ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating the Company and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our Common Stock. Investing in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should be able to bear the complete loss of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our Common Stock. 26 Operational Risks The growth of our Company is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of our video communication services. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenues generated from our video phone and digital voice and video phone services. In turn, the success of these products and services depends upon, among other things, future demand for VoIP (digital phone service) and video telephony systems and services. Because the use of our products and service requires that the user be a subscriber to an existing broadband Internet service, usually provided through a cable, digital subscriber line, fiber to the home or a wireless network, slow or limited adoption and availability of broadband services could adversely affect the growth in our sales of video phones, our subscriber base and revenues. Although the number of broadband subscribers worldwide has grown significantly over the last five years, VoIP and video telephony has not yet been adopted by a majority of consumers. To increase the deployment of broadband Internet services from broadband Internet service providers, telephone companies and cable companies must continue to invest in the deployment of high speed broadband networks to residential and business customers, over which we have no control. In addition, VoIP networks must improve quality of service for real-time communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss, and unreliable bandwidth, so that toll-quality service can be consistently provided. VoIP and video telephony equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability that users of the PSTN have come to expect from their telephone service, and the cost and feature benefits of VoIP and video telephony must be sufficient to cause customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. We will need to devote substantial resources to educate customers and end users about the benefits of VoIP and video telephony solutions, in general, and our products and services in particular. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our business may be affected adversely. Certain aspects of our digital voice and video phone service are not the same as traditional telephone service, which may limit the acceptance of our digital voice and video phone services by mainstream consumers and may limit our potential for growth. For certain users, certain aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service. Our continued growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers, so these differences are important. For example: · Both our E-911 and emergency calling services are different, in significant respects, from the 911 service associated with traditional wireline and wireless telephone providers and, in certain cases, with other VoIP providers. · Our customers may experience lower call quality than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies, including static, echoes and delays in transmissions. · Our customers may experience higher dropped-call rates than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies. · Customers who obtain new phone numbers from us do not appear in the phone book and their phone numbers are not available through directory assistance services offered by traditional telephone companies. · Our customers cannot accept collect calls. · Our customers cannot call premium-rate telephone numbers such as 1-900 numbers and 976 numbers. · In the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption experienced by a customer, our service is interrupted. Unlike some of our competitors, we have not installed batteries at customer premises to provide emergency power for our customers’ equipment if they lose power, although we do have backup power systems for our network equipment and service platform. 27 If customers do not accept the differences between our digital voice and video phone service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. Competition related to our digital voice and video phone services is substantial. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies and alternative voice communication providers. Our principal competitors are the traditional telephone service providers, including AT&T, Qwest Communications and Verizon Communications, and rural incumbents such as CenturyLink and Frontier Communications, which provide telephone service based on the public switched telephone network. Some of these traditional providers also have added VoIP services to their existing telephone and broadband offerings. We also face competition from cable companies, such as Cablevision, Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, and Time Warner Cable, which have added VoIP services to their existing cable television, voice and broadband offerings. Further, as wireless providers, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless, offer more minutes at lower prices and companion landline alternative services, their services have become more attractive to households as a replacement for wireline service. Most traditional wireline and wireless telephone service providers and cable companies are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of a large existing customer base. Because most of our target customers are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success with our digital voice and video phone services offering is dependent upon our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers. Our competitors’ financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. Our competitors also could use their greater financial resources to offer VoIP services with more attractive service packages that include on-site installation and more robust customer service. In addition, because of the other services our competitors provide, they may choose to offer VoIP services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as video, high speed Internet access and wireless telephone service, which we do not offer. This bundle may enable our competitors to offer VoIP service at prices with which we may not be able to compete or to offer functionality that integrates VoIP service with their other offerings, both of which may be more desirable to consumers. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete and reduce our market share and revenues. We also compete against alternative voice communication providers, such as Skype, iChat, MagicJack, Google Voice and independent VoIP service providers. Some of these service providers may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share and have offered their services at lower prices or for free. Google, Apple, Microsoft and Yahoo! also offer free instant messaging services that are voice enabled. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to reduce our prices, which would delay or prevent our profitability. We also are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice or video services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us. 28 Given our limited experience in delivering VoIP services, we may not be able to operate successfully or expand this part of our business. During the second half of 2009, we accelerated initiatives to become a provider of VoIP services. Our experience in providing VoIP services is limited. Our primary competitors include incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, alternative voice communication providers and wireless companies that have a significant national or international presence. Many of these operators have substantially greater resources, capital and operational experience than we do. Therefore, future operations involving our VoIP services may not succeed in the competitive environment, and we may not be able to expand successfully; we may experience margin pressure; we may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability; we may have limited resources to develop and to market the new services; and we have heightened difficulty in establishing future revenues or results. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will maintain or increase revenues or be able to generate sufficient income from operations or net income in the future or on any predictable or timely basis. Our success also depends on third parties in our distribution channels. We currently sell our products and services through our direct, agency, wholesale and OEM direct distribution channels. Agreements with distribution partners generally provide for one-time or recurring commissions, and generally do not require minimum purchases. In addition, distributors and resellers may not dedicate sufficient resources or give sufficient priority to selling our products and services. Our failure to develop new distribution channels, the loss of a distribution relationship or a decline in the efforts of a material reseller or distributor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The extent and timing of revenues from our digital voice and video phone service and next generation video phone is not certain. While we expect revenues related to our new product and service offerings to begin in the second quarter of 2010, the extent and timing of revenues for our digital voice and video phone services and next generation video phones depends on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our products and services, the degree of competition from similar products, and our ability to access funding necessary to provide the ability to roll out product and services. We cannot predict to what extent our digital voice and video phone services and next generation video phones will produce revenues, or when, or if, we will reach profitability. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and very high volatility and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. A substantial portion of our digital voice and video phone services revenues comes from residential and small office and home office customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. If the weakening economy continues to deteriorate, the growth of our business and results of operations may be more impacted. Economic conditions may cause more households to rely solely on a mobile phone for home telecommunications and eliminate landline connections. In addition, reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer certain services at promotional prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 29 A high rate of customer terminations would negatively affect our business by reducing our revenue or requiring us to spend more money to grow our customer base. Our rate of customer terminations, or average monthly customer turnover, could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with the quality and reliability of our network, products and core operational platforms and our customer service. Other factors, including increased competition from other providers, disruptive technologies, general economic conditions and our ability to properly activate and register new customers on the network, also influence our customer turnover rate. Because of customer turnover, we have to acquire new customers on an ongoing basis just to maintain our existing level of customers and revenues. As a result, marketing expense is an ongoing requirement of our business. If our customer turnover rate increases, we will have to acquire even more new customers in order to maintain our existing revenues. We incur significant costs to acquire new customers, and those costs are an important factor in determining our net losses and achieving future profitability. Therefore, if we are unsuccessful in retaining customers or are required to spend significant amounts to acquire new customers beyond those budgeted, our revenue could decrease and our operating results could be negatively impacted. Flaws in our technology and systems could cause delays or interruptions of digital voice and video phone services, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our service may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems, such as malfunctions in our or our partners’ software or other facilities and overloading of our partners’ network. Our customers and potential customers subscribing to our digital voice and video phone services may experience interruptions as a result of these types of problems. Interruptions may cause us to lose customers or potential customers and offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, because our systems and our customers’ ability to use our services are Internet-dependent, our services may be subject to “hacker attacks” from the Internet, which could have a significant impact on our systems and services. If service interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our digital voice and video phone services, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our brand reputation and growth may suffer. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to maintain data security and meet Payment Card Industry data security standards. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Any failure to maintain the security of our data and our employees’ and customers’ confidential information, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential information, could result in financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs. Any such failure also could put us at a competitive disadvantage and result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our network, systems and procedures are required to meet Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, which requires periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. PCI data security standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and VISA, to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. Failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines. Restrictions on accepting payment cards, including a complete restriction, may be imposed on companies that are not compliant. 30 Our credit card processors have the ability to take significant holdbacks or propose reserves in certain circumstances. The initiation of such holdbacks or reserves likely would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our credit card processors may establish reserves to cover any exposure that they may have as we collect revenue in advance of providing services to our customers, which is a customary credit card processor practice with respect to companies that bill their customers in advance of providing services. Under our credit card processing agreements with our Visa/MasterCard, American Express and Discover credit card processors, the credit card processor has the right, in certain circumstances, including adverse events affecting our business, to impose a holdback of our advanced payments purchased using a Visa/MasterCard, American Express or Discover credit card, as applicable, or demand reserves or other security. If our processors initiate a holdback or impose reserves, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. In addition, each of our credit card processing agreements may be terminated by the credit card processor at its discretion. If the credit card processor does not assist in transitioning our business to another credit card processor, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. Our success also depends on our ability to handle a large number of simultaneous calls, which our network may not be able to accommodate. We expect the volume of simultaneous calls, including video calls, to increase significantly as our subscriber base grows. The network hardware and software provided by D3 may not be able to accommodate this additional volume. If we fail to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, or if our service is disrupted, our reputation could be hurt and we could lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our ability to provide our digital voice and video phone services is dependent upon third-party facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable digital voice and video phone service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer’s Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer’s broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. We also outsource our network functions to D3. If D3 fails to maintain its network properly, or fails to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities may cause us to lose customers, or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the actual or perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand, reputation and growth will be negatively impacted. If D3 ceases providing the services that we depend on, the delay in switching our technology to another network service provider, if available, and qualifying this new service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. While we believe that relations with D3 are good and we have contracts in place, there can be no assurance that D3 will be able or willing to supply cost-effective services to us in the future or that we will be successful in arranging for alternative or additional providers. While we believe that we could replace D3, if necessary, our ability to provide service to our subscribers could be impacted during this timeframe, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 31 We rely on third parties to provide our customer service representatives, provide inventory logistics, initiate local number portability for our customers and provide aspects of our E-911 service. If these third parties do not provide our customers with reliable, high-quality service, our reputation will be harmed and we may lose customers. We offer our customers support 24 hours a day, seven days a week through our online account management website and during extended hours through our toll free customer support number. We rely on a third party in Toronto, Canada to provide customer service representatives that respond to customer inquiries. This third-party provider generally represents us without identifying themselves as an independent party. The ability of this third party provider to provide these representatives may be disrupted by factors not within our control, such as financial viability of the third party, strikes, natural disasters and other adverse events. Through the D3 Agreement, D3 provides us access to an E-911 provider to assist us in routing emergency calls directly to an emergency service dispatcher at the public safety answering point (“PSAP”) in the area of the customer’s registered location. Interruptions in service from these vendors could cause failures in our customers’ access to E-911 services and expose us to liability and damage our reputation. Through the D3 Agreement, D3 also provides us access to a third-party provider that initiates our local number portability, which allows new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our digital voice and video phone services. In addition, we utilize a third party to provide logistics support for our inventory of video phones and analog telephone adaptors. If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services. We depend on Kenmec, our contract manufacturer, to manufacture substantially all of our video phone products, and any delay or interruption in manufacturing by Kenmec or shortage or lack of availability of components would result in delayed or reduced shipments to our customers and may harm our business. We do not have long-term purchase agreements with Kenmec and we depend on Kenmec to manufacture our video phone products. There can be no assurance that Kenmec will be able or willing to reliably manufacture our video phone products, in volumes, on a cost-effective basis or in a timely manner. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of Kenmec, or if Kenmec experiences financial or other difficulties in their business, our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. In particular, if Kenmec becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, we may not be able to obtain any of our products held by Kenmec. We also rely on third party component suppliers to provide semiconductor circuit packages for our video phone products. In some instances, these components are provided by a single supplier. Our reliance on these suppliers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. Kenmec manages our third party component suppliers. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these component vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third party vendors to deliver components of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, particularly the sole source vendors, could adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fluctuate more than anticipated. Additionally, some of our products may require specialized or high-performance component parts that may not be available in quantities or in time frames that meet our requirements. 32 The success of our business partly relies on customers’ continued and unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our products or services or charge their customers more for also using our products or services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. Our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our digital voice and video phone services and video phones. Some providers of broadband access may take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our products and services, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our products or services. It is not clear whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our products and services without interference. Providers of broadband services are subject to relatively light regulation by the FCC. Consequently, federal and state regulators might not prohibit broadband providers from limiting their customers’ access to using video phones or VoIP or otherwise discriminating against video phone or VoIP providers. Interference with our products or services or higher charges for also using our products or services could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These problems could also arise in international markets. Because much of our potential success and value lies in our use of internally developed systems and software, if we fail to protect them, it could negatively affect us. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in large part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally. While we have two issued patents and one pending patent application that were developed internally, we cannot patent much of the technology that is important to our business. To date, we have relied on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. We typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors in an effort to control access to and distribution of technology, software, documentation and other information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use this technology without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of this technology is difficult. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions outside the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 33 The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. If we do not adjust to meet changing market conditions, including if we do not have adequate resources to do so, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We need to retain key personnel to support our products and ongoing operations. The development and marketing of our products and services will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, including our key engineering personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. None of our officers or key employees are bound by employment agreements for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products and services which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. We may not be able to manage our inventory levels effectively, which may lead to inventory obsolescence that would force us to incur inventory write-downs. Our video phone products have lead times of up to several months and are built to forecasts that are necessarily imprecise. Because of our practice of building our products to necessarily imprecise forecasts, it is likely that from time to time we will have either excess or insufficient product inventory. In addition, because we rely on third party vendors for the supply of components and contract manufacturers to assemble our products, our inventory levels are subject to the conditions regarding the timing of purchase orders and delivery dates that are not within our control. Excess inventory levels would subject us to the risk of inventory obsolescence, while insufficient levels of inventory may negatively affect relations with customers. Our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates, and any disruption in the supply of our products could result in legal action from our customers, loss of customers or harm to our ability to attract new customers. In addition, we are managing the remaining inventory of our original video phone and a third-party developed video phone currently used in our digital voice and video phone service in anticipation of the availability of our next generation video phone. Failure to sell these video phones could result in inventory obsolescence and substantial write-offs by the Company. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 34 We may not be able to meet our product development objectives or market expectations. Our video phone products are complex and use “state of the art” technology. Accordingly, our development efforts are inherently difficult to manage and keep on schedule and there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our development objectives or market expectations. In addition to development delays, we may experience substantial cost overruns in completing development of our product. The technological feasibility for some aspects of the products that we envision is not completely established. Our products may contain undetected flaws. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us and by potential customers, flaws will not be found in the product, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. We may be unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing customer requirements. Further, there can be no assurance that a competitor will not introduce a similar product. The introduction by a competitor of either a similar product or a superior alternative to our product, may diminish our technological advantage, render our product and technologies partially or wholly obsolete, or require substantial re-engineering of our product in order to become commercially acceptable. Our failure to maintain our product development schedules, avoid cost overruns and undetected errors or introduce a product that is superior to competing products would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which was remediated as of September 30, 2009 and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future that may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements of our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our management determined as of December 31, 2008 that the Company had a material weakness related to the lack of internal GAAP expertise to assist with the accounting and reporting of complex financial transactions. The limited resources of the Company as well as the Company’s focus and efforts toward keeping the Company solvent contributed to the material weakness. As a result, our management concluded that as of December 31, 2008, its disclosure controls and procedures were not designed properly and were not effective in ensuring that the information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that we file and submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission’s rules and forms. In an effort to remediate the reported material weakness related to the lack of internal GAAP expertise to assist with the accounting and reporting of complex financial transactions, we undertook a number of actions to eliminate the material weakness. Based on the remedial actions taken, the Company concluded that as of September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009 it had effective controls through the adoption of new processes and procedures to ensure timely and thorough research and evaluation of accounting and reporting of complex financial transactions. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm the market value of our Common Stock. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls also could impair our ability to manage our business and harm our financial results. 35 Litigation and Regulatory Risks We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of our company. Given the rapid technological change in our industry and our continual development of new products and services, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims in the future. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that the technologies we use infringe their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and issued patents that could include claims covering our products and services. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our products and services and could cause us to pay substantial royalties, licensing fees or damages. The defense of any lawsuit could divert management’s efforts and attention from the ordinary business operations and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims. If we are forced to defend against any third-party infringement claims, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation and be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any conduct or technologies that are found to be infringing. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing technology, which could be costly and time-consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, which could materially harm our business. These outcomes may: · result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers; · lead to an event of default under the terms of our Revolving Loan with WGI, which could permit WGI to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the Revolving Loan, including principal and accrued interest and take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness; · cause existing or new vendors to require prepayments or letters of credit; · cause our credit card processors to demand additional reserves or letters of credit or make holdbacks; · result in substantial employee layoffs; · materially and adversely affect our brand in the market place and cause a substantial loss of goodwill; · cause our stock price to decline significantly or otherwise cause us to fail to meet the continued listing requirements of any exchange on which our securities may be traded, which could distract management and result in the delisting of our Common Stock from the exchange; · materially and adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay debts and other obligations as they become due; and 36 · lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and worker health and safety laws may be costly and noncompliance with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. We could be subject to increased costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we violate or become liable under environmental and/or worker health and safety laws. We may be subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (EU RoHS)). The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, labeling, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for enacting and implementing this directive by individual European Union governments was August 13, 2004 (WEEE Legislation), although extensions were granted in some countries. Producers became financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU RoHS or WEEE Legislation. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and develop new strategies for the design of new products to utilize components which are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in delays in product design and manufacture and could cause us to incur additional costs. We cannot assure you that the costs to comply with these laws, or with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, expenses and financial condition. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 37 We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and radio frequency transmission equipment and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Regulation of VoIP services is developing and therefore uncertain, and future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability. The United States and other countries have begun to assert regulatory authority over VoIP and are continuing to evaluate how VoIP will be regulated in the future. Both the application of existing rules to us and our competitors and the effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. If we become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers in individual states, we may incur significant litigation and compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our digital voice and video phone service offerings, exit certain markets or raise the price of our digital voice and video phone services, any of which could cause our digital voice and video phone services to be less attractive to customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. In addition, because customers can use our services almost anywhere that a broadband Internet connection is available, including countries where providing VoIP services is illegal, the governments of those countries may attempt to assert jurisdiction over us, which could expose us to significant liability and regulation. If we are unable to improve our process for local number portability provisioning, our growth may be negatively affected. We support local number portability (“LNP”) for our customers, which allows our customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services. We have engaged D3 to handle the manual process of transferring numbers, which, in the past, has taken D3 from two to four weeks or longer, although D3 has taken steps to automate this process to reduce the delay. A new customer of our services must maintain both our digital voice and video phone service and the customer’s existing telephone service during the number transfer process. By comparison, transferring wireless telephone numbers among wireless service providers generally takes several hours, and transferring wireline telephone numbers among traditional wireline service providers generally takes a few days. The additional delay that D3 experiences is due to its reliance on third party carriers to transfer the numbers, as well as the delay the existing telephone service provider may contribute to the process. Local number portability is considered an important feature by many potential customers and, if we fail to reduce related delays, we may experience increased difficulty in acquiring new customers or retaining existing customers. Moreover, the FCC now requires interconnected VoIP providers, like us, to comply with industry standard timeframes and a new FCC order shortens the timeframe for certain types of ports considerably. If we are unable to process ports within the requisite timeframes, we could be subject to fines and/or penalties. 38 Our emergency and E-911 calling services may expose us to significant liability. The FCC rules for the provision of 911 service by interconnected VoIP providers, such as the digital voice and video phone service we provide, require that for all geographic areas covered by the traditional wireline E-911 network, interconnected VoIP providers must provide E-911 service as defined by the FCC’s rules. Under the FCC’s rules, E-911 service means that interconnected VoIP providers must transmit the caller’s telephone number and registered location information to the PSAP for the caller’s registered location. We only accept subscribers to which we can provide E-911 service. There are a variety of reasons that potential subscribers may not have access to E-911 service, including refusal by PSAPs to accept VoIP 911 calls, the inability of PSAPs to receive the registered location data from us, and the failure by third party companies with whom we contract to provide the necessary access or complete implementation of the necessary interfaces to the traditional wireline E-911 infrastructure. In addition, it is a subscriber’s responsibility to notify us of any change in the location where they use the service. Without such notice, if a subscriber uses our digital voice and video phone services at locations other than their registered E-911 location, any 911 calls made by the subscriber will not be routed to the proper PSAP. Delays our customers may encounter when making emergency services calls and any inability of a PSAP to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number can have negative consequences. Customers may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. In July 2008, the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008 became law and provided that interconnected VoIP providers have the same protections from liability for the operation of 911 service as traditional wireline and wireless providers. Limitations on liability for the provision of 911 service are normally governed by state law and these limitations typically are not absolute. Thus, for example, we could be subject to liability for a problem with our 911 service where our failures are greater than mere negligence. There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with the requirements of federal and other regulations related to Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”). As an interconnected VOIP provider, we are subject to the CPNI rules. CPNI includes information that appears on customers’ bills such as called telephone numbers, the frequency, duration, time and length of calls; and any services or features purchased by the consumer, like caller ID. Pursuant to the CPNI rules, interconnected VOIP providers may not use CPNI without obtaining customer consent except in limited circumstances. Moreover, interconnected VOIP providers are required to adhere to particular customer approval processes when using CPNI outside of pre-defined limits. The CPNI requirements are also aimed at establishing more stringent security measures for access to a customer’s CPNI data in the form of required passwords for on-line access and call-in access to account information as well as customer notification of account or password changes. At the present time, we do not utilize our customer’s CPNI in a manner which would require us to obtain consent from our customers but, in the event that we do in the future, we will be required to adhere to specific CPNI rules aimed at marketing such services. Accordingly, we have implemented internal processes in order to comply with the FCC’s CPNI rules. Our failure to achieve compliance with any future CPNI orders, rules, filings or standards, or any enforcement action initiated by the FCC or other agency, state or task force against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 39 We may be exposed to liability resulting from FCC orders regarding access for people with disabilities. On June 15, 2007, the FCC applied the disability access requirements of Sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act to providers of interconnected VOIP services, like us, and to equipment manufacturers that make equipment to use with those services. Section 255 of the Communications Act requires, if readily achievable, service providers to ensure that its equipment and service is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. Where readily achievable, the relevant regulations also require service providers to ensure that information and documentation provided in connection with equipment or services be accessible to people with disabilities and that employee training account for accessibility requirements. In addition, the FCC said that interconnected VOIP providers were subject to the requirements of Section 225, including contributing to the Telecommunications Relay Services fund and that they must offer 711 abbreviated dialing for access to relay services. We may be subject to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties for failure to comply with these rules, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with the requirements of federal law enforcement agencies. As an interconnected VoIP provider, we are required to comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”). The FCC allowed VoIP providers to comply with CALEA through the use of a solution provided by a trusted third party with the ability to extract call content and call-identifying information from a VoIP provider’s network. While the FCC permits carriers to use such a trusted third party, the interconnected VoIP provider remains ultimately responsible for ensuring the timely delivery of call content and call-identifying information to law enforcement, and for protecting subscriber privacy, as required by CALEA. Given their access to the network, we use D3 as our trusted third party to facilitate compliance with CALEA. However, we could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC or law enforcement agencies for failure by D3, on our behalf, to comply with any current or future CALEA obligations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected or our retail prices may rise due to increased regulation or the imposition of additional taxes, fees and surcharges. The FCC mandated the collection of regulatory fees from interconnected VOIP service providers like us based on reported interstate and international revenues. We cannot predict the impact of any future laws, regulations and orders adopted either domestically or abroad on our operations and services. But increased regulation and the imposition of additional taxes, fees and surcharges increases the costs associated with providing our service and such taxes, fees and surcharges may or may not be recoverable from our customers. If we choose to absorb such costs, our profit margins would likely decrease. Moreover, even if such costs are recoverable or if we choose to maintain profitability, we may need to increase the retail price of our service that could result in making our service less competitive both with other providers of interconnected VOIP service providers and traditional providers of telecommunications services. The net effect could reduce the number of our subscribers, our revenue and our profit margin, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 40 Decreasing telecommunications rates and increasing regulatory charges may diminish or eliminate our competitive pricing advantage. Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate the competitive pricing advantage of our services. Increased regulation and the imposition of additional regulatory funding obligations at the federal, state and local level could require us to either increase the retail price for our services, thus making us less competitive, or absorb such costs, thus decreasing our profit margins. We pass Universal Service and E-911 fees and taxes and sales, use and communications taxes onto our customers. Users who select our services to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications rates and our rates may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers if pricing differentials diminish or disappear, and we will be unable to use pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. Continued rate decreases would require us to lower our rates to remain competitive and would reduce or possibly eliminate any gross profit from our services or result in the loss of subscribers for our services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may incur significant costs and harm to our reputation from lawsuits and regulatory inquiries related to our business practices, which may also divert the attention of our management from other aspects of our business. Class action litigation and regulatory inquiries are often expensive and time consuming and their outcome may be uncertain. Any such claims or regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. We may need to spend significant amounts on our legal defense, senior management may be required to divert their attention from other portions of our business, new product launches may be deferred or canceled as a result of any proceedings, and we may be required to make changes to our present and planned products or services. If, as a result of any proceedings, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation. Technology that we license from third parties may not provide us with the benefits we expect and loss of the ability to license certain technologies may result in delays in product development and sales. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently utilized by us or other technology which we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, and could harm our business. These licenses are on standard commercial terms made generally available by the companies providing the licenses. To date, the cost and terms of these licenses individually has not been material to our business. Financing and Capital Risks We may need to raise additional capital to support our future operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents and investments of approximately $578. Based on management’s internal forecasts and assumptions regarding our short term cash requirements, the increase in and full utilization of the expanded credit line of the Revolving Loan (See Note 9 and Note 16 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements), the planned completion of the development of our new voice and video phone and the commencement of delivery of these new video phones expected in May 2010, the expected placement of purchase orders for the purchase of units by ACN DPS in accordance with the ACN Master Purchase Agreement as amended by the MPA Agreement (See Note 3 and Note 16 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements), and our current forecast for other sales of product and services, we currently believe that we will have sufficient working capital to support our current operating plans through at least December 31, 2010 (See Note 2 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements). However, there can be no assurance given that these assumptions are correct or that the revenue projections associated with sales of products and services will materialize to a level that will support our current operating plans, provide us with sufficient capital or that sales will be sustainable over the short and long term so as to obviate the need for additional funding. 41 If we do need to raise additional capital, we may not be able to obtain such additional financing as needed on acceptable terms, or at all, which may require us to reduce our operating costs and other expenditures, including reductions of personnel and capital expenditures. Because of our significant losses to date and our limited tangible assets, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets. In addition, the credit documentation for our Revolving Loan and Security Agreement with WGI contains affirmative and negative covenants that affect, and in many respects may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur, prepay, refinance or modify indebtedness and create liens. If we issue additional equity or convertible debt securities to raise funds, the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders would be reduced and they may experience significant dilution. New investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our Common Stock. If we are not successful in these actions, we may be forced to reduce the size of our organization which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have incurred yearly losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur losses in the future. For the period from our inception through December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $275,745. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our net loss was $6,336. Our net losses were driven primarily by minimal sales volume and substantial product development costs. We ultimately may not be successful in achieving profitability at any point in the future. Our common stockholders may suffer dilution in the future upon exercise of the Anti-Dilution Warrant by WGI and the ACN 2009 and 2010 Warrants. In connection with the closing on April 6, 2009 of the transactions contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement with WGI, we issued the Anti-Dilution Warrant to WGI, which entitles WGI to purchase up to 129,655,979 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share to the extent we issue any capital stock upon the exercise or conversion of any Existing Contingent Equity, Future Contingent Equity, or the ACN 2009 Warrant. On March 9, 2010, we also issued WGI a warrant to purchase 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock in connection with the amendment of the Revolving Loan Agreement. The Anti-Dilution Warrant is designed to ensure that WGI may maintain 63% of our issued and outstanding shares of capital stock in the event that any of our capital stock is issued in respect to the Existing Contingent Equity, the Future Contingent Equity or the ACN 2009 Warrant (i.e., upon each issuance of a share pursuant to Existing Contingent Equity, Future Contingent Equity or the ACN 2009 Warrant, the Anti-Dilution Warrant may be exercised for 1.7027027 shares). The term of the Anti-Dilution Warrant is ten years from the date of issuance, and the shares subject to the Anti-Dilution Warrant will be decreased proportionally upon the expiration of Existing Contingent Equity, Future Contingent Equity and the ACN 2009 Warrant. In addition, in connection with the closing on April 6, 2009 of the transactions contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement with WGI, we granted ACN DPS a warrant to purchase up to approximately 38,219,897 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.0425 per share. 42 On March 30, 2010, in connection with the MPA Amendment, we granted to ACN DPS a warrant to purchase up to 3 million shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.0425 per share. The warrants granted to ACN DPS will vest incrementally based on ACN DPS’s purchases of video phones under the Master Purchase Agreement. If the warrants held by WGI or ACN DPS are exercised, our stockholders may experience significant and immediate dilution. WGI, as our majority stockholder, has the ability to exert a controlling influence over us. As of December 31, 2009, WGI owned a majority of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, WGI is able to exert a controlling influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including composition of our board of directors and, through it, our direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; potential mergers, acquisitions, sales of assets and other significant corporate transactions; future issuances of capital stock or other securities by us; incurrence of debt by us; amendments, waivers and modifications to any agreements between us and WGI; payment of dividends on our capital stock; and approval of our business plans and general business development. In addition, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Common Stock as part of a sale of our Company or result in strategic decisions that could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our outstanding stock. WGI also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and WGI concerning, among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. WGI is not restricted from competitive activities or investments. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of WGI will coincide with the interests of other holders of Common Stock. Also, four of our seven directors are affiliated with WGI. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence the management of our company is limited, which could have could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. The ownership of WGI includes owners of ACN, and we have engaged, and may in the future further engage, in commercial transactions with ACN and its affiliated entities. WGI is a private investment fund whose ownership includes owners of ACN. Several of the members of our board of directors currently serve as officers and/or directors of ACN. Because ACN is a direct seller of telecommunications services, we may seek to engage in commercial transactions to provide services to ACN and its subsidiaries in the future, as demonstrated by the Master Purchase Agreement for 300,000 video phones. Although we expect that the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of ACN and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the Audit Committee on our board of directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us as might otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. 43 We will be required under applicable accounting guidelines to report significant reductions in the revenue we recognize from sales of our products to ACN and its subsidiaries. Current accounting principles require that revenue generated as result of the commercial relationship with ACN DPS entered into in April 2009 be reduced to reflect the extent that the ACN Warrants are determined to be consideration given by a vendor to a customer for which an otherwise identifiable benefit has not been received. The Company will record a charge for the fair value of the portion of the ACN Warrants earned from the point in time when shipments of units are initiated to ACN DPS through the vesting date. Final determination of fair value of the ACN Warrants will occur upon actual vesting. Applicable accounting guidance requires that the fair value of the ACN Warrants be recorded as a reduction of revenue to the extent of probable cumulative revenue recorded from ACN DPS. As a result, investors may not see the revenue expected from our business and this could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We may be unable to fully realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards may be subject to annual limitations as a result of prior, current or future changes in ownership and tax law as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). It is more likely than not that we experienced the following changes of control resulting in the limitations in net operating loss carryforwards: (1) during October 2008, as a result of the aggregation of shares related to the conversion of the convertible debenture into shares of Common Stock by the convertible debenture holder and (2) during April 2009, as a result of the private placement pursuant to which WGI acquired shares of Common Stock representing 63% of our outstanding Common Stock. The NOL carryforward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the change in ownership. If a change in ownership was determined to have occurred, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset future taxable income. In general, a change in ownership occurs when, as of any testing date, there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of the corporation held by 5% stockholders of more than 50 percentage points over an applicable three-year period. For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during an applicable three-year period has owned 5% or more of our outstanding Common Stock. In addition, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding Common Stock are grouped together as one or more “public group” 5% stockholders. Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly (though intervening entities) and constructively (by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group). Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period and may be difficult to predict. Our historical operating results have fluctuated significantly and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, and a decline in our operating results could cause our stock price to fall. On an annual and a quarterly basis, there are a number of factors that may affect our operating results, many of which are outside our control. These include, but are not limited to, changes in market demand; the timing of customer orders; customer cancellations; competitive market conditions; lengthy sales cycles; new product introductions by us or our competitors; market acceptance of new or existing products; the cost and availability of components; the mix of our customer base and sales channels; the mix of products sold; the management of inventory; continued compliance with industry standards and regulatory requirements; the impact of any financing we may obtain; and general economic conditions. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the price of our Common Stock would likely decline significantly. 44 The market price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and purchasers of our Common Stock could incur substantial losses. Securities markets experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic conditions, could cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our Common Stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price of our shares. These factors include judgments in our litigation, changes in our earnings or variations in operating results, any shortfall in revenue or increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts, changes in regulatory policies or tax law, operating performance of companies comparable to us; and general economic trends and other external factors. If any of these factors causes the price of our Common Stock to fall, investors may not be able to sell their Common Stock at or above their respective purchase prices. Our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may increase the volatility of our stock and make it harder to sell shares of our stock. On October 4, 2007, our Common Stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and on October 10, 2007, it commenced being quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which tends to be a highly illiquid market. There is a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board (as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system), as a result of which stockholders may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our securities. Thus, stockholders may be required to either sell our securities at a market price which is lower than their purchase price or to hold our securities for a longer period of time than they planned. Because our Common Stock falls under the definition of “penny stock,” trading in our Common Stock may be limited because broker-dealers are required to provide their customers with disclosure documents prior to allowing them to participate in transactions involving our Common Stock. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors; and require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. As a result, the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our Common Stock might decline, and stockholders could find it more difficult to sell their stock. Our board of directors’ right to authorize additional shares of preferred stock could adversely impact the rights of holders of our Common Stock. Our board of directors currently has the right to designate and authorize the issuance of one or more series of our preferred stock with such voting, dividend and other rights as our directors may determine. The board of directors can designate new series of preferred stock without the approval of the holders of our Common Stock. The rights of holders of our Common Stock may be adversely affected by the rights of any holders of shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, including, without limitation, dilution of the equity ownership percentage of our holders of Common Stock and their voting power if we issue preferred stock with voting rights. Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. ITEM 