D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the PRC Changes in the Economic Policies of the PRC Government may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Since the late 1970s, the PRC Government has been reforming the Chinese economic system. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. These policies and measures, however, may from time to time be modified or revised. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in China, in the policies of the PRC Government or in the laws and regulations of China, if any, may have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and investments in the domestic airline industry. These developments, in turn, may have material adverse effects on our business operations and may also materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay any dividends or to satisfy our foreign exchange liabilities. A significant portion of our revenue and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our revenue, capital expenditures and debts are denominated in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the current account, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign currency transactions, but not under the capital account, which includes foreign direct investment, unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. As a foreign invested enterprise approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOC, we can purchase foreign currency without the approval of SAFE for settlement of current account transactions, including payment of dividends, by providing commercial documents evidencing these transactions. We can also retain foreign exchange in our current accounts, subject to a maximum amount approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign currency liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC Government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Foreign currency transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from SAFE. This may affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends, if any, or satisfy our foreign exchange liabilities. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate significantly and is affected by, among other things, the domestic and international economies, political conditions and the supply and demand of currency. On July 21, 2005, the PRC Government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy resulted in an appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar of approximately 6.9% in 2007 and 7.0% in 2008. There was no material appreciation of the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar in 2009. In May 2007, the PRC Government widened the daily trading band of the Renminbi against a basket of certain foreign currencies from 0.3% to 0.5%. It is possible that the PRC Government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant revaluations of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. - 4 - - We operate our business in many countries and territories. We generate revenue in different currencies, and our foreign currency liabilities at the end of the period are typically much higher than our foreign currency assets. Our purchases and leases of aircraft are mainly priced and settled in currencies such as U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates will affect our costs incurred from foreign purchases such as aircraft, flight equipment and aviation fuel, and take-off and landing charges in foreign airports. Where fluctuations in exchange rates are significant, the exchange losses resulting from the translation of foreign currency denominated liabilities would be greater and would affect the profitability and development of our Company. Any withdrawal of, or changes to, tax incentives in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Prior to January 1, 2008, except for a number of preferential tax treatment schemes available to various enterprises, industries and locations, business enterprises in China were subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 33% under the relevant PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. On March 16, 2007, China passed a new enterprise income tax law, or the EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law imposes a uniform income tax rate of 25% for domestic enterprises and foreign invested enterprises. Business enterprises enjoying preferential tax treatment that was extended for a fixed term prior to January 1, 2008 will still be entitled to such treatment until such fixed term expires. Certain of our subsidiaries are entitled to preferential tax treatment, allowing us to enjoy a lower effective tax rate that would not otherwise be available to us. To the extent that there are any withdrawals of, or changes in, our preferential tax treatment, or increases in the applicable effective tax rate, our tax liability may increase correspondingly. Uncertainties embodied in the PRC legal system may limit certain legal protection available to investors. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC Government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Legislation over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protection afforded to foreign investment in China. However, the interpretation and enforcement of some of these laws, regulations and other legal requirements involve uncertainties that may limit the legal protection available to investors. Risks Relating to the Aviation Industry Our business is subject to extensive government regulation. The Chinese civil aviation industry is subject to a high degree of regulation by the CAAC. Regulatory policies issued or implemented by the CAAC encompass virtually every aspect of airline operations, including, among other things: · route allocation; · pricing of domestic airfares; · the administration of air traffic control systems and certain airports; and · aircraft registration and aircraft airworthiness certification. - 5 - - As a result, we may face significant constraints on our flexibility and ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability. Our operations are dependent on Chinese aviation infrastructure, which is currently under development and may be insufficient. The rapid increase in air traffic volume in China in recent years has put pressure on many components of the Chinese airline industry, including air traffic control systems, the availability of qualified flight personnel and airport facilities. Our ability to provide safe air transportation depends on the availability of qualified and experienced pilots in China and the improvement of maintenance services, national air traffic control and navigational systems and ground control operations at Chinese airports. If any of these is not available or is inadequate, our ability to provide safe air transportation will be compromised and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations tend to be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality. Our operating revenue is substantially dependent on the passenger and cargo traffic volume carried, which is subject to seasonal and other changes in traffic patterns, the availability of appropriate time slots for the Group’s flights and alternative routes, the degree of competition from other airlines and alternate means of transportation, as well as other factors that may influence passenger travel demand and cargo and mail volume. In particular, the Group’s airline revenue is generally higher in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters. As a result, the Company’s results tend to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. Limitations on foreign ownership of PRC airline companies may affect our access to capital markets finding or business opportunities. The current CAAC policies limit foreign ownership in Chinese airlines. Under these limits, non-Chinese residents and Hong Kong, Macau or Taiwan residents cannot hold a majority equity interest in a Chinese airline company. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 30.99% of our total outstanding shares were held by non-Chinese, Hong Kong, Macau or Taiwan residents or legal entities (excluding the qualified foreign institutional investors that are approved to invest in the A Share market of the PRC). As a result, our access to international equity capital markets may be limited. This restriction may also limit the opportunities available to our Company to obtain funding or other benefits through the creation of equity-based strategic alliances with foreign carriers. We cannot assure you that the CAAC will increase these limits in the near future or at all. Any jet fuel shortages or any increase in domestic or international jet fuel prices may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The availability and cost of aviation fuel has a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, jet fuel shortages have occurred in China and, on limited occasions, required us to delay or cancel flights. Although jet fuel shortages have not occurred since the end of 1993, we cannot assure you that jet fuel shortages will not occur in the future. Fuel prices continue to be susceptible to, among other factors, political unrest in various parts of the world, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries policies, the rapid growth of the economies of certain countries, including China and India, the levels of inventory carried by industries, the amounts of reserves built by governments, disruptions to production and refining facilities and weather conditions. These and other factors that impact the global supply and demand for aviation fuel may affect our financial performance due to its sensitivity to fuel prices. - 6 - - Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our operating costs and, in 2009, accounted for approximately 31.9% of our operating expenses. From 2008 to 2009, our fuel expenses decreased by 33.7%, partially as a result of a decline in weighted average domestic and international fuel prices. From 2008 to 2009, the weighted average fuel prices that we paid decreased by approximately 38.6%. However, domestic and international fuel prices increased at the end of 2009 through the first quarter of 2010 before declining in the second quarter of 2010 and we cannot assure you that fuel prices will not further increase in the future. Due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry and government regulation on airfare pricing, we may be unable to fully or effectively pass on to our customers any increased fuel costs we may encounter in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We face intense competition in each of the domestic, regional and international markets that we serve. In our domestic markets, we compete against all airline companies that have the same routes, including smaller domestic airline companies that operate with costs that are lower than ours. In our regional and international markets, we compete against international airline companies that have significantly longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more resources or larger sales networks than we do, or utilize more developed reservation systems than ours. See the section headed “Item 