D. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations may be impacted by monetary risk. Our portfolio of marketable securities is subject to various market risks. We are exposed to fluctuations in the rate of the United States Dollar and Euro versus the NIS. Most of our income is in NIS, whereas most of our purchases are in United States Dollars and in Euros. In addition, a significant portion of our short term bank borrowings, when needed, are in United States Dollars and/or in Euros. A significant depreciation in the NIS vis-à-vis the United States Dollar and/or Euro could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We strive to minimize market risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations and the cost of imported goods, especially by opening wide documentary credits for suppliers abroad, holding foreign currency reserves and initiating forward transactions and foreign currency options. As a method of investing cash reserves, we hold from time to time a portfolio of marketable securities traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange as well as other stock exchanges and certain bonds traded abroad. This portfolio of marketable securities is subject to various market risks resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency, exchange rates, price fluctuations and other market risks in Israel and abroad. We do not utilize derivative securities for trading purposes, enter into swap arrangements or otherwise hedge our currency in a manner that we believe could expose us to significant market risk. Our financial instruments consist mainly of cash and cash equivalents, current accounts receivable, short-term borrowings, accounts payable and accruals. In view of their nature, the fair value of the financial instruments, included in working capital, is usually identical or close to their book value. Page 4 Our business may be materially affected if any of our major clients defaults on its payment to us. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of trade receivables. Despite our large number of clients (over 1,000 in Israel), a major and significant part of our sales is made to a limited number of customers (mainly the organized market). We generally do not require and do not receive collateral from those customers, although we do require and receive collateral from most of the remainder of its clients to ensure security of collecting payments. We maintain an allowance for doubtful debts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information which our management believes adequately covers all anticipated losses in respect of trade receivables. There can be no assurance that this allowance will be adequate. In the event that any of our major clients defaults on its payment obligations to us, such as Club Market in 2005, we will not possess sufficient security to collect the entire debt. We are dependent on our key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel could have a material effect on our business. We depend on a small number of technical staff, managers and directors, including managing services provided to us by interest holders via companies they control, such as Zvi Williger and Joseph Williger, each of whom holds senior management positions with us. The loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We are subject to regulations and other policies of the Israeli government and of other countries into which we import. If we are unable to obtain and maintain regulatory qualifications or approvals for our products, our business may be adversely affected. Regulatory, licensing and quotas: The import, storage, marketing, distribution and labeling of food products are subject to extensive regulation and licensing by various Israeli government and municipal agencies, principally the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. To the extent that we have imported, or will import, food products outside of Israel, we may be subject to quotas and other import laws and regulations which may limit our ability to sell certain of our food products into these countries. We are required to maintain our distribution processes in conformity with all applicable laws and regulations. In the event that such laws and regulations change, or we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we may be prevented from trading within Israel or another part of the world. Tariffs: The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade and Industry of the State of Israel may increase the levels of tariffs on importing goods. This would have a direct impact on us and our financial performance by increasing our costs which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Kosher Licenses: Under kosher regulations, we are required to ascertain that the foodstuffs which we offer for sale bear kosher certification approved by certain authorities such as the Chief Rabbinate of Israel. There is a risk that the relevant authorities in Israel or other areas of the world responsible for issuing kosher licenses may change the criteria for obtaining such licences. In such circumstances, we may be prohibited from obtaining kosher licences for various products that we sell into the various kosher markets. Failure to comply with such applicable laws and regulations in relation to kosher licences could subject us to civil sanctions, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial performance. We are dependent on Arla Foods amba, or Arla, and we also work with a limited number of other key suppliers. If these suppliers raise prices or terminate their engagement with us, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on Arla, which supplies a high percentage of our dairy and dairy substitute products, although we are not dependent on any single supplier in respect of a majority of our products. Terminating the engagement with any supplier, in particular Arla, or a material change in the engagement terms for purchasing products from those suppliers may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. We have a distribution agreement with Arla pursuant to which we serve as Arla’s sole agent and distributor in Israel of certain products for a five-year period beginning in March 2005. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Suppliers”. We believe that there are alternative suppliers for purchasing our products; however, we cannot assure that the products of the alternative suppliers will become immediately available and that the terms of purchase will be similar to the current ones. Page 5 We depend on a small number of principal clients who have in the past bought our products in large volumes. We cannot assure that these clients or any other client will continue to buy our products in the same volumes, on the same terms or at all. Despite our wide dispersion of clients, we have two major clients,both supermarket chains, who accounted for approximately 26% and 7% respectively of our revenue during 2006. We do not have long term purchase contracts with our clients, and our sales arrangements with our clients do not have minimum purchase requirements. We cannot assure that our major clients will continue to buy our products at all or in the same volumes or on the same terms as they have in the past. Their failure to do so may significantly reduce our sales. Losing one or more of them may adversely affect our business results. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to attract new customers. We may not be able to successfully compete with larger competitors who have greater operations, financial, marketing, human and other resources than we have. The food distribution business in Israel is highly competitive. We face competition from existing competitors in respect of imported as well as locally manufactured food products. Local producers are not subject to the financial risks of importing food products or to governmental policies regarding taxation of imported food products to which we are subject. We believe that we may also face competition from potential newcomers to the food business as well as from existing importers and/or manufacturers not currently involved in the same lines of products as us. In addition, in the event we further expand our activity in the international food markets, we will face also competition from manufacturers and/or distributors from the locations in which we expand our activity. Certain of our current and potential competitors are substantially more established, benefit from substantially greater market recognition and have greater financial, marketing, human and other resources than us. If any of our competitors materially reduces prices, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. Such reductions, if effected, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions in Israel affect our financial performance. Substantially all of our sales are made in Israel, and consequently our financial performance is dependent to a significant extent on the economy of Israel. A deterioration of the economic situation in Israel may erode the real wages and lower the buying power of our potential customers. This in turn may adversely affect our activities and business results. We may be affected by political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel have a direct influence on us because our operations are located there. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially and adversely affect our operations. Several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the area. Last year, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamic Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most daily civilian activity in northern Israel. These events have at times caused considerable damage to the Israeli economy. As a result of the political and military situation, Israel’s economy has at times suffered considerably. Ongoing or revived hostilities related to Israel may have a material adverse effect on our business and on our share price. Page 6 Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all Israeli residents of this age are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Many of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since it began operations, management cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on its workforce or business if political and military conditions should change, and management cannot predict the effect on it of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not accurately predict the rate of consumption of our products. We hold inventory of basic food stuffs (such as preserved food, oils and rice) and other food products, and we accumulate inventories of these products based on our prediction of the consumption of these products. If actual consumption does not meet the prediction, and the shelf life of such products expire or we cannot otherwise sell such products, this may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, to the extent we do not have adequate inventory of these critical products (due, for example, to an emergency situation), we will not be able to meet the needs of our customers and our revenues may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by any interruption to our storage facility. We store most of our products in a single location, save for products being distributed to customers. Any interruption to this storage facility whether by power failure, flooding or other event would have a material impact on our ability to trade in the ordinary course. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our losses in the event our products are subject to product liability claims or our products are subject to recall. In such event, it would have a material adverse effect on us. Our products may become the subject of product liability claims, and there can be no assurance that our property insurance coverage limits will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. A product recall or a product liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have substantial coverage, could result in significant expenses, including legal defense costs, thereby increasing our expenses, lowering our earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. A successful product liability claim or other judgment against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation. Our operating results may be subject to variations from quarter to quarter. Our operating results may be subject to variations from quarter to quarter depending on, among other things, the timing of sales campaigns and special events initiated by both us and our customers, the major Jewish holidays (such as the Jewish New Year and Passover), our ability to manage future inventory levels in line with business opportunities and anticipated customers’ demand, competitive developments in the market, changes in the rates of inflation in Israel and fluctuations in NIS/Dollar exchange rates. There can be no assurance that our sales or net income (if any) in any particular quarter will not be lower than the preceding and/or comparable quarter or that its sales or net income (if any) in a particular quarter will be indicative of our results of operations for the entire year. The trading prices of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly in response to variations in our operating results. Page 7 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be compromised. We market certain products under the trademarks “Willi-Food”, “Pizza Top”, “Gold Food”, “Donna Rozza” and “Gold Frost”. Although we have registered trademarks for these brands, we cannot assure that the degree of protection these and other trademarks offer will be sufficient to protect our rights in these marks. Initiation and Enforcement of Legal Action in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. All of our executive officers and Directors and some of the experts named in this annual report are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of the Company’s assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions initiated in Israel. If our ordinary shares are de-listed from Nasdaq, the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares and our ability to issue additional securities may be significantly reduced. We may in the future fail to comply with the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly the Nasdaq Small Cap Market) regulations and listing requirements as to minimum net income, minimum number of shareholders and public float and other requirements, and as a result Nasdaq may initiate procedures to de-list our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Any such de-listing may severely complicate trading of our shares by its shareholders, or prevent them from re-selling their shares at/or above the price they paid. Furthermore, our relatively low trading volumes may make it difficult for shareholders to trade shares or initiate any other transactions. De-listing may also make it more difficult for us to issue additional securities or secure additional financing. In July 2003 and in November 2004, we received letters from the Nasdaq Stock Market informing us that we had failed to meet a continued listing requirement, that we have 500,000 publicly held shares, and that our ordinary shares were therefore subject to de-listing from the Nasdaq Capital Market, unless a proper plan for complying with the requirement was presented. Following the receipt of the November 2004 letter, Willi Food Investments Ltd. and Mr. Joseph Williger sold 75,000 of our shares to the public and at the same time we distributed a one to one stock dividend to our shareholders. As a result of these actions, we then complied with the abovementioned listing requirements and the threat of de-listing was removed. One shareholder owns a large percentage of our shares. As of the date of this Annual Report, Willi-Food owned approximately 62.26% of our ordinary shares. Mr. Joseph Williger, who serves as officer and director of our company, as well as of Willi-Food, holds approximately 14.70% of the outstanding shares of Willi-Food (approximately 12.48% on a fully-diluted basis). Mr. Zvi Williger, who serves as officer and director of our company, as well as of Willi-Food, holds approximately 36.64% of the outstanding shares of Willi-Food (approximately 32.41% on a fully-diluted basis). As a result, Mr. Zvi Williger, the controlling shareholder of Willi-Food, has the ability to control our activities, management and policies, including matters requiring shareholder approval, such as the election of directors. Our Articles of Association do not provide for cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of directors and every resolution of the company in the general meeting of shareholders is deemed duly passed if passed by a simple majority of the shareholders present and voting unless another majority is required by the Israeli Companies Law, or Companies Law, or by our Articles of Association. Page 8 We are controlled by and have business relations with Willi-Food and its management. Willi-Food, our controlling shareholder, is a holding company whose main asset is the ordinary shares it owns in our company. Willi-Food currently does not directly conduct any material business. Willi-Food, Mr. Zvi Williger, the controlling shareholder of Willi-Food, and Mr. Joseph Williger, have been and continue in certain cases to be party to certain agreements and arrangements relating to our operations. Such transactions include service and employment arrangements between each of Messrs. Joseph and Zvi Williger together with us, the lease of our executive offices from Messrs. Joseph and Zvi Williger, and a service agreement we have with Willi-Food. All such transactions include consideration. In addition, certain of our key personnel also serve in management positions in Willi-Food. By serving in dual capacities, these persons may experience conflicts of interest involving the two companies. Israeli law imposes procedures, including, for certain material transactions, a requirement of shareholder approval, as a precondition to entering into interested party transactions. These procedures may apply to transactions between Willi-Food and us. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to avoid the possible detrimental effects of any such conflicts of interest by complying with the procedures mandated by Israeli law. Our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international business. We purchase food products from over 100 suppliers located around the world. Therefore, we are subject to certain risks that are inherent in an international business. These include: — varying regulatory restrictions on sales of our products to certain markets and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; — tariffs, customs, duties, quotas and other trade barriers; — difficulties in managing foreign operations and foreign distribution partners; — longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; — fluctuations in currency exchange rates; — political risks; — foreign exchange controls which may restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; — export and import restrictions or prohibitions, and delays from customs brokers or government agencies; — seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; and — potentially adverse tax consequences. Depending on the countries involved, any or all of the foregoing factors could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 9 The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly and may be affected by our operating results, changes in our business, changes in the products we market and distribute, and general market and economic conditions which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general have, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These fluctuations have affected stock prices of many companies without regard to their specific operating performance. The price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. 