ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating the Company and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should be able to bear the complete loss of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Our limited cash from operations, inability to borrow under our credit agreement, and expectation of decreased future product orders raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $878. Due to our inability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, the lack of availability of additional loan advances under the Revolving Loan and Security Agreement and the reduction of video phone orders in the near term by ACN DPS, we do not believe our current cash and cash equivalents will satisfy our projected cash requirements in the near term and through December 31, 2011 and there exists substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result, our auditors have included a going concern modification in their audit report on our financial statements at December 31, 2010 and for the fiscal year then ended, and we have disclosed this going concern uncertainty and management’s plans to deal with this unce rtainty in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements. We are in the process of reducing our operating costs and other expenditures, including reductions of personnel and capital expenditures. In view of our current cash resources, nondiscretionary expenses, debt and near term debt service obligations, we intend to explore all strategic alternatives available to us, including, but not limited to, a sale or merger of the Company or certain of our assets, recapitalization, partnership, debt or equity financing, financial reorganization, liquidation and/or ceasing operations. We may determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily seek relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Seeking relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, even if we are able to emerge quickly from Chapter 11 protection, could have a material adverse effect on the relationships between us and our existing and potential customers, employees, and others. Further, if we were unable to implement a successful plan of reorganizati on, we might be forced to liquidate under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our board of directors has established a special committee of directors that are independent and disinterested from WGI and ACN to guide us through the evaluation of strategic alternatives. There can be no assurance that exploration of strategic alternatives will result in us pursuing any particular transaction or, if we pursue any such transaction, that it will be completed. We do not expect to make further public comment regarding our consideration of strategic alternatives until our board of directors has approved a specific course of action, our board of directors deems disclosure of significant developments is appropriate, or we are legally required to do so. Because of our significant losses to date and our limited tangible assets, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets. If we issue additional equity or convertible debt securities to raise funds, the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders would be reduced and they may experience significant dilution. New investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. 13 Our CEO and CFO have resigned, we have engaged in a reduction in our workforce and we need to retain our remaining key personnel to support our products and ongoing operations. Effective as of March 11, 2011, George E. Daddis, Jr. tendered his resignation as our Chief Executive Officer and President. Effective as of March 13, 2011, James G. Dole tendered his resignation as our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Finance. On March 14, 2011, we began reducing the size of our workforce as a result of liquidity issues. Following completion of this reduction in the size of our workforce, our workforce is expected to be reduced to approximately 15 employees. The development and marketing of our equipment will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, including our key engineering personnel who have critical indus try experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. None of our officers or key employees are bound by employment agreements for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our other officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products and services which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The discontinuance of our digital voice and video communication services to customers may negatively impact our ability to sell video communications equipment. In connection with our cost reduction measures in March 2011, we discontinued offering our digital voice and video phone services to customers and we are in the process of terminating this aspect of our services business and related supporting services infrastructure. The discontinuation of our digital voice and video phone services to customers could have a material adverse effect on the relationships between us and our existing and potential customers, end users and others and could adversely affect our future prospects of selling video communications equipment. The lack of a digital voice and video phone services offering will make it more difficult for us to demonstrate market acceptability of our video communications equipment and could negatively impact our ability to make sales in our Equipment segment to telecommuni cations service providers. Operational Risks The growth of our Company is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of our video communications equipment. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenues generated from our video communications equipment. In turn, the success of these products depends upon, among other things, future demand for VoIP and video telephony systems and services. Because the use of our products requires that the user be a subscriber to an existing broadband Internet service, usually provided through a cable, digital subscriber line, fiber or a wireless network, slow or limited adoption and availability of broadband services could adversely affect the growth in our sales of video phones. Although the number of broadband subscribers worldwide has grown significantly over the last five years, VoIP and video telephony has not yet been adopted by a majority of residential and enterprise customers. To increase the deployment of broadband I nternet services from broadband Internet service providers, telephone companies and cable companies must continue to invest in the deployment of high speed broadband networks to residential and business customers, over which we have no control. In addition, VoIP networks must improve quality of service for real-time communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss, and unreliable bandwidth, so that toll-quality service can be consistently provided. VoIP and video telephony equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability that users of the PSTN have come to expect from their telephone service, and the cost and feature benefits of VoIP and video telephony must be sufficient to cause customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our business may be affected adversely. 14 The extent and timing of revenues from our products is not certain. The extent and timing of revenues for our video phone equipment depends on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our equipment, the degree of competition from similar products, and our ability to access funding necessary to provide the ability to distribute equipment. We cannot predict to what extent our video phone equipment will produce significant revenues, or when, or if, we will reach profitability. Our sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable, which makes it difficult to forecast the amount of our sales and operating expenses in any particular period. The sales cycle for our equipment typically ranges from six to twelve months, or longer. As a result, we may have limited ability to forecast whether or in which period a sale will occur. The success of our product sales process is subject to many factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including: · the timing of customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; · a technical evaluation or trial by potential customers; · our ability to introduce new products, features or functionality in a manner that suits the needs of a particular customer; · the announcement or introduction of competing products; and · the strength of existing relationships between our competitors and potential customers. We may expend substantial time, effort and money educating our current and prospective customers as to the value of, and benefits delivered by, our products, and ultimately fail to produce a sale. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant resources, our operating results will be adversely affected. Furthermore, if sales forecasted for a particular period do not occur in such period, our operating results for that period could be substantially lower than anticipated and could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. We depend on Kentec, our contract manufacturer, to manufacture substantially all of our video phone products, and any delay or interruption in manufacturing by Kentec or shortage or lack of availability of components would result in delayed or reduced shipments to our customers and may harm our business. We do not have long-term purchase agreements with Kentec and we depend on Kentec to manufacture our video phone products. There can be no assurance that Kentec will be able or willing to reliably manufacture our video phone products, in volumes, on a cost-effective basis or in a timely manner. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of Kentec, or if Kentec experiences financial or other difficulties in their business, our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. In particular, if Kentec becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, we may not be able to obtain any of our products held by Kentec. Due to our recent liquidity issues, we are currently in negotiations with Kentec regarding the settlement of outstanding payables for previously shipped video phones and the release for shipment of video phones that have been manufactured based on committed purchase orders between us and ACN DPS. In addition, Kentec may cease manufacturing our video phone products or may demand less favorable payment terms if it remains concerned about our ability to meet our obligations under the Manufacturing Agreement. The failure to negotiate a settlement of our outstanding payables to Kentec and Kentec deciding not to manufacture additional video phones or demanding less favorable payment terms could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our business. 15 Our failure to meet our obligations under the Master Purchase Agreement with ACN DPS may result in termination of the agreement and require the return of prepaid amounts. Kentec is currently not permitting the release for shipment of video phones that have been manufactured based on committed purchase orders between us and ACN DPS. If we are not able to deliver the video phones to ACN DPS pursuant to outstanding committed purchase orders, ACN DPS may consider us in breach of our Master Purchase Agreement, may terminate the Master Purchase Agreement (including the 300,000 video phone purchase commitment) and may demand repayment of 50% of the purchase price for such phones that had been previously paid by ACN DPS to us. If any of these events occur, it would have a material and adverse affect on our operating results and our business. Our products incorporate some sole source or limited source components and the inability of these sole source and limited source suppliers to provide adequate supplies of these components may prevent us from selling our products for a significant period of time or limit our ability to deliver sufficient amounts of our products. We rely on sole or limited numbers of suppliers for certain components utilized in the assembly of our equipment. For example, we source semiconductors that are essential to the operation of our phones from a single supplier, and we have not identified or qualified any alternative suppliers for these components. We do not have supply agreements with our sole source suppliers, and the components for our products are typically procured by our contract manufacturer. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide components for us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. If we lose access to these components we may not be able to sell our products for a significant period of time, and we could incur significant costs to redesign our products or to qualify alternative suppliers. This reliance on a sole source or limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including supplier capacity constraints, price increases, purchasing lead times, timely delivery and component quality. Additionally, some of our products may require specialized or high-performance component parts that may not be available in quantities or in time frames that meet our requirements. This reliance is exacerbated by the fact that we maintain a relatively small amount of inventory and our contract manufacturer typically acquires components only as needed. As a result, our ability to respond to large customer orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of these components. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our equipment and could materially and adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective customers. In addition, any increase in the price of these components could reduce our gross margin and adversely impact our profitability. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient quantity of these components to meet the demands of customers in a timely manner or that prices of these components may increase. In addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of these components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. These delays could also materially and adversely affect our operating results. Because our products use components or materials that may be subject to price fluctuations, shortages, interruptions of supply, or discontinuation, we may be unable to ship our products in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect our revenues, harm our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future occasionally experience shortages or interruptions in supply for certain components, including components that have been or will be discontinued, which can cause us to delay shipments beyond targeted or announced dates. For example, as a result of the recent earthquake and tsunamis in Japan, we may experience shortages of supply for components that we source from companies located in Japan. To help address these issues, we may decide to purchase quantities of these items that are in excess of our estimated requirements. As a result, we could be forced to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, which could harm our operating results. In addition, if a component goes out of production, we may be required to requalify substitute components, or ev en redesign our products to incorporate an alternative component. If we experience any shortage of components of acceptable quality, or any interruption in the supply of these components, or if we are not able to procure them from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable period of time, our revenues, gross profits or both could decrease. 16 Flaws in our equipment, technology and systems could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our equipment has in the past contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects. Some errors in our equipment may only be discovered after equipment has been installed and used by customers. Any errors or defects discovered in our equipment after commercial release could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our agreements with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our bus iness liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to meet our product development objectives or market expectations. Our video phone products are complex and use “state of the art” technology. Accordingly, our development efforts are inherently difficult to manage and keep on schedule and there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our development objectives or market expectations. In addition to development delays, we may experience substantial cost overruns in completing development of our product. The technological feasibility for some aspects of the products that we envision is not completely established. We may be unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing customer requirements. In addition, we must commit significant resources to developing new products and features before knowing whether our investments will result in products that are acc epted by the market. The success of new products depends on many factors, including the ability of our products to compete with the products and solutions offered by our competitors; the cost of our products; the reliability of our products; the timeliness of the introduction and delivery of our products; and the market acceptance of our products. Further, there can be no assurance that a competitor will not introduce a similar product. The introduction by a competitor of either a similar product or a superior alternative to our product, may diminish our technological advantage, render our product and technologies partially or wholly obsolete, or require substantial re-engineering of our product in order to become commercially acceptable. Our failure to maintain our product development schedules, avoid cost overruns and undetected errors or introduce a product that is superior to competing products would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product introductions by us in future periods may also reduce demand for, or cause price declines with respect to, our existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and other operating results. Competition is intense and our inability to compete effectively in any of these markets could negatively affect our results of operations. We face significant competition in the video communications solutions industry, including from manufacturers of business video phones, video conferencing systems, web-cam products and mobile products. Some of these companies have substantial financial resources and production, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products, which may result in our having to increase our spending on marketing or in increased downward pressure on our product prices, and we may not be able to effectively compete against these companies due to their size. 17 In addition, with the increasing market acceptance of video communications solutions, other established or new companies may develop or market products competitive with our video products, including companies with greater financial and other resources, greater brand recognition or greater access to top-level executives than we have, or may partner with companies which have more substantial resources and production, sales, marketing, engineering and other capabilities with which to develop, manufacture, market and sell their products and to bring their products to market or respond to changing technologies more rapidly than we can, or that may be more adept in responding to rapidly changing market conditions or changing technologies than we are. These factors could negatively impact our revenues as customers assess such new technologies or wait to make purchases until sales prices for such next generation products fall. Conversely, new product adoption may grow at such rates that we are unable to keep up with increasing demand due to our size, resources, need to establish new partnerships, or other factors. Also, strategic partnerships and acquisitions are regularly being formed and announced by our competitors, which may increase competition and result in increased downward pressure on our product prices. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and very high volatility and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. The spending patterns of residential and enterprise customers may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. If the weakening economy continues to deteriorate, the growth of our business and results of operations may be more impacted. Economic conditions may cause more households to rely solely on a mobile phone for home telecommunications and eliminate landline connections. In addition, reduced customer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer certain products at promotional prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The success of our business partly relies on customers’ continued and unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our products or charge their customers more for also using our products or services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. Our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our video phones. Some providers of broadband access may take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our equipment, such as degrading the quality of the data packets transmitted over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than those originating and transmitted by our video phones, blocking packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our equipment. It is not clear whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our products without interference. Providers of broadband services are subject to relatively light regulation by the FCC. Consequently, federal and state regulators might not prohibit broadband providers from limiting their customers’ access to using video phones or otherwise discriminating against video phone providers. Interference with our products or services or higher charges for also using our products could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These problems could also arise in international markets. 18 Because much of our potential success and value lies in our use of internally developed systems and software, if we fail to protect them, it could negatively affect us. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in large part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally. While we have issued patents and pending patent applications, we cannot patent much of the technology that is important to our business. To date, we have relied on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. We typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors in an effort to control access to and distribution of technology, software, documentation and other information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use this technology without author ization. Policing unauthorized use of this technology is difficult. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions outside the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to protect, or enforce our intellectual property rights in, our source code adequately. Protection of our source code is very important to us. We protect our source code as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. We distribute our products in object code, which is a form of computer software that is executed by computers and does not reveal the structure or logic of the programming performed by humans. Our agreements with our customers prohibit reverse engineering of the object code to get access to the source code. Nevertheless, a third party might try to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our source code without our permission. The steps taken by us to protect our source code may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we sell our product may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Unautho rized copying, use or reverse engineering of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to freely provide source code for our products to the extent that such code is a derivative work of open source code that is included in our product for ancillary capabilities. Some of our software includes open source code for ancillary capabilities. While we believe that there is no obligation to make available or redistribute other components of our software as a result of the inclusion of such open source code, in the event that our software includes open source code which does in fact introduce such obligations, we may be required to freely provide source code for our products to the extent that such code is a derivative work of the open source code for others to use, modify and redistribute according to the open source code license. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. and other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. If we we re found to have violated an open source license, the copyright holder for the corresponding open source software may be able to obtain injunctive relief and/or monetary damages against us or we could be required to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, open source licenses generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Thus, we may have little or no recourse if we become subject to infringement claims relating to the open source software that we might use or if such open source software is defective in any manner. 19 Technology that we license from third parties may not provide us with the benefits we expect and loss of the ability to license certain technologies may result in delays in product development and sales. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently utilized by us or other technology which we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated. These licenses are on standard commercial terms made generally available by the companies providing the licenses. The telecommunications equipment industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications equipment industry is changing rapidly due to consolidation, technological improvements and the availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet and VOIP. If we do not adjust to meet changing market conditions, including if we do not have adequate resources to do so, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications equipment industry is marked by the introduction of new product offerings. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, products that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive products or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our inventory levels effectively, which may lead to inventory obsolescence that would force us to incur inventory write-downs. We generate forecasts of future demand for our products several months prior to the scheduled delivery to our prospective customers and typically prior to receiving a purchase order from our customers. We therefore make significant investments before our resellers or customers place orders to purchase our products and before we know if corresponding shipment forecasts will be changed. Our resellers and customers are not contractually bound by the forecasts they provide us until they sign a purchase order, and the orders we ultimately receive often differ from original forecasts. Our video phone products have lead times of up to several months and are built to forecasts that are necessarily imprecise. Because of our practice of building our products to necessarily imprecise forecasts, it is likely that from time to time we will have eit her excess or insufficient inventory. In addition, because we rely on third party vendors for the supply of components and contract manufacturers to assemble our products, our inventory levels are subject to the conditions regarding the timing of purchase orders and delivery dates that are not within our control. Excess inventory levels would subject us to the risk of inventory obsolescence, while insufficient levels of inventory may negatively affect relations with customers. Our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates, and any disruption in the supply of our products could result in legal action from our customers, loss of customers or harm to our ability to attract new customers. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. If enterprise users experience inadequate performance with their wide area networks, our product performance could be adversely affected. Our products depend on the reliable performance of the wide area networks of enterprise users. If enterprise users experience inadequate performance with their wide area networks, whether due to outages, component failures, or otherwise, our product performance would be adversely affected. As a result, when these types of problems occur with these networks, enterprise users may not be able to immediately identify the source of the problem, and may conclude that the problem is related to our products. This could harm our relationships with enterprise users and make it more difficult to attract new enterprise users, which could harm our business. 20 We may make strategic acquisitions in the future. We may not be successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to ours. Any such acquisition or investment could materially adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions and other strategic investments involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: · unanticipated costs and liabilities; · difficulties in integrating new products, software, businesses, operations and technology infrastructure in an efficient and effective manner; · difficulties in maintaining customer relations; · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; · the diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business; · the potential adverse effect on our cash position as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid in cash; · the potential significant increase of our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; · the potential issuance of securities that would dilute our shareholders’ percentage ownership; · the potential to incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; and · the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of future growth opportunities and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which was remediated as of September 30, 2009 and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future that may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements of our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We reported a material weakness in our internal controls relating to the lack of internal GAAP expertise to assist with the accounting and reporting of complex financial tr ansactions, which was remediated as of September 30, 2009. 21 If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm the market value of our common stock. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls also could impair our ability to manage our business and harm our financial results. Litigation and Regulatory Risks We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of our Company. Given the rapid technological change in our industry and our continual development of new products and services, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims in the future. Third parties may assert that the technologies we use infringe their intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and issued patents that could include claims covering our equipment and services. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our equipment and services and could cause us to pay substantial royalties, licensing fees or damages. The defense of any lawsuit could divert management’s efforts and attention from the ordinary business operations and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims. If we are forced to defend against any third-party infringement claims, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation and be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any conduct or technologie s that are found to be infringing. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing technology, which could be costly and time-consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, which could materially harm our business. These outcomes may: · result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers; · lead to an event of default under the terms of our Revolving Loan and Security Agreement with WGI, which could permit WGI to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the Revolving Loan and Security Agreement, including principal and accrued interest and take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness; · cause existing or new vendors to require prepayments or letters of credit; · cause our credit card processors to demand additional reserves or letters of credit or make holdbacks; · result in substantial employee layoffs; · materially and adversely affect our brand in the market place and cause a substantial loss of goodwill; 22 · cause our stock price to decline significantly or otherwise cause us to fail to meet the continued listing requirements of any exchange on which our securities may be traded, which could distract management and result in the delisting of our common stock from the exchange; · materially and adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay debts and other obligations as they become due; and · lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and worker health and safety laws may be costly and noncompliance with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. We could be subject to increased costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we violate or become liable under environmental and/or worker health and safety laws. We may be subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“EU RoHS”)). The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“WEEE”), which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, labeling, recycling, treatment and dis posal of past and future covered products. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU RoHS or WEEE. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and develop new strategies for the design of new products to utilize components which are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in delays in product design and manufacture and could cause us to incur additional costs. We cannot assure you that the costs to comply with these laws, or with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, expenses and financial condition. We may be subject to liabilities for past telecom taxes, sales taxes, surcharges and fees. During fiscal year 2010, we collected telecom taxes, sales taxes, surcharges and fees from our service customers. The amounts collected from our customers are remitted to the proper authorities. While we believe we have collected and remitted appropriately, it is possible that claims for back taxes may be asserted against us, which could adversely affect our business financial condition or operating results. One or more taxing authorities may seek to impose sales, use or other tax collection obligations on us. A successful assertion by one or more taxing authorities that we should have collected sales, use or other taxes on the sale of our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales and could adversely affect our business. 23 We may incur significant costs and harm to our reputation from lawsuits and regulatory inquiries related to our business practices, which may also divert the attention of our management from other aspects of our business. Litigation and regulatory inquiries are often expensive and time consuming and their outcome may be uncertain. Any such claims or regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. We may need to spend significant amounts on our legal defense, senior management may be required to divert their attention from other portions of our business, new product launches may be deferred or canceled as a result of any proceedings, and we may be required to make changes to our present and planned products or services. If, as a result of any proceedings, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our repu tation. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and radio frequency transmission equipment and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or impor t of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Our ability to offer our equipment outside the United States is subject to the local regulatory environment. The regulations and laws applicable to our equipment outside the United States are various and often complicated and uncertain. The failure by us, our customers or our resellers to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate or that we will be able to market our products in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks. Financing and Capital Risks We have incurred yearly losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur losses in the future. For the period from our inception through December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $288,467. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our net loss was $12,722. Our net losses were driven primarily by minimal sales volume and substantial product development costs. We ultimately may not be successful in achieving profitability at any point in the future. 24 Future sales of common stock or warrants, or the prospect of future sales, may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock or warrants, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding options to purchase up to 6,691,486 shares of our common stock that were currently exercisable, and additional outstanding options to purchase up to 16,007,940 shares of common stock that were exercisable over the next several years. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding warrants to purchase up to 46,261,030 shares of our common stock that were currently exercisable, and additional outstanding warrants to purchase up to 134,831,434 shares of common stock that were exercisable over the next several years. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average exercise price of issued and outstanding options is $0.40 and the weighted average exercise price of warrants is $0.05. The holders of these options and warrants have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock with a resulting dilution in the interests of the other. The existence of these options may depress our stock price and may adversely affect the terms on which we may be able to obtain any additional future financing. Our common stockholders may suffer dilution in the future upon exercise of the Anti-Dilution Warrant, the WGI Warrants and the ACN 2009 and 2010 Warrants. In connection with the closing on April 6, 2009 of the transactions contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement with WGI, we issued the Anti-Dilution Warrant to WGI, which, as of December 31, 2010, entitles WGI to purchase up to 125,872,566 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share to the extent we issue any capital stock upon the exercise or conversion of any Existing Contingent Equity, Future Contingent Equity, or the ACN 2009 Warrant. In connection with amending the Revolving Loan and Security Agreement in March 2010, we granted WGI a fully vested warrant to purchase up to 6,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.574 per share. In connection with amending the Revolving Loan and Security Agreement in August 2010, we granted WGI a fully vested warrant to purchase up to 8,000,0 00 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.432 per share. In April 2009, we granted ACN DPS a warrant to purchase up to approximately 38,219,897 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.0425 per share. In March 2010, we granted to ACN DPS a warrant to purchase up to 3,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.0425 per share. The warrants granted to ACN DPS will vest incrementally based on ACN DPS’s purchases of video phones under the Master Purchase Agreement. If the warrants held by WGI or ACN DPS are exercised, our stockholders may experience significant and immediate dilution. WGI, as our majority stockholder, has the ability to exert a controlling influence over us. As of December 31, 2010, WGI owned a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, WGI is able to exert a controlling influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including composition of our board of directors and, through it, our direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; potential mergers, acquisitions, sales of assets and other significant corporate transactions; future issuances of capital stock or other securities by us; incurrence of debt by us; amendments, waivers and modifications to any agreements between us and WGI; payment of dividends on our capital stock; and approval of our business plans and general business development. In addition, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock as part of a sale of our Company or result in strategic decisions that could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our outstanding stock. WGI also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and WGI concerning, among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. WGI is not restricted from competitive activities or investments. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of WGI will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Also, four of our seven dir ectors are affiliated with WGI. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence the management of our Company is limited, which could have could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. 25 The ownership of WGI includes owners of ACN, and we have engaged, and may in the future further engage, in commercial transactions with ACN and its affiliated entities. WGI is a private investment fund whose ownership includes owners of ACN. Several of the members of our board of directors currently serve as officers and/or directors of ACN. Because ACN is a direct seller of telecommunications services, we may seek to engage in commercial transactions to provide products to ACN and its subsidiaries in the future, as demonstrated by the Master Purchase Agreement for 300,000 video phones. Although we expect that the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of ACN and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the Audit Committee or another independent committee of our board of directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us as might otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. We will be required under applicable accounting guidelines to report significant reductions in the revenue we recognize from sales of our products to ACN and its subsidiaries. Current accounting principles require that revenue generated as result of the sale of the 300,000 video phones pursuant to the Master Purchase Agreement with ACN DPS be reduced to reflect the extent that the ACN Warrants are determined to be consideration given by a vendor to a customer for which an otherwise identifiable benefit has not been received. Applicable accounting guidance requires that the fair value of the ACN Warrants be recorded as a reduction of revenue to the extent of probable cumulative revenue recorded from ACN DPS. As a result, investors may not see the revenue expected from our business and this could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period and may be difficult to predict. Our historical operating results have fluctuated significantly and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, and a decline in our operating results could cause our stock price to fall. On an annual and a quarterly basis, there are a number of factors that may affect our operating results, many of which are outside our control. These include, but are not limited to, changes in market demand; the timing of customer orders; customer cancellations; competitive market conditions; lengthy sales cycles; new product introductions by us or our competitors; market acceptance of new or existing products; the cost and availability of components; the mix of our customer base and sales channels; the mix of products sold; the management of inventory; continued compliance with industry standards and regulatory requirements; the impact of any fi nancing we may obtain; and general economic conditions. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Securities markets experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price of our shares. These factors include judgments in litigation, changes in our earnings or variations in operating results, any shortfall in revenue or increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts, changes in regulatory policies or tax law, operating performance of companies comparable to us; and general economic trends and other external factors. If any of these factors causes the price of our common stock to fall, investors may not be ab le to sell their shares of our common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. 26 As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our stock experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly traded.” Financing transactions resulting in a large number of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place further downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB, which may increase the volatility of our stock and make it harder to sell shares of our common stock. In October 2007, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and commenced being quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. In February 2011, quotations for our common stock were removed from the OTC Bulletin Board and transferred to the OTCQB (formerly Pink Sheets) in connection with the migration of quotations by certain market makers to that market. Trading in our common stock is now conducted on the OTCQB, which tends to be a highly illiquid market. There is a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTCQB (as opposed to a national exchange), as a result of which stockholders may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our securities. Thus, stockholders may be required to either sell our securities at a market price which is lower than their purchase price or to hold our s ecurities for a longer period of time than they planned. Further, for companies whose securities are traded in the OTCQB , it is more difficult: (i) to obtain accurate quotations, (ii) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services, such as the Dow Jones News Service, generally do not publish press releases about such companies, and (iii) to obtain needed capital. Our stock is deemed to be penny stock. Our stock is currently traded on the OTCQB and is subject to the “penny stock rules” adopted pursuant to Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The penny stock rules apply to companies not listed on a national exchange whose common stock trades at less than $5.00 per share or which have tangible net worth of less than $5,000 ($2,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). Such rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade “penny stock” to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information unde r certain circumstances. Penny stocks sold in violation of the applicable rules may entitle the buyer of the stock to rescind the sale and receive a full refund from the broker. Many brokers have decided not to trade “penny stock” because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. Because our securities are subject to the “penny stock rules,” investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. 27 Our board of directors’ right to authorize additional shares of preferred stock could adversely impact the rights of holders of our common stock. Our board of directors currently has the right to designate and authorize the issuance of one or more series of our preferred stock with such voting, dividend and other rights as our directors may determine. The board of directors can designate new series of preferred stock without the approval of the holders of our common stock. The rights of holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of any holders of shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, including, without limitation, dilution of the equity ownership percentage of holders of our common stock and their voting power if we issue preferred stock with voting rights. Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We may be unable to fully realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards may be subject to annual limitations as a result of prior, current or future changes in ownership and tax law as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). It is more likely than not that we experienced the following changes of control resulting in the limitations in net operating loss carryforwards: (1) during October 2008, as a result of the aggregation of shares related to the conversion of the convertible debenture into shares of our common stock by the convertible debenture holder and (2) during April 2009, as a result of the private placement pursuant to which WGI acquired shares of our common stock representing 63% of our outstanding common stock. The NOL carryforward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the change in ownership. If a change in ownership was determined to have occurred, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset future taxable income. In general, a change in ownership occurs when, as of any testing date, there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of the corporation held by 5% stockholders of more than 50 percentage points over an applicable three-year period. For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during an applicable three-year period has owned 5% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding common stock are grouped together as one or more “public group” 5% stockholders. Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly (though intervening entities) and constructively (by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group). 