ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AN ADVERSE DETERMINATION OF OUR DISPUTE WITH NOSTRUM WILL HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY AND POSSIBLY ITS FINANCIAL CONDITION. 19 We are in the midst of a dispute with Nostrum which owns approximately 40% of the outstanding shares of Synovics' Common Stock arising from its notices purporting to terminate our rights to (i) four drugs which are being developed pursuant to the Technology Agreement dated as of March 16, 2005, as amended (the "Technology Agreement") and (ii) the ANDA Ownership Transfer and Product License Agreement, dated May 17, 2006 (the "ANDA Agreement"). The Technology Agreement and ANDA Agreement provide the Company with exclusive rights under certain Nostrum technology for the development, manufacture and sale of certain controlled release drug products as well as to ownership of an FDA approved abbreviated new drug application and certain additional exclusive rights under certain Nostrum technology, all of which are central to the Company's product pipeline. The Company disputes the purported termination notices and has submitted the dispute for arbitration. On November 20, 2006, the Company obtained from the United States District Court a temporary restraining order enjoining Nostrum from terminating the Technology Agreement. On December 6, 2006, Nostrum was preliminarily enjoined from terminating the Technology Agreement but only as to the four products designated by the Company for development pursuant to the Technology Agreement conditioned on the Company posting a $100,000 bond, which it posted. The Court held a further hearing in the matter on January 31, 2007, at which time the parties reported to the Court on the status of the arbitration and on the status of the Company's work with respect to the four products that are the subject of the injunction; the Court has reserved decision and extended the preliminary injunction pending the conduct of limited discovery. The Company's subsidiary, Synovics Laboratories, on January 12, 2007, filed a complaint with the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to enjoin Nostrum from terminating the ANDA Agreement. That action has been consolidated with the previously-filed action relating to the Technology Agreement. Synovics Laboratories moved for a preliminary injunction on January 23, 2007 and the Court has reserved decision ordering preservation of the status quo pending that decision. No assurance can be given that permanent injunctions will be granted and that the Company will be able to avoid a termination of the Technology and ANDA Agreements, and maintain its rights as to products under development pursuant to such agreements or receive adequate restitution. The loss of either the Technology Agreement and ANDA Agreement will have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations and possibly on its financial condition. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS OUTSTANDING AND ARE LATE IN THE PAYMENT OF CERTAIN OUTSTANDING NOTES. In order to finance our operations, as of October 31, 2006, we have incurred significant indebtedness of $18,295,000 (not including accrued interest) including, but not limited to, a senior secured credit facility from the Bank of India in the principal amount of $10,500,000 used to finance the purchase of Kirk and for working capital purposes, a note in the principal amount of $3,000,000 held by one of the former owners of Kirk and convertible bridge notes in the 20 principal amount of $4,545,000. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are late in the payment of interest on notes in the principal amount of $4,545,000 and are currently in discussions with a handful of note holders in an effort to resolve this. There can be no assurances that we will be able to reach a satisfactory resolution or that any such resolution will be upon terms favorable to the Company and our failure to resolve this may result in the principal and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon becoming immediately which event would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, since we have limited resources, we anticipate repaying such indebtedness from future cash flow from product commercialization and from the offering of equity and/or debt securities and there are no assurances that we will generate such cash flow or raise adequate financing, if any, to service such debt. WE ARE CONTINUING TO ACCRUE PENALTIES FOR FAILURE OF A REGISTRATION STATEMENT TO BE DECLARED EFFECTIVE. As part of a private placement conducted during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, the Company committed to register the shares of Common Stock underlying certain convertible notes and placement agent warrants promptly following the closing of the offering and to cause the registration statement to be declared effective no later than 120 days following closing. Although the Company subsequently filed a registration statement, it has not been declared effective and as a consequence we are accruing a penalty of 1% of the purchase price paid by the note holders plus the aggregate exercise price of the warrants and placement agent warrants for the first two months increasing to 2.5% for each subsequent month. There is no cap on the maximum amount of the penalties and the Company has recognized penalties of $914,549 during the year ended October 31, 2006. A FAILURE TO LOCATE AND HIRE A SUITABLE CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER IN REPLACEMENT OF DR. MULYE COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. The Company on January 5, 2007 received a letter of resignation as Chief Scientific Officer from Dr. Nirmal A. Mulye, who had resigned as a Director in November 2006 and is the beneficial owner of the outstanding shares of common stock of Nostrum. No assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in locating and hiring a suitable new Chief Scientific Officer in the reasonable future. Failure to do so will have a material adverse effect on the research and development operations of the Company. SYNOVICS HAS A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH AN INVESTOR CAN EVALUATE ITS POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE SUCCESS. Other than as to the recently acquired operations of Kirk, there is limited historical financial information about the Company upon which to base an evaluation of the Company's performance or to make a decision regarding an investment in shares of the Company's common stock. The Company has generated an accumulated deficit of approximately $53,000,000 through its fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, $44,832,000 through October 31, 2005; $41,921,000 through October 31, 2004, $40,797,000 through October 31, 2003, and $40,037,000 through October 31, 2002. In the future, sales of products the Company may 21 introduce may fail to achieve significant levels of market acceptance. The Company's research and development business will be subject to all the problems, expenses, delays and risks inherent in the establishment of an early stage business enterprise, including limited capital, delays in product development, cost overruns due to price increases in raw products and unforeseen difficulties in manufacturing, uncertain market acceptance and the absence of an operating history. Therefore, the Company may never achieve or maintain profitable operations, and the Company may encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete its capital more rapidly than anticipated. THE COMPANY EXPECTS TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE AS A RESULT OF INCREASES IN ITS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES, INCLUDING COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH CLINICAL TRIALS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE. Synovics is a development stage company and is anticipating a prolonged period of losses and negative cash flows while it develops and commences commercialization of its planned products. As a result, its chances for achieving profitability on a sustained basis will depend on numerous factors, including the following: o successful retention of the Technology Agreement and ANDA Agreement or entry into a satisfactory development agreement with a suitable research company; o raising additional capital to service debt and sustain operations; o successful development and testing of product candidates; o the receipt of required regulatory approvals relating to product candidates; o commercialization of our products; and o gaining a competitive position in the market. THE COMPANY WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, AND IF ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IS NOT AVAILABLE, THE COMPANY MAY HAVE TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OPERATIONS. To become and remain competitive, the Company will be required to make significant investments in research and development on an ongoing basis and the expansion of its recently acquired operation of manufacturing Over-the-Counter (OTC) and generic prescription drugs. At this time, the Company has committed sources of financing that the Company believes would allow a limited number of its products to be developed and commercialized and the manufacturing operations to be expanded. For the Company to be able to continue to use its technology or if termination by Nostrum of the Technology Agreement and ANDA Agreement is sustained, to locate or develop technology, or to develop future drug products, the Company will need additional capital beyond that committed. It is intended that this additional capital will be derived from future product sales, including products developed, manufactured and distributed by Kirk, cash derived from product license agreements with other pharmaceutical companies or future capital raised by means of debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that additional necessary financing will be attainable on terms acceptable to the Company in the future or at all. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, the Company may be unable to operate at its present level or develop and expand its business, develop new products or develop new markets at the rate desired, and its operating results may be adversely affected. Debt 22 financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. The availability of equity financing is uncertain, and successful equity financing would result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. The losses incurred to date, the uncertainty regarding the ability to raise additional capital and questions concerning the Company's ability to generate net income and positive cash flows from operations may indicate that the Company will be unable to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time. The Company's audit opinion, as of and for the three fiscal years ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 also indicates that there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. MANY OF THE PRODUCTS MANUFACTURED BY KIRK CONTAIN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, THE SUPPLY OF WHICH IS REGULATED. The raw materials used in many of the current Kirk products are controlled substances and are regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment (including import and export), storage, sale and use are subject to the highest degree of regulation and accountability. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements may result in action such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registrations, or proceedings to revoke those registrations and, in certain circumstances, criminal proceedings. If Kirk's registration were revoked, denied or suspended, it could no longer lawfully possess or distribute controlled substances, thereby having a material adverse effect on its operations. THE COMPANY'S FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY MAY LIMIT ITS ABILITY TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. Competition in the pharmaceutical area is intense, and the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company. It may be required to obtain development and/or marketing partners to effectively enter the drug market. We expect that competition in the field of drug delivery will significantly increase in the future since smaller specialized research and development companies are beginning to concentrate on this aspect of the business. Some of the major pharmaceutical companies have invested and are continuing to invest significant resources in the development of their own drug delivery systems and technologies and some have invested funds in such specialized drug delivery companies. Many of these companies have greater financial and other resources as well as more experience than we do in commercializing pharmaceutical products. The Company believes that its principal competitors are those that have a history of developing successful controlled-release drugs. Each of these companies has developed expertise in certain types of drug delivery systems, although such expertise does not necessarily carry over to developing a controlled-release version of all drugs. Such companies may develop new drug formulations and products or may improve existing drug formulations and products more efficiently than we can. In addition, almost all of our competitors have vastly greater resources than we do. While our product development capabilities, if the Technology Agreement and the ANDA Agreement are continued, and, if patent protection is secured to help us to maintain our market position in the field of advanced drug delivery, there can be no assurance that others will not be able to develop such capabilities or alternative technologies outside the scope of our patents, if any, or that even if patent protection is obtained, such patents will not be successfully challenged in the future. 23 Kirk's competition consists of many companies who are independent pharmaceutical drug manufacturers on a contractual basis and the pharmaceutical companies which have manufacturing capabilities and facilities, many of which have substantially greater financials and other resources. THE COMPANY MAY FAIL TO ESTABLISH OR CULTIVATE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS TO EXPAND ITS BUSINESS. The Company has stated its intent to develop its business model and build its business initially through strategic partnerships, initially with Nostrum. The principal focus of these relationships is the funding of product development (and regulatory approval when necessary), marketing, sales and co-promotion of its technology/products. Manufacturing, independent of Kirk, is also currently intended to be achieved through partnerships, either as part of a marketing agreement with other companies, or by contract with companies exclusive of marketing and sales. The Company may not be able to successfully form or manage such other partnerships, and if not, the Company's ability to execute its business plan will be at risk. Further, if these partnerships are formed but are not successful in their execution, further revenue derived from licensing payments or other such technology/product payments to the Company may not materialize. THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO MARKET ITS PRODUCTS IS SUBJECT TO THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES. The potential 505(b)(2) products the Company currently is considering to develop and market, and those that it may develop and market in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, Synovics' competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than the Company and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with the Company's ability to make, use and sell products either in the U.S. or international markets. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and the Company expects this to continue. IF SYNOVICS IS UNABLE TO FILE FOR APPROVAL UNDER SECTION 505(B)(2) OF THE FDCA OR IF IT IS REQUIRED TO GENERATE ADDITIONAL DATA RELATED TO SAFETY AND EFFICACY IN ORDER TO OBTAIN APPROVAL UNDER SECTION 505(B)(2), IT MAY BE UNABLE TO MEET ITS ANTICIPATED DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION TIMELINES. The Company's current plans for filing NDAs for its product candidates include efforts to minimize the data the Company will be required to generate in order to obtain marketing approval for its product candidates and therefore possibly obtain a shortened review period for the applications. The Company has not yet discussed or agreed with the FDA as to the nature or extent of any studies it may be required to conduct in order to achieve approval for any of its product candidates. The timeline for filing and review of NDAs is based on the Company's plan to submit NDAs under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, as a result of which the Company may rely in part on data in the public domain or elsewhere. The Company has not yet filed an NDA 24 under Section 505(b)(2) for any product candidates. Depending on the data that may be required by the FDA for approval, some of the data may be related to products already approved by the FDA. If the data relied upon is related to products already approved by the FDA and covered by third-party patents the Company would be required to certify that it does not infringe the listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable. As a result of the certification, the third-party would have 45 days from notification of certification to initiate an action against the Company. In the event that an action is brought in response to such a certification, the approval of the Company's NDA could be subject to a stay of up to 30 months or more while the Company defends against such a suit. Approval of the Company's potential product candidates under Section 505(b)(2) may therefore be delayed until patent exclusivity expires or until the Company successfully challenges the applicability of those patents to its potential product candidates. Alternatively, the Company may elect to generate sufficient additional clinical data so that it no longer relies on data which triggers a potential stay of the approval of its product candidates. Even if no exclusivity periods apply to the Company's applications under Section 505(b)(2), the FDA has broad discretion to require the Company to generate additional data on the safety and efficacy of its product candidates to supplement third-party data on which the Company may be permitted to rely. In either event, the Company could be required, before obtaining marketing approval for any of its product candidates, to conduct substantial new research and development activities beyond those the Company currently plans to engage in order to obtain approval of its product candidates. Such additional new research and development activities would be costly and time consuming. THE COMPANY MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO INCREASED GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH COULD INCREASE THE COSTS OR CAUSE THE COMPANY TO REVISE CERTAIN PRODUCT CLAIMS. The design, development and marketing of pharmaceutical compounds, on which our success depends, is subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA, and to a lesser extent, other federal and state government agencies. The FFDCA, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern the development, testing, manufacture, safety/effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of the Company's products. Non-compliance with applicable regulations can result in judicially and/or administratively imposed sanctions, including the initiation of product seizures, injunction actions, fines and criminal prosecutions. Administrative enforcement measures may involve the recall of products, as well as the refusal of an applicable government authority to enter into supply contracts or to approve new drug applications. The FDA also has the authority to withdraw its approval of drugs in accordance with regulatory due process procedures. The cost of complying with government regulations substantially increases the cost of producing the Company's products. FDA approval is required before any new drug can be marketed. The FDA requires extensive testing of new pharmaceutical products to demonstrate that such products are both safe and effective in treating the indications for which approval is sought. Testing in humans may not be commenced until after an IND exemption is granted by the FDA. A NDA or supplemental NDA must be submitted to the FDA both for new drugs that have not been previously approved by the FDA and for new combinations of, new indications for, or new delivery methods for previously approved drugs. FDA approval of an ANDA is required before a generic equivalent 25 of an existing or referenced brand drug can be marketed. The ANDA process is abbreviated in that the FDA waives the requirement of conducting complete preclinical and clinical studies and, instead, relies on bioequivalence studies which compare the applicant's drug with an already approved reference drug. These ANDA filings allow a company to avoid the expensive and time-consuming process of clinical efficacy and safety studies that are required for NDAs. The Company has received a letter, dated July 28, 2006 (the "Letter"), summarizing the findings of the periodic investigation by the FDA relating to Kirk, the Company's recently acquired subsidiary. The Letter relates a number of deficiencies in the quality control procedures and other processes of Kirk. Specifically and without limitation, the Letter describes discrepancies in manufactured batches of pharmaceutical products, internal review and record failures, failures to follow production and quality control guidelines, inadequate training of personnel, inadequate staffing, and inadequate laboratory controls and product labeling. As a result of the Company's due diligence investigation of Kirk prior to the closing of the acquisition, the Company generally anticipated the findings set forth in the Letter and is in the process of establishing corrective measures to ensure that the operations and procedures of Kirk address the deficiencies identified in the Letter and fully comply with relevant FDA requirements. No assurance can be given that full compliance will be achieved to the satisfaction of the FDA. THE COMPANY HAS A LIMITED HISTORY OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OR COMMERCIALIZATION OF DRUG PRODUCTS. The Company is in the course of developing four generic drug products through its Technology Agreement with Nostrum and acquired the ownership of an ANDA application, which was subsequently approved, as to another through its ANDA Agreement with Nostrum, both of which are the subject of a dispute arising from Nostrum's attempts to terminate the agreements. While the Company believes it can successfully accomplish the development, manufacturing and launch of products based on its licensed technology under the Technology Agreement and ANDA Agreement, if they are sustained, by raising additional capital to sustain its operations and service its debt, hiring requisite competent and experienced management and operational personnel, employing its relationship with Kirk or teaming with other pharmaceutical companies to create strategic partnerships at various stages of the process, there is no assurance that any or all of this can be accomplished to the degree necessary to ensure a successful drug development and commercialization operation. THE COMPANY FACES PRODUCT LIABILITY RISKS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE INSURANCE TO PROTECT IT AGAINST LOSSES. As a marketer of pharmaceutical products and dietary supplements that are intended to be ingested by consumers, even if sold to the consumer by a third party company and/or formulated in a third party company's product, the Company may be subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that its products contain contaminants or include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. While no such claims have been made to date, any future product liability claims and the resulting adverse publicity could harm the Company's business. If a successful product 26 liability claim or series of claims is brought against the Company for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, the Company's assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and its business operations could be impaired. BECAUSE OF THE SPECIALIZED NATURE OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS, THE TERMINATION OF RELATIONSHIPS WITH ITS KEY MANAGEMENT AND SCIENTIFIC PERSONNEL OR ITS INABILITY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL COULD PREVENT THE COMPANY FROM DEVELOPING ITS TECHNOLOGIES AND OBTAINING FINANCING. The Company is dependent on its management, particularly Drs. Ronald Lane, a founder and its Chief Executive Officer, and until he resigned as Chief Scientific Officer in January 2007, Nirmal Mulye, for all its business' and technology development activities. The Company is dependent on its ability to attract, retain and motivate a suitable Chief Scientific Officer replacement as well as a Chief Financial Officer and additional qualified personnel. The loss of the services of Dr. Lane or other executive officers and key employees could also have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company. IF THE SUPPLIERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF THE COMPANY'S INGREDIENTS ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTIES, THE COMPANY COULD EXPERIENCE PRODUCTION PROBLEMS. Many of the potential sources for Kirk's raw products or ingredients originate or are accessed in the Third World. Because of political or economic uncertainty associated with Third World countries, there may be catastrophic events including acts of God that could affect the reliability or dependability of sources so located. The Company has identified several potential suppliers of such raw products in various Third World countries. These potential suppliers, while evidencing current economical soundness and viable operations, are subject to these same uncertainties. There is no assurance, therefore, that in the face of catastrophic events in the Third World, these potential suppliers would be able to meet the product needs of the Company or of the Company's strategic partners. THE COMPANY MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY IN ENTERING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. The creation of strategic partnerships and the marketing and sale of the Company's pharmaceutical technology/products could experience difficulty entering international markets due to greater regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems and problems related to entering new markets with different cultural bases and political systems. Operating in international markets exposes the Company to certain risks, including, among other things: (i) changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may limit the Company's ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the United States; (ii) exposure to currency fluctuations; (iii) the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs; and (iv) political instability. If the Company expands into international operations, these and other risks associated with international operations are likely to be encountered. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to enter into agreements with international marketing partners and thereby would limit the expansion of its revenue base. 27 THE COMPANY RELIES ON PATENTS, LICENSES AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS TO PROTECT ITS PROPRIETARY INTERESTS. The Company's success depends in part on its continued ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering its products. The Company's current patent rights are held by its subsidiary LipoGenics and relate to dietary supplement and potential future new chemical entity drug development, which are not central to the Company's current business plan. There can be no assurance that the Company's licenses, patents and patent applications are or will be sufficiently comprehensive to protect these products. Although there can be no assurance, the Company may be successful in filing for patent protection for generic or 505(b)(2) products it develops in the future independent or together with the Nostrum technology. The process of seeking further patent protection can be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that the Company will have sufficient capital reserves to cover the expense of patent prosecution for its application or that all or even any patents will issue from currently pending or any future patent applications or that any of the patents when issued will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to the Company. While the Company believes the bases on which patent applications were filed correspond to the patents that have been issued for composition and method of production and use and are reasonable given the issuance of the latter patents, there can be no assurance that the patents for which it has applied will be issued. The Company may be subject to or may be required to initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Such proceedings could demand significant financial and management resources. The Company may receive communications alleging possible infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others. The Company believes that in most cases it could obtain necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but it may be unable to do so. In addition, litigation could ensue or damages for any past infringements could be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of efforts by the Company, may be necessary to enforce patents or other intellectual property rights of the Company or to defend the Company against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or litigation arising out of infringement claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company. THE COMPANY'S STOCK IS THINLY TRADED AND MAY EXPERIENCE PRICE VOLATILITY, WHICH COULD AFFECT A STOCKHOLDER'S ABILITY TO SELL THE COMPANY'S STOCK OR THE PRICE FOR WHICH IT CAN BE SOLD. There has been and may continue to be, at least for the immediate future, a limited public market for the common stock of the Company. On July 18, 2001, the Company's common stock was delisted from quotation on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market due to non-compliance with certain continuing listing requirements. From July 19, 2001 to February 28, 2003, the Company's common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "BNRX.OB." From March 1, 2003 to July 12, 2005, the Company's common stock was quoted on the "Pink Sheets" under the symbol "BNRX.PK". On July 13, 2005 the Company's common stock was approved by the NASD and appeared on the OTCBB with an unpriced quote. Three business days later, on July 18, 2005, HDSN showed a priced quote for BNRX.OB. Thirty days later, on August 15, 2005 all other market makers were eligible to appear on the OTCBB with their quotes, and have been quoted there through the present. 28 RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OF THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK WILL RESULT IN DILUTION TO OTHER HOLDERS OF ITS COMMON STOCK. As of February 14, 2007, there were no options outstanding under the Company's 1996 Stock Option Plan independent of the Rights granted under a Rights Plan discussed under the Risk Factor that follows this Risk Factor. An additional 570,000 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to the exercise of options that may be granted in the future under the Plan. As of October 31, 2006, the Company also has outstanding warrants not issued under the 1996 Plan to purchase up to 1,947,751 shares of common stock, as well as convertible promissory notes of $4,545,000 convertible into shares of common stock at $3.00 per share, unless adjusted by formula per the convertible promissory note agreements. During the terms of such options, warrants and convertible securities, the holders thereof will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of the common stock with resulting dilution in the interests of holders of common stock. The existence of such stock options, warrants and convertible notes could adversely affect the terms on which the Company can obtain additional financing, and the holders can be expected to exercise those exercise and conversion rights at a time when the Company, in all likelihood, would be able to obtain additional capital by offering shares of its common stock on terms more favorable to the Company than those provided by the exercise or conversions of the securities. The Company also has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of one or more series of convertible preferred stock. The issuance of those shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of outstanding shares of common stock and could have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO GAIN CONTROL OF THE COMPANY, EVEN IF THE ACQUISITION OF CONTROL WOULD BE IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS. The Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation and the Nevada General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of the Company, even when those attempts may be in the best interest of stockholders. Nevada law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with "interested stockholders" (as defined therein). The Restated Articles provide for a staggered board, which makes it more difficult for the stockholders to change the majority of the Company's directors. In addition, the Company's Restated Articles authorize the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect the voting power of the holders of its common stock. On September 8, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a Rights Plan, the effect of which is to grant stockholders of record as of September 8, 2006, in the event of a transaction which is not an exchange or tender offer to all the stockholders and is on terms and price which a majority of certain members of the Board does not determine to be adequate and in the best interests of the Company, its stockholders and other constituencies the right to acquire during the period ended September 8, 2011 for each share held of record one additional share of 29 Common Stock at a price equal to 33 1/3% of the then market price. The transaction is the acquisition by an "Acquiring Person" or group of such shares which would result in the person or group beneficially owing in excess of 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company or the acquisition of by a 20% or more owner or group of owners of an additional 1% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. The Plan also provides that in the event of a merger or other business combination in which the owners of all the outstanding shares prior to the transaction are not the owners of all the voting powers of the surviving corporation or in the event of a sale or transfer of more than 50% of the Company's assets or earning power the stockholders of the Company are to receive upon payment of the Purchase Price of $1,200 per share, shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the Purchase Price. The existence of such Plan will have the effect of making the Company less attractive in the market to candidates not approved by certain members of the Board and thus reduce the possibility of a transaction being effected for the sale of Common Stock of the Company or an asset or stock transaction which would result at a higher price than if the Rights Plan did not exist. THE BY-LAWS OF THE COMPANY HAVE BEEN RECENTLY AMENDED TO RESTRICT THE ABILITY OF STOCKHOLDERS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTION OF DIRECTORS AND THE PRESENTATION OF MATTERS AT STOCKHOLDER MEETINGS. On September 8, 2006, the By-laws of the Company were amended to provide that: (i) nominees for Director at the annual meeting by stockholders other than by the Board can be made only by written notice to the Board delivered within a designated period prior to the meeting and provided certain information as to the nominee and the stockholder making such nomination is given to the Board in such notice, and (ii) business at the annual meeting can be introduced by the Board of Director or only by those stockholders who provide written notice not less than 40 nor more than 90 days prior to the annual meeting, containing a description of the business and reasons therefore and certain information as to the stockholders. Such provisions restrict the ability of stockholders to nominate Directors and to introduce business as to the Company for consideration of the stockholders. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS SHOULD NOT BE RELIED ON BECAUSE THEY ARE INHERENTLY UNCERTAIN. Certain statements and information contained in this 10-K regarding matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined under applicable securities laws. These include statements concerning the Company's future, proposed, and anticipated activities; certain trends with respect to its revenue, operating results, capital resources, and liquidity, and certain trends with respect to the markets in which the Company competes or its industry in general. Forward-looking statements, by their very nature, include risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Accordingly, actual results may differ, perhaps materially, from those anticipated in or implied by such forward-looking statements. 30 