D. Risk Factors An investment in our Company involves a number of risks, some of which may be special or significantly different from risks that are normally associated with an investment in a U.S. company. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks in investing in our Company, along with the other information presented in this Annual Report. Significant losses in 2008 We incurred significant losses in 2008, which materially weakened our financial condition. Although we earned an operating profit of RMB128 million in 2007, our operating loss in 2008 was approximately RMB15.1 billion, which included losses on fair value movements amounting to approximately RMB6,256 million on our aviation fuel hedging contracts. Our net cash generated from operations decreased by approximately RMB225 million from RMB3,080 million in 2007 to RMB2,856 million in 2008. We cannot assure you that we will not continue to experience significant losses in the future. As a result of our weakened financial condition, we may be more vulnerable to the impact of unexpected events, the deterioration of the global and domestic economies and any significant increase in competition. 7 Impairments for Property Plant and Equipment In accordance with the relevant accounting standards, we are required to test certain of our intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In addition, we are required to test certain of our tangible assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In view of the decline in demand on the air transportation market under the current economic environment, we performed an impairment test on property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2008, based on which an impairment provision of RMB1,442 million was made against certain aircraft model and the related equipment which reflects their relatively lower operational efficiency and management’s intention to retire these aircraft in the near future. In determining the recoverable amounts of the related assets, our management has compared the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell of the related assets, primarily determined by reference to estimated market values. After assessing the fair value less costs to sell as at the balance sheet date which was primarily determined by reference to estimated market value, we made an additional impairment loss of RMB235 million against certain aircraft and related flight equipment which have been classified as “non-current assets held for sale”. We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted operating or cash flow losses and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. We cannot guarantee that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in any future period. The value of our aircraft could be adversely affected in future periods by changes in the market for these aircraft. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and result of operations in the period of recognition. Liquidity We have substantial debts, and will continue to have substantial debts in the future. In addition, we added, in 2008, a total of 19 aircraft to our fleet, including one A320 purchased by us and seven A320, five A321, one A330-200, three A330-300, one B737-700 and one B737-800 held under finance leases. In addition, we surrendered the lease of two aircraft, including one B737-300 and one B747F. See the section headed “Item 