Item 1A. Risk Factors Reliance on Single Product Line. Our Accelerated Reader software accounts for approximately 40% of our orders. In addition, services related to Accelerated Reader account for approximately 10% of our orders. An overall decline in sales of Accelerated Reader or related services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Geographic Concentration of Sales. A substantial portion of our sales is concentrated in Texas and California, each of which accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in 2009. If large numbers of schools or a district or districts controlling a large number of schools in such states were to discontinue purchasing our products and services, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Educational Institutions and Government Funding. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from sales to educational institutions, individual educators, and their other suppliers, which are heavily dependent on federal, state, and local government funding. In addition, the school appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. Budget cuts, curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities or general reductions in funding could reduce or delay our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by schools, which have been exacerbated by the current economic downturn and state budget deficits, could also slow or reduce purchases, which in turn could materially harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding, resulting from changes in legislation, both at the federal and state levels, changes in the state procurement process, changes in government leadership, emergence of other priorities and changes in the condition of the local, state or U.S. economy. Moreover, future reductions in federal funding and the state and local tax bases could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget shortfalls resulting in a decrease in educational funding. Any decreased funding for schools may harm our recurring and new business materially if our customers are not able to find and obtain alternative sources of funding. Alignment with Government Initiatives. If our products and services are not aligned with government sponsored education initiatives, or such initiatives do not endorse, or do not complement, the principles and methodologies underlying and associated with our products and services, demand for our products and services could decline. Philosophical Opposition to our Products and Services may Reduce Demand for our Products and Services and Harm our Reputation. Our products support all teaching methods and curricula by focusing on continuous feedback, increased student practice of essential skills, and demonstrated product effectiveness through measurable results. Certain educators, academics, politicians, and theorists, however, advocate philosophies of instruction that can lead them to oppose certain educational products or services. These philosophies can include, but are not limited to, opposition to standardized testing or over-reliance on the same; opposition to computers or motivational techniques and narrow focus on particular types of direct instruction. Such philosophical opposition to our products and services may result in the spread of negative views toward our product and services through traditional media, social networking, and the internet, which could result in reduced demand for our products and services. Customer Perception of Products and Services. Our customers’ perception of our products and services is dependent upon the achievement of positive results in customer schools. We provide our customers with implementation assistance, telephone support, professional development, and offer certification to schools and classrooms that employ best practices. If customers do not achieve positive results with our products and services, or do not receive the level of support that they expect, the reputation of our company and our products and services may suffer, which could result in a decline in our revenues. 11 Dependence on Continued Product Development. The educational technology and services markets in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards, frequent product introductions, and sudden technological change. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on a number of factors, including our ability to enhance our existing products, develop and successfully introduce new products in a timely fashion, and respond quickly and cost effectively to technological change, including: shifts in operating systems, hardware platforms, programming languages, alternative delivery systems, the internet and other uncertainties. There can be no assurance that new products will be as well received as our established products, particularly since they may require technology and/or resources not generally available in all schools. We attempt to maintain high standards for the demonstrated academic effectiveness of our products. Our adherence to these standards could delay or inhibit the introduction of new products. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our products will not be rendered obsolete or that we will have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments or be able to develop and market the products required to maintain our competitive position. Success of Product Strategy. Our product strategy is to convert our customer base from perpetually-licensed, locally-installed versions of our products to subscription-based versions of our products which are delivered over the internet. If we are unsuccessful in the execution of this strategy, we will incur significant additional costs and may lose customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Technology which we are Dependent upon May not Continue to be Available. Licensed technology may be embedded in our products, or be used to deliver products and services to our customers. Such technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or even at all. Additionally, third parties may claim that these technologies infringe upon or violate third party proprietary rights. These types of claims, regardless of the outcome, may be costly to defend and may divert management’s efforts and resources. We Use the Internet Extensively, and Federal or State Governments May Adopt Laws That Could Expose Us to Substantial Liability or Taxation in Connection With These Activities. As a result of increasing usage of the Internet, federal and state governments may adopt additional laws regarding commercial online services, the Internet, user privacy, intellectual property rights, content, and taxation of online communications. Laws directly applicable to online commerce or Internet communications are becoming more prevalent and could expose us to substantial liability. Furthermore, various proposals at the federal, state, and local levels could impose additional taxes on Internet sales. New laws and additional taxes may decrease Internet use or increase the costs thereof, and adversely affect the success of our online business. We Could Experience System Failures, Software Errors or Capacity Constraints, Any of Which Would Cause Interruptions in the Delivery of Electronic Products and Services to Customers and May Cause us to Lose Customers. Any significant delays, disruptions, or failures in the systems, or errors in the software, that we use for the technology-based component of our products, as well as for internal operations, could harm our business materially. We have occasionally suffered computer and telecommunication outages or related problems in the past. The growth of our customer base could strain our systems in the future and magnify the consequences of any computer and telecommunications problems that we may experience. Many of the systems that we use to deliver our services to customers are located in a single facility. Although we have a disaster recovery plan, it is reasonably likely that a disaster at our main data center would result in a significant disruption of services we provide to our customers. In addition, our products could be affected by failures associated with third party providers or by failures of third party technology used in our products, and we may have no control over remedying these failures. Any failures or problems with our systems or software could force us to incur significant costs to remedy the failure or problem, decrease customer demand for our products, tarnish our reputation or harm our business materially. Our Systems Will Face Security Risks That Could Compromise the Privacy of Our Customers. Our systems and websites face risks such as unauthorized access attempts by hackers, denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Although we have extensive security safeguards in place, no system can be completely safe from malicious attacks. Security breaches or problems could lead to misappropriation of our customers’ information, our websites, our intellectual property and other rights, as well as disruption in the use of our systems and websites. Any security breach related to our systems could tarnish our reputation and expose us to damages and litigation. We also may incur significant costs to maintain our security precautions or to correct problems caused by security breaches. These disruptions and interruptions could harm our business materially. 12 If either our Corporate Headquarters or Distribution Center are Damaged or Destroyed, We Could Experience Significant Disruption of Our Business. Our corporate headquarters, data center and the majority of our sales, marketing, and administrative operations are located in a single facility in Wisconsin. We store and distribute the majority of our hardware and printed materials in another facility in Wisconsin. In the event that either of these facilities are damaged or destroyed, our business would experience substantial disruption and there would be delays in the recovery of our data center, difficulties in providing services to our customers, the inability to take new orders for a period of time, and delays in shipping hardware and printed products to our customers. Our customers often make purchasing decisions very close to the beginning of the school year, and any delivery delays at that time of the year in particular could cause our customers to turn to competitors for products that they need immediately. Although we maintain adequate property insurance and business interruption insurance, the loss of customers could have a long-term, detrimental impact on our reputation and business. Reliance on Statistical Studies to demonstrate effectiveness of our Products and Services. We rely on statistical studies to demonstrate that our products and related services improve student achievement. We believe that these studies accurately reflect the performance of our products. These studies, however, involve the following risks: (i) the sample sizes used in our studies may yield results that are not representative of the general population of students who use our products; (ii) the methods used to gather the information upon which these studies are based depend on cooperation from students and other participants, and inaccurate or incomplete responses could distort results; (iii) schools studying the effectiveness of our products may apply different methodologies and data collection techniques, making results difficult to aggregate and compare; (iv) we facilitate the collection and analysis of data for some of these studies; and (v) we hire researchers to aggregate and present the results of some of these studies and, in some cases, to conduct the studies. There is growing demand from the No Child Left Behind Act and other sources for research and studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of educational programs and products. Our selling and marketing efforts, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted if the public, including our existing and potential customers, is not convinced that the product effectiveness is supported by the studies. Limited Protection of Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights. We regard certain of our technologies as proprietary and rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and employee non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We also employ serialization techniques to prevent unauthorized installation of our software products and related content. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our rights will be adequate to prevent or deter misappropriation or infringement. In addition, while we do not believe that our products, trademarks or other proprietary rights infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that a third party will not make a contrary assertion. The cost of responding to such assertions can be material, regardless of whether an assertion is validated. The software publishing industry has traditionally experienced widespread unauthorized reproduction of products in violation of intellectual property rights. Such activity is difficult to detect and legal proceedings to enforce intellectual property rights are often burdensome and involve a high degree of uncertainty and costs. There can be no assurance that our software products and the content will not experience unauthorized reproduction and distribution, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be Successful in Selling our Products and Services through new Sales and Distribution Channels or into New Markets, which may Limit our Growth. Our selling and marketing strategy includes the development of new sales and distribution channels. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering new markets and developing new sales and distribution channels. 13 Risks of International Expansion. A component of our growth strategy is the expansion of our operations in international markets. Doing business in international markets is subject to a number of risks, including, among others: acceptance by foreign educational systems of our approach to educational products; lack of existing customer base; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; potentially adverse tax consequences; tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; changing economic conditions; exposure to different legal standards (particularly with respect to intellectual property); burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If any of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Highly Competitive Industry. The educational technology and professional development markets in which we operate are very competitive and fragmented. We compete with other companies offering educational software products, computing devices, interactive response systems, professional development, and technology consulting services to schools. Education continues to emerge as a major global industry and potential competitors, including large hardware manufacturers, software developers, educational publishers, and consulting firms, may enter or increase their focus on the schools market, resulting in greater competition for us. In addition, we compete against more traditional methods of education, training, and testing, including pencil and paper testing. As we enter into new markets, existing competitors could increase the barriers to entry by driving prices lower or making modifications to enhance their products. Success in selling our established products and services may cause competitors to focus on us in their marketing efforts thereby increasing direct competition. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to market our products successfully or compete effectively in the educational marketplace. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued active participation of certain key members of management. We do not have employment agreements with these individuals and have no current intention of entering into any such employment agreements. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Ability to Attract and Retain Qualified Personnel. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our continuing ability to retain the employees, including senior management personnel, who have assisted in the development and marketing of our products and to attract and retain qualified employees trained in computer technology, sales, marketing, finance, and other disciplines to enhance our product offerings and broaden our operations. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to attract and retain such personnel. The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Fluctuations in Quarterly Performance. The transition to subscription-based products has increased the seasonality of customer ordering patterns. Compared to orders for non-subscription-based offerings, customer orders of our subscription-based offerings tend to more closely follow school budgeting cycles, resulting in a more seasonal order pattern weighted to the second and, even more so, third calendar quarters. Our overall gross margins also fluctuate based upon the mix of software, hardware, and service sales. We realize higher margins on our software product sales than our hardware and service sales. Some of our revenues tend to be seasonal due to annual school budget cycles, customer preferences as to when products and services are delivered and the timing of our larger professional development events, resulting in seasonal variations in margins. In addition, our quarterly results can also be affected by: • delays in the development and/or shipment of new products; • the closing of large contract sales, such as those to school districts; • changes in educational funding which can have a significant effect on quarterly results because customers may hold back orders in anticipation of funding or spend funds to meet defined funding deadlines; • the shipment of new products for which orders have been building for a period of time; 14 • charges related to acquisitions and divestitures, including related expenses, the write-off of in-process research and development, the amortization of intangible assets, asset impairments and similar items; • charges related to obsolete or impaired tangible assets, intangible assets, goodwill, capitalized software development costs and similar items; • supply-chain issues such as manufacturing problems, delivery delays, component shortages, strikes or quality issues; • expenses related to product development and marketing initiatives; and • seasonal variability of product support costs. Share Price Volatility. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include announcements of technological innovations and/or new products by us and our competitors, earnings releases and other announcements by us and our competitors, expectations regarding government funding levels for education, market conditions in the industry, announcements by us of significant acquisitions and/or divestitures, and the general state of the securities markets. The market price of our common stock may decline significantly if we fail to meet our forecasts or the published earnings estimates of analysts and others. In addition, quarterly fluctuations of our results of operations as described above may cause a significant variation in the market price of our common stock. War, Acts of War and Terrorism. Delays and reductions in purchases of our products and services may occur as a result of war, acts of war and terrorism, and the related impacts, including a reduction of funds available to our customers to purchase our products and services and disruptions in our ability to develop, produce and distribute products and services to our customers. These events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Concentration of Share Ownership; Control by Principal Shareholders/Management. As of February 22, 2010, our principal shareholders, Judith Paul and Terrance Paul, our chairman and chief executive officer respectively, and co-founders of the company, beneficially owned approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these principal shareholders have the ability to control and direct our business and affairs. Shares Eligible for Future Sale. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. As of February 22, 2010, approximately 16.0 million shares of our common stock were held by “affiliates” and may be publicly sold only if registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or sold in accordance with an applicable exemption from registration, such as Rule 144. In addition, we have filed registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 to register an aggregate of 6.0 million shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 1997 Stock Incentive Plan and an aggregate of 500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), which will, when issued in accordance with such plans, be eligible for immediate sale in the public market, subject to the Rule 144 resale limitations for affiliates. We did not offer the ESPP to our employees in 2007, 2008 or 2009 and have no intention of offering it in 2010. Cash Dividends. In each of the four quarters of 2009, we paid a cash dividend of $0.07 per share. Our dividend policy may be affected by, among other things, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels, acquisitions, legal risks and stock repurchases. Our dividend policy may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A change in our dividend policy could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 15 Possible Antitakeover Effects of Certain Articles and By-Laws Provisions and Provisions of Wisconsin Law. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws, along with Wisconsin statutory law, contain provisions that could discourage potential acquisition proposals and might delay or prevent a change in control of the company. Such provisions could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer and could result in the shareholders receiving less for their common stock than otherwise might be available in the event of a takeover attempt. Divestitures. From time to time, we may, for any number of reasons, determine it is in our best interests and in the interests of our shareholders to discontinue or dispose of a business or product line. Divestitures involve a number of difficulties and risks, including, among others, the diversion of management time and resources and the resulting disruption to our ongoing business, and unanticipated costs, and liabilities. If we are unable to manage the divestiture process successfully or if we are incorrect in our assumptions regarding the costs associated with a disposition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we Engage in Acquisitions, we may not Realize the Expected Benefits of Owning the Acquired Businesses and our Business could be Adversely Affected due to a Variety of Operational and Financial Risks. We evaluate strategic opportunities from time to time, including acquisitions. Acquisitions involve a number of difficulties and risks, including, among others: the failure to integrate personnel, technology, research and development, marketing and sales operations of the acquired company; the diversion of management time and resources and the resulting disruption to our ongoing business; the potential loss of the acquired company’s customers, as well as our own; and unanticipated costs and liabilities. Integration processes require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. If customers of the acquired company, or our customers, are uncertain about our ability to operate on a combined basis with the acquired company, they could delay or cancel orders for products and services. Moreover, we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction. If we fail to integrate an acquired company or business successfully, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, including the potential need to record a non-cash charge for the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 