ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this report, and the Group’s other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Group and its subsidiaries. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Group and its subsidiaries. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks described below or such other risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Puerto Rico’s current economic condition may have an adverse effect in the credit quality of our loan portfolio During the first two weeks of May 2006, the central government of Puerto Rico experienced a partial shutdown and closed a number of government agencies due to the insufficiency of current budgetary funds necessary to maintain the operations of the government through the end of the current fiscal year, which ends on June 30, 2006. The partial shutdown included the closing of Puerto Rico’s public schools and indirectly forced the closing of government offices at certain municipalities. Approximately, 95,000 public employees were placed on unpaid leave until an agreement in principle was reached between the Governor and the Legislature. As a result of the agreement, government officials have been discussing legislation that would provide new sources of tax revenues to the Commonwealth and allow it to repay a loan from the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico which was authorized to cover the current budgetary deficit. The current economic uncertainty that exists in Puerto Rico caused by the disagreements of the legislative and executive branches of the Puerto Rico government regarding the tax and fiscal reform and the budget approval, coupled with increases in the price of petroleum and other consumer goods, are aggravating concerns over the economic condition of the Commonwealth. The partial shutdown of government offices and public schools, the increase in petroleum prices, along with rising interest rates, may adversely impact employment and economic growth in Puerto Rico. These factors may have an adverse effect in the credit quality of our loan portfolio, as delinquency rates could increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Fluctuations in interest rates may hurt our business Interest rate fluctuations are the primary market risk affecting us. Changes in interest rates affect the following areas, among others, of our business: • the number of mortgage loans originated; • the interest income earned on loans and securities; • the value of securities holdings; and • gains from sales of loans and securities. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot maintain access to stable funding sources Our business requires continuous access to various funding sources. While we are able to fund our operations through deposits as well as through borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, and other alternative sources, our business may be significantly dependent upon shorter-term borrowings, such as repurchase agreements. The funding needed to maintain our growth strategy for our loan and investment portfolios is obtained, in large part, through repurchase agreements (“repos”) with maturities of one to three months. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements where we pay a fixed rate for a period of two to ten years, and receive a floating rate equal to one or three months LIBOR. These swaps are designed to hedge a portion of our exposure to changes in short-term interest rates on the repurchase agreements; thereby, allowing us to extend the maturity of the repo liability while renewing these agreements for additional terms. We believe the coverage provided by these hedges to be adequate to reduce our exposure to a rise in short-term interest rates. While we expect to have continued access to credit from the foregoing sources of funds, there can be no assurance that such financing sources will continue to be available or will be available on favorable terms. In the event that 18 Table of Contents such sources of funds are reduced or eliminated and we are not able to replace them on a cost-effective basis, we may be forced to curtail or cease our loan origination business, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Increases in interest rates reduce demand for new mortgage loan originations and refinancings Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage loans to consumers and reduce demand for mortgage loans, which negatively impacts our profits. Reduced demand for mortgage loans results in reduced loan originations by us, therefore generating lower mortgage origination income and lower gains on sale of loans. In addition, the demand for refinancing is particularly sensitive to increases in interest rates. Increases in interest rates reduce net interest income Increases in short-term interest rates reduce net interest income, which is an important part of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the interest received by us on our assets and the interest paid on our borrowings. Most of our assets, like mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, are long-term assets with fixed interest rates. In contrast, most of our borrowings are short-term, thus putting us in a liability sensitive position in terms of our balance sheet interest rate exposure. When interest rates rise, we must pay more in interest on our borrowings while interest earned on our assets does not rise as quickly, which causes profits to decrease. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of mortgage loans and securities holdings Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of our financial assets and have an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. We own a substantial portfolio of mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other debt securities which have both fixed and adjustable interest rates. The fair value of an obligation with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when prevailing interest rates rise, which may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we may suffer losses as we sell loans to reduce future interest rate exposure. The fair value of an obligation with an adjustable interest rate can be adversely affected when interest rates increase due to a lag in the implementation of repricing terms as well as due to interest rate caps, which may limit the amount of increase in the obligation’s interest rate. Earnings can be further impacted negatively by a flattening in the slope of the yield curve, which tends to increase interest expense as short-term rates increase, while maintaining long-term rates, which may present favorable terms for our clients to exercise their prepayment options on their mortgage loans. Declining interest rates could reduce interest income on cash and investments We make loans and invest in debt generally issued by the federal and Puerto Rico governments. If interest rates decrease, the interest income derived from any new loans or investments which have fixed or variable rates will be less than interest income previously derived when rates were higher. Additionally, if interest rates decrease, our interest income will also decrease during the term of a loan or investment that bears interest at a variable rate. Furthermore, reduced interest rates will result in a decrease in income on our cash and short-term investments. Therefore, a decrease in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During periods of declining interest rates, prepayment of debt underlying asset-backed securities can be expected to accelerate. Accordingly, our ability to maintain the yield anticipated from investments in asset-backed securities will be affected by reductions in the principal amount of such securities resulting from such prepayments, and our ability to reinvest the returns of principal at comparable rates is subject to general prevailing interest rates at that time. Prepayments may also result in the realization of capital losses with respect to higher yielding securities that had been bought at a premium or the loss of opportunity to realize capital gains in the future from possible appreciation. 19 Table of Contents Our decisions regarding credit risk and the allowance for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that our loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic or industry conditions; and in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors. Default frequency, internal risk ratings, expected future cash collections, loss recovery rates and general economic factors, among others, are considered in this evaluation, as are the size and diversity of individual credits. Our methodology for measuring the adequacy of the allowance relies on several key elements, which include specific allowances for identified problem loans, allowance by formula and an unallocated allowance. In the six-month period ended December 31, 2005, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1.9 million based on our overall evaluation of the risks of our loan portfolio. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is currently sufficient given the risk inherent in our loan portfolio, there is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore, we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. In addition, the FDIC as well as the OCFI may require us to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in our net earnings and capital and hinder our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to default and other risks in connection with our mortgage loan originations From the time that we fund the mortgage loans we originate to the time we sell them, we are generally at risk for any mortgage loan defaults. Once we sell the mortgage loans, the risk of loss from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures passes to the purchaser or insurer of the mortgage loans. However, in the ordinary course of business, we make representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers of mortgage loans relating to the validity of such loans. If there is a breach of any of these representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the mortgage loan. In addition, we incur higher liquidity risk with respect to the non-conventional mortgage loans originated by us, because of their longer maturities and lack of a favorable secondary market in which to sell them. Our exposure to overall credit risk will increase as a consequence of the increase in our commercial lending activities We have increased our emphasis on commercial lending, which is likely to increase our overall credit risk. Banks generally charge higher interest rates on commercial loans than on residential mortgage loans, because larger loan losses are expected in this business line. Generally, commercial loans are considered to be riskier than residential mortgage loans because they have larger balances to a single borrower or group of related borrowers. In addition, the borrower’s ability to repay a commercial loan depends on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan. If we experience loan losses that are higher than our allowance for loan losses, our profits and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are at risk because most of our business is conducted in Puerto Rico Because most of our business activities are conducted in Puerto Rico, and a substantial portion of our credit exposure is in Puerto Rico, we are at risk from adverse economic, political or business developments, including a downturn in real estate values, and natural hazards that affect Puerto Rico. If Puerto Rico’s economy experiences an overall decline as a result of these adverse developments or natural hazards, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, 20 Table of Contents bankruptcies and losses on loan portfolios would probably increase substantially. This would cause our profitability to decrease. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. We will encounter greater competition as we expand our operations. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect us We, as a Puerto Rico-chartered financial holding company, and our various subsidiaries, are each subject to federal and Puerto Rico governmental supervision and regulation. There are laws and regulations which restrict transactions between us and our various subsidiaries. Any change in such regulations, whether by applicable regulators or as a result of legislation subsequently enacted by the Congress of the United States or the Legislature of Puerto Rico, could have a substantial impact on our operations. Banking regulations may restrict our ability to pay dividends We may not be able to pay dividends in the future if we do not earn sufficient net income. Federal Reserve Board policy is that a bank holding company should pay dividends only out of its current net income. Federal and Puerto Rico banking regulations may also restrict the ability of Oriental Bank and Trust to make distributions to us. These distributions may be necessary for us to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock. Competition in attracting talented people could adversely affect our operations We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and we rely heavily on our management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Retention of senior managers and appropriate succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of our strategies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 