Item 1A. Risk Factors We will need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We will need to raise more money (in addition to the $10 million raised in March 2008 through the sale of a royalty stream as more fully described in footnote 18) to continue our planned operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern assumption in its audit report included in the Form 10-K. We may seek additional funds through public and private securities offerings, arrangements with corporate partners, borrowings under lease lines of credit or other sources, sale of assets or licensing of technology or intellectual property. If we can not raise more money, we will have to reduce our capital expenditures, scale back our development of new products, significantly reduce our workforce and seek to license to others products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves. The amount of money we will need will depend on many factors, including among others: • the amount of revenue we are able to generate; • the progress of our research and development programs; • the commercial arrangements we may establish; • the time and costs involved in: • scaling up our manufacturing capabilities; • meeting regulatory requirements, including meeting necessary Quality System Regulations (“QSRs”) and obtaining necessary domestic and international regulatory clearances or approvals; • acquisition(s) or investment(s) into other businesses; 9 Table of Contents • filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and litigation; and • the scope and results of our future clinical trials, if any. Additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of our 9.75% senior secured convertible notes issued in March 2008 (the “9.75% Notes”) and 6.25% senior convertible notes issued in August 2007 (the “6.25% Notes”, together with the 9.75% Notes, the “Notes”) contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to raise capital through additional financing unless we obtain consent from holders of the Notes, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such consents on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Under the terms of the 9.75% Notes, we are required to use a portion of the proceeds of certain financings to redeem the 9.75% Notes. Any additional equity financing will be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants and require significant collateral. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. Since our inception, we have incurred cumulative net losses which, as of December 31, 2007, total approximately $400.6 million. Moreover, our negative cash flow and losses from operations will continue for the foreseeable future. We may never generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. We also expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues, expenses and losses, which could be significant. We believe our future operating results may be subject to quarterly fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, acquisition, goodwill or other impairment charges, non-cash stock option expenses, market acceptance of our existing product offerings, and potential other products under development, including the whole-blood CHF product and diagnostics related to infectious disease, whether and when new products are successfully developed and introduced by us or our competitors, and the achievement of milestones under our collaborative agreements with various government and private agencies. The recognition of revenue under contracts, grants and sponsored research agreements will be subject to significant fluctuations in both timing and amount and therefore our results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the results of operations for any other period. To develop and sell our products successfully, we may need to increase our spending levels in research and development, as well as in selling, marketing and administration. We may have to incur these increased expenses before knowing whether our products can be sold successfully. If our products are not successfully developed or commercialized, we could be forced to curtail or cease operations. We are at an early stage of development. As of December 31, 2007, we had only a limited product offering that includes real-time PCR products and point-of-care diagnostic tests for cardiac disease. Our congestive whole-blood heart failure point-of-care test remains in development. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to complete the development, introduction or scale-up of manufacturing of our new products, or if our products do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, we would be forced to curtail or cease operations. Lack of market acceptance of our products and technology would harm us. Our success will depend upon our ability to continue to overcome significant technological challenges and successfully introduce our products into the marketplace. A number of applications envisioned by us may require significant enhancements to our basic technology platform. There can be no assurance that we can successfully develop such enhancements. Although we have developed a number of products as discussed above, we may not be able to further develop these products or to develop other commercially viable products. Even if we develop a product, it may not be accepted in the marketplace. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to 10 Table of Contents generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. We may also be forced to carry greater inventories of our products for longer periods than we may have anticipated. If we are unable to sell the inventory of our products in a timely fashion and at anticipated price levels, we may not become profitable. In addition, we may have to take accounting charges and reduce the value of our product inventory to its net realizable value. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those currently projected by us, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including our ability to: • convince prospective strategic partners and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies; • manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and at an acceptable cost; and • sell, place and service sufficient quantities of our products. In addition, our technology platform could be harmed by limited funding available for product and technology acquisitions by our customers, internal obstacles to customer approvals of purchases of our products and market conditions in general. Performance issues with our products may also harm market acceptance of our products and reduce our revenues. Commercialization of some of our potential products depends on collaborations with others. If our collaborators are not successful or if we are unable to find collaborators in the future, we may not be able to develop these products. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of some of our products requires us to enter into contractual arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees and others. Our success depends in part upon the performance by these collaboration partners and potential collaboration partners of their responsibilities under these arrangements. Some collaborators may not perform their obligations as we expect, and we may not derive any revenue or other benefits from these arrangements. We do not know whether our collaborations will successfully develop and market any products under our respective agreements. Moreover, some of our collaborators are also researching competing technologies targeted by our collaborative programs. Through SynX we were a party to a 2001 development and manufacturing agreement between SynX and Princeton BioMeditech Corporation (“PBM”) to jointly develop and market various point-of-care tests for certain biomarkers and protein targets. As of January 2006, we terminated all of our previous agreements with PBM and superseded them with renegotiated contracts. These contracts include a manufacturing and distribution agreement and a development agreement. We agreed to continue the joint development of a point-of-care test system that incorporates PBM’s proprietary technology, our proprietary reagents and an exclusive license between us and Roche Diagnostics GmbH. PBM is responsible for the development of an instrument that uses our reagents to determine the amount of target NT-proBNP present in a patient. We are required to develop and manufacture the reagents used in the instrument and supply them to PBM who manufacture the test device. We also have to conduct the testing of our reagents required to obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. Further, PBM has the rights to distribute the products in certain markets including the US. As a result, our success in the point-of-care market is dependent in part upon PBM’s ability to perform under these agreements. We may be unsuccessful in entering into other collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our products. In addition, disputes may arise over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. Our indebtedness obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. In March 2008, we completed a restructuring transaction for our 6.25% senior convertible Notes, or the unsecured notes, in which we exchanged an aggregate $12.9 million in principal amount of unsecured Notes with 11 Table of Contents our secured 9.75% Notes, with an aggregate principal amount of $15.5 million. As a result of this transaction, we increased the total amount of convertible debt outstanding, as well as the amount of interest payments under the Notes. Furthermore, we have agreed to make the following redemption payments on the 9.75% Notes: • beginning on April 1, 2008, we will pay monthly installment payment of $80,000 per month, which will increase to $160,000 per month after January 1, 2009; • following quarterly announcement of our earnings, we will redeem an amount of the 9.75% Notes equal to the greater of (i) $10,000 for each quarter prior to January 1, 2009 or $20,000 for each fiscal quarter after January 1, 2009 and (ii) the product of 5% (for each quarter prior to January 1, 2009) or 10% (for each quarter after January 1, 2009) multiplied by the consolidated product revenue of the Company for such prior fiscal quarter minus the aggregate monthly installment payment made for such quarter; • if we sell, transfers or dispose all or any part of its business, property or assets, we may be required to use 50% of the net cash proceeds over $3.5 million from such asset disposition to redeem the 9.75% Notes; and • if we offer or sell any of debt, equity, or equity equivalent securities, we may be required to use 20% of the aggregate net cash proceeds in excess of $10 million to redeem the 9.75% Notes. The increased amount of indebtedness and additional payments required to service our indebtedness impose a significant burden on our liquidity and cash flow. Should we be unable to satisfy our payment obligations under the 9.75% Notes, we may have to restructure or limit our operations. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt obligations and competitors that have better access to capital; and • restricting the availability of strategic alternative. We may not have sufficient funds to make required payments on the Notes. Our liquidity position is constrained by the operating losses from our business. In addition, we are not be able to pay interest on the Notes with shares of our common stock if the valuation of our stock is below $1.14 per share, in which case we will be required to pay interest in cash. Under the terms of the 9.75% Notes, we are also required to make certain monthly installment payments and quarterly catch-up payments to redeem the Notes. We are also required to apply a portion of net proceeds received from certain sales of assets and equity or debt financing to redeem the 9.75% Notes. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds to make the required interest, redemption and principal payments on the Notes when due, either at maturity, applicable installment payment dates, or upon the occurrence of various events of default or specified change of control transactions. If we do not have sufficient funds to make these payments, we will have to obtain an alternative source of funds, including sales of our assets or assets of our subsidiaries or sales of our equity securities or capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to meet our payment obligations under the Notes through any of these alternatives or that we will be permitted by our senior lenders to obtain funds through any of these alternatives. In the event that we are not able to make the required payments at maturity or otherwise, we will be forced to seek alternatives, including seeking additional debt financing or equity financing or a potential reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. We have granted a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets, including certain intellectual property. To secure our obligations under the Notes, we have granted holders of the Notes a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets and stock, including certain intellectual property assets. Upon an event of 12 Table of Contents default under the Notes, the holders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and penalty, to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the holders will have a first claim on our assets, including such intellectual property. If holders should attempt to foreclose on the collateral, it is unlikely that there would be any assets remaining after repayment in full of such secured indebtedness. Any such default and resulting foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to continue our operations. The Notes provide that upon the occurrence of various events of default and change of control transactions, the holders would be entitled to require us to repay the Notes for cash, which could leave us with little or no working capital for operations or capital expenditures, or force us to sell the collateral subject to the security interest granted under the Notes. The Notes allow the holders to require us to repay the Notes upon the occurrence of various events of default, such as the termination of trading of our common stock on a qualified stock market or quotation system or a breach by us of the covenants set forth in the Note, as well as specified change of control transactions. In such a situation, we may be required to repay all or part of the Notes, including any accrued interest, applicable premiums and penalties. Some of the events of default include matters over which we may have little or no control. If an event of default or a change of control occurs, we may be unable to repay the full price in cash. Even if we were able to prepay the full amount in cash, any such repayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our obligations under our Notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. In addition, we have granted holders of the Notes a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets and stock of our subsidiaries to secure our obligations under the Notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the holders would have the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to their security interest. Accordingly, our secured creditors would be entitled to have the debt owed to them satisfied from our assets before we could make any distribution to other stockholders. If we are not able to access the funds in the cash collateral account, it will adversely affect our cash flow, financial results and our ability to meet payment obligations. We have deposited $7.3 million of the total $20 million purchase price of the Notes in a cash collateral account for the purpose of securing the letter of credit issued in favor of the holders of the Notes. The funds in the cash collateral account, including interests earned, will be released to us only if we meet certain conditions to terminate the letter of credit. These conditions include, but are not limited to, all of the following: (i) the closing sales price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market equal to or exceeds $1.524 per share for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days; (ii) there is no event of default under the Indenture; and (iii) our common stock has not been suspended from trading on NASDAQ Global Market. There is no guarantee that we will meet all of the conditions for the termination of the letter of credit. In addition, there is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will reach the target level described above, and even if it does, there is no assurance that the price will maintain at such level for the required period of time. The price of our stock as of March 24, 2008 was $0.39 per share. If the price of our common stock does not meet this requirement or if we cannot meet any of the conditions, we will not have access to the funds in the cash collateral account, which will adversely affect our cash flow, financial results and our ability to meet payment obligations under the Notes. If our convertible notes do not convert to equity within its three year term, we will be forced to replace them with additional financing that may not be available on favorable terms. Our Notes have a three year term expiring in August 2010 and will need to be refinanced if not converted to stock before that time. There can be no assurance that financing will be available at that time, which would force the company to curtail or cease operations. The Notes contain features giving the company access to additional capital over the next several years dependent on the achievement of pre-determined stock prices. There is no 13 Table of Contents assurance that those conditions will be met. The Notes further restrict us from additional borrowing without permission of the note holders whose consent cannot be assured. We may continue to incur significant non-operating, non-cash charges resulting from changes in the fair value of our warrants and derivatives. In August 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement for the sale and issuance of $20 million in aggregate principal amount of the unsecured Notes which included warrants to purchase up to 17,322,833 shares of our common stock. These warrants, along with the conversion feature of the notes, have been recorded at their relative fair value at the inception date of the agreement and will continue to be recorded at fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date. Any change in value between reporting periods will be recorded as other income (expense) at each reporting date. The impact of these non-operating, non-cash charges could have an adverse effect on our stock price in the future. The fair value of the warrant and derivatives is tied in large part to our stock price. If our stock price increases between reporting periods, the warrant and derivatives become more valuable. As such, there is no way to forecast what the impact on other income (expense) will be in the future or what the future impact will be on our financial statements. We have agreed to certain limitations on our ability to sell our securities in future financings, which may restrict our ability to raise capital, and any future financing may require the consent of our note holders, who may be unwilling to provide such consent. We have agreed, for so long as any Notes or related warrants remain outstanding, that we will not issue or sell, subject to certain exceptions, shares of our common stock for a consideration per share less than the conversion price of the Notes or the exercise price of the such warrants immediately prior to such sale, if the effect of the issuance or sale is to cause the conversion price or exercise price to be adjusted below certain fixed floor prices, unless we first obtain stockholder approval. In addition, we have agreed, for so long as any Notes or related warrants remain outstanding, that we will not sell, subject to certain exceptions, securities with a conversion or exercise price that varies from the market price of our common stock. These limitations will restrict our ability to raise capital through equity or debt financing in the future, unless we obtain prior written consent from the holders of the Notes. There is no assurance that the holders will provide us with such consent. If we cannot raise more capital or obtain additional financings on terms satisfactory to us, we will have to reduce our capital expenditures, scale back our development of new products, significantly reduce our workforce and seek to license to others products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves, which will have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. Restrictive covenants in the Indenture and the secured Notes may limit our ability to expand our operations and capitalize on our business opportunities. The terms of the Notes include restrictive covenants which limit our ability to borrow money, create liens, dispose assets, transact businesses with affiliates, effect equity and debt financing and engage in certain other activities. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to expand our operations and capitalize on business opportunities. If we are unable to expand our operation or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. In addition, as described above, we are required to apply a portion of net proceeds received from certain disposition of assets and financing transactions to redeem the secured 9.75% Notes, which may limit our ability to capitalize on these opportunities. Conversion of the Notes and exercise of related warrants and issuance of shares of common stock in payment of interests on the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Notes. The conversion or exercise of some or all of the Notes and related warrants, respectively, and the issuance of shares of common stock in payment of interests on the Notes, could significantly dilute the ownership interests 14 Table of Contents of existing stockholders. The restructuring transaction completed in March 2008 also increased substantially the number of shares that may be issued upon conversion of the Notes by lowering the initial conversion price of the Notes from $1.27 per share to $0.68 per share, which will result in increased dilution. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. The CDC project may not continue beyond the previously funded phases. We received a $4.5 million contract from the CDC to cover the first two phases of a possible five phase development program totaling up to $12.5 million. We currently estimate that completion of the contract will require more than $12.5 million in funding. Future awards will be given at the discretion of the CDC. In making further contract awards, the CDC may consider the achievement of certain milestones in the current contract but there can be no assurance that we will successfully attain them. The exact reimbursement rates provided by the CDC are also subject to our performance of the contract under allowed rates of reimbursement and the ratio of internal versus outside supplier expenses. The CDC could modify our rates of reimbursement based on our actual performance. If we fail to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement under NASDAQ rules, we could lose our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, and the loss of listing will result in an event of default under our Notes. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and NASDAQ’s marketplace rules for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market require, among other things, that the bid price for our common stock not fall below $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive trading days. If our minimum bid price is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, under the current NASDAQ Global Market rules we will have a period of 180 days to attain compliance by meeting the minimum bid price requirement for 10 consecutive days during such compliance period. On November 27, 2007, we received a letter from NASDAQ Stock Market informing us that the closing bid price of our common stock was under $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, and that we have 180 calendar days, or until May 27, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement under NASDAQ rules. If the Company does not regain compliance by May 27, 2008, the NASDAQ staff will send us a written notification that our common stock will be delisted from NASDAQ Global Market. At that time, we may appeal the delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Panel, or we may transfer our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market if the common stock satisfies all criteria, other than compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, for initial inclusion on such market. In the event of such a transfer, we will be afforded an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price requirement while listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There is no guarantee that we will be able to regain compliance of the minimum bid price requirement under NASDAQ rules prior to May 27, 2008, nor can we be sure that we will satisfy the initial listing requirement of NASDAQ Capital Market in order to take advantage of the additional 180-day grace period to regain compliance. In addition, while stockholders have approved a measure to give our board of directors the authority to effectuate a reverse stock split of our common stock in order to raise the stock price, there is no guarantee that such reverse stock split will result in a higher stock price. Our stock price as of March 24, 2008 was $0.39 per share. Our failure to meet NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement may result in the delisting of our common stock, which will make our stock significantly less liquid and negatively affect its value. Delisting may also result in an event of default under our Notes and a breach of certain covenants with our warrant holders, which will have a material adverse effect on us. 15 Table of Contents If our acquisitions are unsuccessful, our business may be harmed. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired companies, technologies and product lines to complement our internally developed products. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • The possibility that we will pay more than the value we derive from the acquisition, which could result in future non-cash impairment charges such as the $59 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005; • Difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies, which may require significant attention of our management that otherwise would be available for the ongoing development of our business; • The assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; and • Difficulties in retaining key relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of the acquired company. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financing position. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, any additional equity financing, debt financing, or credit facility used for such acquisition may not be on satisfactory terms, and any such financing or facility may place restrictions on our business. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of our acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to record additional write downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which would adversely affect our operating results. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipate from our acquisitions of the diagnostic division of Amplimedical, the rapid cardiac immunoassay test business of Spectral Diagnostics, Epoch Biosciences, Inc., SynX Pharma Inc. or other acquisitions due to integration and other challenges. On May 1, 2006, we completed the acquisition of the molecular testing division of Amplimedical S.r.L. On February 6, 2006, we completed the acquisition of the rapid cardiac immunoassay test business of Spectral Diagnostics (“Spectral”). In April 2004, we completed the acquisition of SynX Pharma, Inc. (“SynX”), and in December 2004, we completed the acquisition of Epoch Biosciences, Inc. (“Epoch”). We expected that the Spectral and SynX product lines would accelerate our entry into the point-of-care market and that the Amplimedical and Epoch acquisitions would broaden our reach in the molecular diagnostic market. However, we cannot be certain that we will achieve these and other benefits which we expected from these acquisitions. The process of integrating these and other acquired companies requires, significant efforts and expenditures, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, administration and manufacturing. Combining our product offerings with those of acquired companies is a complex and lengthy process involving a number of steps in which we will seek to achieve increasing degrees of integration of our products. Additionally, Amplimedical is located in Italy, Spectral and SynX are located in Canada, Epoch is located in the state of Washington, and because our facilities in San Diego, California are or may be physically separated from facilities of other companies we acquire, it may be difficult for us to communicate effectively with, manage and integrate these employees and operations with the rest of the Company. If we are not able to integrate the operations of these acquired companies and businesses successfully, we may not be able to meet our expectations of future results of operations. Factors that will affect the success of these acquisitions and any future acquisitions include the following: • our ability to manage a more complex corporate structure that requires additional resources for such responsibilities as tax planning, foreign currency management, financial reporting and risk management; 16 Table of Contents • our ability to identify and retain key employees of acquired companies; • our ability to increase revenues due to the integration of the products and technologies of the acquired companies; and • our ability to operate efficiently following the completion of acquisitions and to achieve cost savings. Even if we are able to successfully integrate our acquired operations, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the SynX, Epoch, Spectral, or Amplimedical acquisitions, or any other acquisition. Our failure to achieve these benefits and synergies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competing technologies may adversely affect us. We expect to encounter intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our targeted application areas. We anticipate that our competitors in these areas will include: • companies developing molecular diagnostic tests; • companies developing point-of-care diagnostic tests; • health care and other companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers; • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; and • companies developing drug discovery technologies. If we are successful in developing new products in these areas, we will face competition from established companies and numerous development-stage companies that continually enter these markets. In many instances, our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than us. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than us and may offer discounts as a competitive tactic. In addition, several development-stage companies are currently making or developing products that compete with or will compete with our potential products. Our competitors may succeed in developing, obtaining clearance/approval from the FDA or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or potential products or that render our technologies and current or potential products obsolete. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that may prevent us from successfully commercializing products. Also, we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. The uncertainty of patent and proprietary technology protection may adversely affect us. Our success will depend in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing meaningful patent protection on our inventions, technologies and discoveries. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our technology, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others, or to obtain rights to third-party proprietary rights, if necessary. Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents. Our patent applications may not have priority over others’ applications, and even if issued, our patents may not offer protection against competitors with similar technologies. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights created thereunder may not 17 Table of Contents afford us a competitive advantage. Budgetary concerns may cause us to not file, or continue, litigation against known infringers of our patent rights, or may cause us not to file for, or pursue, patent protection for all of our inventive technologies in jurisdictions where they may have value. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing inventions to develop and maintain our competitive position. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets, or be capable of protecting our rights to our trade secrets. We seek to protect our technology and patents, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and contractors. Our employees may breach their existing confidentiality agreements and these agreements may not protect our intellectual property. This could have a material adverse effect on us. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to future litigation and cause us to be unable to license technology from third parties. Our commercial success also depends in part on us neither infringing valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties, nor breaching any licenses that may relate to our technologies and products. We are aware of other third-party patents that may relate to our technology. It is possible that we may unintentionally infringe these patents or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties. In the past, we and the companies we have acquired have received, and may in the future receive, notices claiming infringement from third parties as well as invitations to take licenses under third-party patents which have, in some instances, resulted in litigation, settlement of litigation and our licensing of third party intellectual property rights. In particular, the receipt of infringement notices by us may subject us to costly litigation, divert management resources and result in the invalidation of our intellectual property rights. These claims may require us to pay significant damages, cease production of infringing products, terminate our use of infringing technologies or develop non-infringing technologies. Further, any legal action against us or our collaborative partners claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our products and processes affected by third-party rights may require us or our collaborative partners to obtain licenses in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. These actions may also subject us to liability for damages. Although in the past we and the companies we have acquired have succeeded in settling some third party claims concerning alleged infringement of intellectual property rights, which settlements have involved the payment of royalties by us or such companies we have acquired, there can be no assurance that in the future we would be successful in settling such claims. In addition, there can be no assurance that, even if such settlements are achieved, that they would be on commercially reasonable terms or would not otherwise have a material adverse impact on the company’s business. We or our collaborative partners may not prevail in an action and any license required under a patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. There are many U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications held by third parties in our areas of interest, and we believe that there may be significant other litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Additional litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s efforts regardless of the result of the litigation. Additionally, the defense and prosecution of interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and related administrative proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. We may in the future become subject to other USPTO interference proceedings to determine the priority of inventions. In addition, laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as do laws in the U.S., which may subject us to additional difficulties in protecting our intellectual property in those countries. The regulatory clearances or approvals required to manufacture, market and sell our products are uncertain, and our failure to comply with such clearances and approvals could have a material adverse effect on our company. Unless otherwise exempt, in vitro diagnostic devices require FDA approval or clearance prior to marketing in the United States. Obtaining 510(k) clearance and premarket approval may be time-consuming, expensive and 18 Table of Contents uncertain. The regulatory approval or clearance process required to manufacture, market and sell our existing and future products is currently uncertain. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that our current products are subject to 510(k) clearance and premarket approval requirements or other similar procedures, our business may experience incremental costs, increased regulatory risks and production delays. In addition, we could be subject to: • the recall or seizure of our products; • total or partial suspension of the production of our products; • the failure of the government to grant premarket clearance or premarket approval for our devices or the withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals once granted to us; • substantial delay in the manufacture or sale of our current or future products; • limitations on intended uses imposed as a condition of approvals or clearances; or • criminal prosecution, civil penalties, other administrative sanctions or judicially imposed sanctions, such as injunctions. In August 2005 we received an untitled letter from the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device Evaluation and Safety (OIVD), a division of the FDA. The letter described the OIVD’s concern that the micro array NanoChip systems and certain related products sold as ASRs might be a closed system and therefore a medical device that requires a pre-market application. During the first quarter of 2006 we met with the FDA and made certain changes in our marketing materials and sales approach. In September 2006, the FDA published “Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Commercially Distributed Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs): Frequently Asked Questions” setting forth the FDA’s interpretation of the regulations governing the sale of ASR products. Subsequently, we received a second letter from the OIVD in which the FDA asserted that our micro array and multiplexed reagents require FDA pre-market review. In November 2006, we met with the FDA to discuss the second letter. In the fourth quarter 2007, we made the decision to exit the micro array business. Our remaining molecular ASRs are subject to the FDA’s new final ASR guidance document. We believe that our ASR products must be repackaged to meet the guidance and we may incur substantial costs in this repackaging effort. This will also divert resources from other efforts. Further, there can be no assurance that the repackaged ASR products would be acceptable to all of our customers. The regulatory approval process for, and compliance with regulations applicable to, our products may be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain. To the extent that our products require FDA or other regulatory approval or clearance prior to marketing, such regulatory approval process may be expensive, time-consuming, uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining or maintaining required approvals for the commercialization of our products, which may have a significant impact on our business. It generally takes at least three to six months from the time of submission or more to obtain 510(k) clearance, but the process may take longer if the FDA requests more data or asks other questions. The premarket approval process generally takes between one and two years from the time of submission but can take longer. Prior to submitting to the FDA a 510(k) clearance or pre-market application, we must spend time and money preparing the submission, including generating the necessary data. Regulatory clearance or approval of any of our products may not be granted by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Our failure to obtain required approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In other countries, the manufacture or sale of our products may require approval by local government agencies with missions comparable to the FDA’s. The process of obtaining any such approval may also be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We expect to submit some of our products in the future to the 510(k) clearance process or premarket approval process and, as such, expect to incur significant expenses in order to receive such clearances or approvals. We also cannot predict the likelihood of obtaining such clearances or approvals. The failure to obtain 19 Table of Contents such clearances or approvals could prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of certain of our products, and could cause the market price for our stock to decline. In addition, whether or not our products are subject to 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, we are subject to certain FDA regulations covering, among other things, manufacturing, promotion and medical device reporting. For instance, manufacturing facilities are required to adhere to the FDA’s current Quality System Regulations, including extensive record keeping and periodic inspections of our manufacturing facilities. Similar requirements are imposed by foreign governmental agencies. Compliance with these regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control. Failure to comply with such regulations at one of our manufacturing facilities could result in an enforcement action brought by the FDA, which could include withholding the approval of products manufactured at that facility or all facilities registered with the FDA under our name. On July 17, 2007, our Point-of-Care Division received a warning letter from the FDA following an earlier inspection of the division’s facility in Toronto, Canada in February 2007. The letter cited violation of the FDA’s Current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements of the Quality System Regulations with respect to the manufacture, packing and installation of products in our cardiac business: Cardiac STATus, Decision Point and i-Lynx. Since the inspection in February 2007, we have undertaken steps to address these concerns, and will continue to take appropriate corrective and preventive actions in response to the warning letter. There is no guarantee that we will correct all of the violations cited in the letter to the satisfaction of the FDA. Failure to do so may result in further regulatory actions, including suspension of sales of our Point-of-Care products in the United States and delay in the granting of pre-market approval applications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may need to expend substantial funds and efforts implementing corrective measures and maintaining our Toronto facility in compliance with the FDA’s regulatory requirements. If we are unable to manufacture products on a commercial scale, our business may suffer. We manufactured the majority of our products sold in 2007. In the future, we anticipate significant new sales in point-of-care quantitative tests that will be manufactured by PBM. We and PBM rely on subcontractors to manufacture the limited quantities of components we require for use by and sale to our customers, as well as for internal and collaborative purposes. Manufacturing, supply and quality control problems may arise as we or PBM either alone, together or with subcontractors, attempt to further scale up manufacturing procedures or to manufacture new products. We or PBM may not be able to scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost. Problems could lead to delays or pose a threat to the ultimate commercialization of our products and cause us to fail. We or PBM or any of our contract manufacturers could encounter manufacturing difficulties, including those relating to: • the ability to scale up manufacturing capacity; • production yields; • quality control and assurance; or • shortages of components or qualified personnel. Our manufacturing facilities and those of PBM and any other of our contract manufacturers are or will be subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal, state and international regulatory agencies and these facilities are or may become subject to Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements of the FDA. If we, PBM or other third-party manufacturers we utilize, fail to maintain facilities in accordance with QSR regulations, other international quality standards or other regulatory requirements, then the manufacture process could be suspended or terminated which would harm us. 20 Table of Contents Our dependence on suppliers for materials could impair our ability to manufacture our products. Outside vendors provide key components and raw materials used by us and PBM in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that alternative sources for these components and raw materials are available, any supply interruption in a limited or sole source component or raw material would harm our and PBM’s ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified, including qualification under applicable FDA regulations. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier’s variation in a component or raw material, either unknown to us or PBM or incompatible with our or PBM’s manufacturing processes, could harm our or PBM’s ability to manufacture our products. We or PBM may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we or PBM fail to obtain a supplier for the manufacture of components of our products, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. Lead times for obtaining materials and components for our products and the manufacturing and introduction of our products may vary significantly which could lead to excess inventory levels as well as shortages of critical components and products if our supply and demand forecasts are inaccurate. We anticipate that our products, including our ASRs and most of our other products will be manufactured and introduced by us and third parties, if any, based on forecasted demand and that we will seek to purchase components and materials in anticipation of the actual receipt of purchase orders from our customers. Lead times for materials and components to be included in our products vary significantly and may depend on factors such as the business practices of each specific supplier and the terms of the particular contracts, as well as the overall market demand for such materials and components at any given time. Also, we often rely on our own and third party forecasted demand for various products and the accuracy of such forecasts may depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, government reports and recommendations for certain genetic testing, regulatory burdens, competitive products, the nature and effectiveness of our products, the timing and extent of the introduction of our products into the marketplace and other factors. If the forecasts are inaccurate, we could experience fluctuations in excess inventory of our products, or shortages of critical components or products, either of which could cause our business to suffer. We currently rely on one manufacturer for some of our point-of-care products, and such reliance may delay the manufacture and shipment of our products to customers. We have an exclusive manufacturing agreement with PBM for the manufacture of certain future point-of-care products, including CHF tests. Because we are solely dependent on one company for the manufacture of these products, any disruption in the company’s business or in our relationship with the company may have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent we have adverse developments in our relationship with PBM, or to the extent we develop contractual disputes, it may have an adverse impact on our business, our ability to implement existing products or launch new products. In particular, to the extent we seek to amend, modify or extend or otherwise change aspects of our contractual relationship with PBM, we may experience manufacturing delays associated with negotiating the terms of those arrangements and other related complications. If we determine to curtail or terminate our manufacturing relationship with PBM, a lengthy process would be required to negotiate and begin work under a manufacturing agreement with a new manufacturer which could disrupt our manufacturing process and harm our business. Furthermore, the manufacturing of certain point-of-care products, including CHF tests, depends on certain intellectual property owned by PBM and licensed by PBM from third parties, and we may not be able to manufacture or find an alternative manufacturer of the design of these products without this intellectual property, which would severely impact our point-of-care products. Failure to expand our international sales as we intend would reduce our ability to become profitable. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will be made outside the United States. A successful international effort will require us to develop relationships with international customers and partners. We may 21 Table of Contents not be able to identify, attract or retain suitable international customers and distribution partners. As a result, we may be unsuccessful in our international expansion efforts. Furthermore, expansion into international markets will require us to continue to establish and expand foreign sales and marketing efforts, hire additional sales and marketing personnel and maintain good relations with our foreign customers and distribution partners. International operations involve a number of risks not typically present in domestic operations, including: • currency fluctuation risks; • changes in regulatory requirements; • political and economic instability, including the war on terrorism; and • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign offices. In addition, we expect increased costs in deploying products in foreign countries due to: • licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; • costs and difficulties in establishing and maintaining foreign distribution partnerships; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties. Our international sales and marketing efforts will also be subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether tariffs or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. We may lose money when we exchange foreign currency received from international sales into U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our business is expected to be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business will cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and may cause fluctuations in our operating results. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We currently do not engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure. We may have significant product liability exposure. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that our technologies or products are alleged to have caused harm. These risks are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products. In addition, we began a targeted acquisition strategy during 2004, and our due diligence of acquired companies may fail to reveal material risks relating to product liabilities of such companies. Any product liability claim brought against us could be expensive to defend and could result in a diversion of management’s attention from our core business. We may be required to pay substantial damages in connection with any product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may not be able to maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance at reasonable cost or reasonable terms. Excessive insurance costs or uninsured claims would add to our future operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may not be able to pursue collaborations or develop our own products. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our scientific, manufacturing, marketing, administrative, management and executive personnel, the loss of whose services might significantly delay or 22 Table of Contents prevent the achievement of our objectives. We face competition from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations in attracting and retaining personnel. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, we experienced turnover rates of 14%, 13%, and 17%, respectively. Turnover at these rates may continue and, if they continue, may adversely affect us. The turnover rates above exclude the impact of reductions in workforce. In November 2007, we announced a phased reduction in force of approximately 18%, and incurred severance related expenses of $800,000. In September 2007, we announced a reduction of approximately 4% of our workforce and incurred severance related expenses of approximately $305,000 in the third quarter of 2007. In October 2006, we announced a reduction of approximately 15% of our workforce and incurred severance related expenses of approximately $500,000 in the fourth quarter of 2006. Future layoffs could have an adverse effect on us and on our ability to retain critical staff. Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may adversely affect our business. In recent years, health care payors as well as federal and state governments have focused on containing or reducing health care costs. We cannot predict the effect that any of these initiatives may have on our business, and it is possible that they will adversely affect our business. Health care cost containment initiatives focused on genetic testing could cause the growth in the clinical market for diagnostic testing to be curtailed or slowed. In addition, health care cost containment initiatives could cause pharmaceutical companies to reduce research and development spending. In either case, our business and our operating results would be harmed. In addition, diagnostic testing in clinical settings is often billed to third-party payors, including private insurers and governmental organizations. If our current and future clinical products are not considered cost-effective by these payors, reimbursement may not be available to users of our products. In this event, potential customers would be much less likely to use our products and our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. In addition, sales of our future products may depend, in large part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement to users of those products from government insurance plans, managed care organizations and private insurance plans. Physicians’ recommendations to use our products may be influenced by the availability of reimbursement by insurance companies and other third-party payors. There can be no assurance that insurance companies or third-party payors will provide coverage for our products or that reimbursement levels will be adequate for the reimbursement of the providers of our products. In addition, outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary from country to country and there can be no assurances that third-party reimbursement will be made available at an adequate level, if at all, for our products under any other reimbursement system. Lack of or inadequate reimbursement by government or other third-party payors for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of genetic information become widespread, we may have less demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding confidentiality and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities may call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our products, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials including, but not limited to, biological hazardous materials and radioactive compounds. We are 23 Table of Contents subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Our stock price could continue to be highly volatile and our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other life sciences companies, has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • delisting, or risk of delisting, from the NASDAQ Global Market; • period-to-period fluctuations in sales, inventories and our operating results; • asset impairment charges, including goodwill and other intangible assets; • adoption of new stock option expensing rules; • the announcement of issues involving our liquidity; • that announcement of product development failures; • the announcement of financing or acquisitions that dilutes our equity; • conversion, restructuring, repricing or exercise of a significant amount of our Notes or related warrants; • the results of our premarket studies and clinical trials or those of our collaborators or competitors or for diagnostic testing in general; • evidence of the safety or efficacy of our potential products or the products of our competitors; • the announcement by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new products; • announcements by us of government or private grants or contracts or of failure to obtain such government or private grants or contracts; • announcements by us of involvement in litigation; • developments concerning our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors, including other litigation or patent office proceedings; • loss of key board, executive, management or other personnel or the increase or decrease in size of our sales and marketing staff; • governmental regulatory actions or the failure to gain necessary clearances or approvals; • our ability to obtain necessary licenses; • changes or announcements in reimbursement policies; • developments with our subsidiaries and collaborators; • changes in or announcements relating to acquisition programs for our products, including the expiration or continuation of our development site agreements; • market conditions for life science stocks, nanotechnology stocks and other stocks in general; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts and the loss of coverage by one or more securities analysts; 24 Table of Contents • the announcement by us of any stock repurchase plan, any purchases made thereunder by us and any cessation of the program by us; and • changes in the United States’ war on terrorism and other geopolitical and military situations in which the country is involved. As of December 31, 2007, we identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investors may be misled and lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures, and the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A “significant deficiency” means a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the Company’s financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting for the Annual Report on Form 10-K, as further described in Item 9A, we and our independent registered public accounting firm determined that as of December 31, 2007 our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective due to material weaknesses in the financial statement close process and inventory valuation process. These material weaknesses were caused primarily by the following: • inadequate management oversight of the financial statement close process; and • an insufficient number of staff accountants with a sufficient level of knowledge; • insufficient controls over assessing inventory values including reserve requirements. In addition, continuing assessment or subsequent assessment by us and our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal additional deficiencies in our internal controls, some of which may require disclosure in future reports. Although we have made and are continuing to make improvements in our internal controls, if we are unsuccessful in remediating the material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, or if we discover other deficiencies or material weaknesses, it may adversely impact our ability to report accurately and in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations in the future, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce accurate, reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we continue to have deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, these deficiencies may negatively impact our business and operations. Our anti-takeover provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. The approval of two-thirds of our voting stock is required to take some stockholder actions, including the amendment of any of the anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation or amendment of our bylaws. Further, pursuant to the terms of our stockholder rights plan adopted in November 1998, as amended, we have distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeover attempts. 25 Table of Contents Our business is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, have continued to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. In addition, as a result of the deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, we will incur significant professional fees and other expenses to implement remedies and prepare our consolidated financial statements in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Until our remediation is completed, we will continue to incur these additional costs and management burdens, which may divert valuable resources from our business operations. The closure of our micro array business may result in loss of revenue due to returns by existing customers and subject us to potential claims by such customers During the fourth quarter of 2007, we made a decision to close our micro array business, which will result in the cessation of the manufacturing and distribution of our molecular array-based testing products, including the NanoChip instrument system and related multiplexed reagents and other supporting hardware. The termination of these production activities may prompt our existing molecular array-based diagnostic customers to return their products and demand refunds, which will negatively impact our revenue and cash flow. The closure may also disrupt the business operation of our existing customers and cause them to suffer financial loss. These customers may decide to file claims against us to recover such losses, and we may be required to divert valuable resources to defend such claims and incur significant cost, which will have an adverse effect on our business operations. Terrorist attacks, war, natural disasters and other catastrophic events may negatively impact aspects of our operations, revenue, costs and stock price. Threats of terrorist attacks in the United States of America, as well as future events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks or threats against United States of America targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States of America or its allies, including the on-going U.S. conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, further conflicts in the Middle East and in other developing countries, or military or trade disruptions affecting our domestic or foreign suppliers of merchandise, may impact our operations. Our operations also may be affected by natural disasters or other similar events, including floods, hurricanes, earthquakes or fires. Our California and Washington facilities, including our corporate offices and principal product development facilities, are located near major earthquake faults. The potential impact of any of these events to our operations includes, among other things, delays or losses in the delivery of products by us and decreased sales of such products. Additionally, any of these events could result in increased volatility in the United States of America and worldwide financial markets and economies. Also, any of these events could result in economic recession in the United States of America or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenue and costs and may result in the volatility of the future market price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) has reviewed and issued comments pertaining to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2007. As of the date of this filing, there were unresolved comments related to our accounting for a variable interest entity originally consolidated in the quarter ending September 30, 2005. After thorough consideration of the questions and comments raised in the SEC review process relating to accounting treatment for the variable interest entity, on March 28, 2008, our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, in consultation with management and our independent registered public accounting firm, concluded that certain adjustments are required to properly apply the consolidation methodology under FIN46(R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” The adjustments required to correct the previously issued financial statements primarily related to complying with a requirement to: record the fair value of assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests of the variable interest entity at the time of initial consolidation rather than recording the book value on the date of initial consolidation; and, to allocate operating losses in future periods to noncontrolling interests. We have restated our consolidated financial statements for the impacted periods herein, have labeled periods impacted “As Restated,” and have provided expanded quarterly financial information in footnote 2 to the financial statements herein reconciling the restated quarterly consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations to previously filed quarterly financial information. Although we believe the restatement made to our historical financial statements will address the comments raised by the SEC, as of the date of this filing the comments are still unresolved. 