Risk Factors The risk factors listed below, in addition to those described elsewhere in this report, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Risks Related to Our Company We incurred significant losses in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, and may incur such losses in the future. If we continue to incur significant losses or are unable to generate sufficient working capital from our operations or our revolving credit facility, we may have to seek additional external financing. As reflected in our consolidated financial statements, we incurred net losses applicable to common shareholders of $24.1 million, $109.1 million and $5.9 million in our fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. While we are taking action to become profitable, if we are unable to improve our operating performance, we may incur additional losses. We depend on our core businesses to generate profits and cash flow to fund our working capital growth. Although the services that we provide are spread across a variety of industries, disruptions such as a general economic downturn or higher interest rates could negatively affect the demand for our services across a variety of industries which could adversely affect our ability to generate profits and cash flows. We finance our operations through cash generated by operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. That credit facility contains covenants which, among other things, require us to maintain minimum levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization as defined in the credit agreement ("EBITDA"), maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and maintain a minimum level of backlog. While we have not used the credit facility since the June 2009 preferred stock offering, we would be dependent on this facility for any short term liquidity needs if available cash and cash equivalents and cash provided by operations are not adequate to support working capital requirements. The recent and unprecedented disruption in the credit markets has had a significant adverse impact on a number of financial institutions resulting in, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Refinancing of the credit facility would be more difficult in the near term, especially in light of the current state of the credit markets, because there are fewer financial institutions that have the capacity or willingness to lend. We have not experienced any material impacts to liquidity or access to capital as a result of the current conditions in the financial and credit markets. During fiscal 2009 we completed a preferred stock offering with gross proceeds of $15.5 million. We believe that existing cash resources, cash forecasted to be generated from operations and availability under our credit facility are adequate to meet our requirements for the foreseeable future. Management cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further or continued disruption in the capital markets. The deterioration of the economic conditions in the United States was broad and dramatic. The current adverse state of the economy and the possibility that economic conditions could continue to deteriorate may affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. While management cannot directly measure it, the credit crisis may affect the ability of our customers and vendors to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in their business with us which could adversely affect our ability to generate profits and cash flows. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions. Management will continue to closely monitor the credit markets and our financial performance. 12 Table of Contents If we must write off a significant amount of intangible assets or long-lived assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted. Goodwill was approximately $35.1 million as of June 30, 2009. We also had other identifiable intangible assets of $2.3 million, net of accumulated amortization as of June 30, 2009. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $19.3 million and an intangible asset impairment charge of $2.1 million. Changes in the fair value of our common stock and other factors may result in additional impairments of goodwill or other assets which would negatively impact our earnings. We are and will continue to be involved in litigation. Legal defense and settlement expenses can have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We have been, and likely will be, named as a defendant in legal actions claiming damages and other relief in connection with engineering and construction projects and other matters. These are typically actions that arise in the normal course of business, including employment-related claims, contractual disputes, professional liability, or claims for personal injury or property damage. We have substantial deductibles on several of our insurance policies, and not all claims are insured. In addition, we have also incurred legal defense and settlement expenses related to prior acquisitions. Accordingly, defense costs, settlements and potential damage awards have been material in the past and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows in future periods. Subcontractor performance and pricing could expose us to loss of reputation and additional financial or performance obligations that could result in reduced profits or losses. We often hire subcontractors for our projects. The success of these projects depends, in varying degrees, on the satisfactory performance of our subcontractors and our ability to successfully manage subcontractor costs and pass them through to our customers. If our subcontractors do not meet their obligations or we are unable to manage or pass through costs, we may be unable to profitably perform and deliver our contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and expend additional resources to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations have resulted in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to certain projects. In addition, the inability of our subcontractors to adequately perform or our inability to manage subcontractor costs on certain projects could hurt our competitive reputation and ability to obtain future projects. Our operations could require us to utilize large sums of working capital, sometimes on short notice and sometimes without the ability to recover the expenditures. Circumstances or events which could create large cash outflows include losses resulting from fixed-price contracts, remediation of environmental liabilities, legal expenses, project completion delays, failure of clients to pay, income tax assessments including payments that may arise pursuant to the ongoing 2003-2008 Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit if not resolved successfully, and professional liability or claims, among others. We cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity or the credit capacity to meet all of our cash needs if we encounter significant working capital requirements as a result of these or other factors. 13 Table of Contents Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and it may be difficult or more costly to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage. Our services involve significant risks that may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. Our business activities expose us to potential liability for professional negligence, personal injury and property damage among other things. We cannot always predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. In addition, our ability to perform certain services is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate insurance. We obtain insurance from insurance companies to cover a portion of our potential risks and liabilities subject to specified policy limits, deductibles or coinsurance. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay an excessive amount for the insurance coverage we want, or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. As a result of the recent events in the financial markets, we face additional risks due to the continuing uncertainty and disruption in those markets. Much of our commercial insurance is underwritten by the regulated insurance subsidiaries of Chartis (formerly the American International Group). Chartis has also underwritten almost all of the cost cap and related insurance purchased by Exit Strategy clients which share some specific characteristics that present additional risk. The Exit Strategy related policies all tend to be long term; several are ten years or more. Finally, some policies also serve to satisfy state and federal financial assurance requirements for certain projects. Without these policies alternative financial assurance arrangements for these projects would need to be arranged. Additionally, most of our Exit Strategy projects require us to perform the work regardless of the availability of insurance, directly exposing us to financial risks without the benefit of insurance. Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims. Our engagements involve a variety of projects, some of which are large-scale and complex. Our performance on projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. If we miscalculate, or fail to properly manage, the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time we need to meet contractual obligations, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, any defects, errors or failures to meet our clients' expectations could result in claims against us. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profits. We account for a significant portion of our contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Generally, our use of this method results in recognition of revenue and profit ratably over the life of the contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and estimated costs, including the achievement of award and other fees, is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. The uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary from estimates, or estimates to change, resulting in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit. Such differences could be material. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include: underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, 14 Table of Contents delays, price increases for materials, poor project management or quality problems, and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Accounting for a fixed-price contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue and estimated costs as well as technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall revenue or costs on a contract, we may experience a lower profit or incur a loss on the contract. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments, and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results. Our contract backlog based on net service revenue as of June 30, 2009 was approximately $247 million. We cannot guarantee that the net service revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur from time to time with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. Risks Related to Our Industry We are dependent on continued regulatory enforcement. While we increasingly pursue economically driven markets, our business is materially dependent on the continued enforcement by federal, state and local governments of various environmental regulations. Changes in environmental standards or enforcement, could adversely impact our business. We operate in highly competitive industries. The markets for many of our services are highly competitive. There are numerous professional architectural, engineering and consulting firms and other organizations which offer many of the services offered by us. We compete with many companies, some of which have greater resources. Competitive factors include reputation, performance, price, geographic location and availability of technically skilled personnel. In addition, we face competition from the use by our clients of in-house staff. Changes in existing environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services that may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. 15 Table of Contents We are materially dependent on contracts with federal, state and local governments. We estimate that contracts with agencies of the United States government and various state and local governments represent approximately 20% of our net service revenue. Therefore, we are materially dependent on various contracts with such governmental agencies. Companies engaged in government contracting are subject to certain unique business risks. Among these risks are dependence on appropriations and administrative allotment of funds as well as changing policies and regulations. These contracts may also be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination at the option of the government. The stability and continuity of that portion of our business depends on the periodic exercise by the government of contract renewal options, our continued ability to negotiate favorable terms and the continued awarding of task orders to us. Other Risks The value of our equity securities could continue to be volatile. Over time our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price characteristics of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: •Our financial results, including revenue, profit, days sales outstanding, backlog, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; •Announcements by us or our competitors of significant events, including acquisitions; •Threatened or pending litigation; •Changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of our business or any of our competitors' businesses; •Investors' and analysts' assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; •Changes in legislation; •Broader market fluctuations; and •General economic or political conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees. Many of these key employees are granted stock options and restricted stock, the value of which is dependent on our stock price. We may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. Our adoption of, and compliance with, changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. We are highly dependent on key personnel. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We need talented and experienced personnel in a number of areas to support our core business activities. An inability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel could harm our business. Turnover among certain critical staff could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our 16 Table of Contents strategies and on our results of operations. There is currently a shortage of technical and engineering personnel. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could continue to negatively impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately. We have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2009 based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of the material weakness, see Item 9A, "Management's Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting." The material weakness results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the material weakness identified, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected. Moreover, other material weaknesses may be identified. As noted in Item 9A, "Management's Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting" we have work remaining to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. There can be no assurance as to when the material weakness will be remediated. Until our remediation efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 