ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in us and in analyzing our forward-looking statements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS OUTSTANDING AND ARE LATE IN THE PAYMENT OF CERTAIN OUTSTANDING NOTES. In order to finance the acquisition of Kirk and our ongoing operations, as of October 31, 2007, we incurred significant indebtedness of approximately $23,154,000 (including accrued interest) including, but not limited to, a senior secured credit facility from the Bank of India in the principal amount of $7,200,000, a note in the principal amount of $2,000,000 held by our President, Chief Operating Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of Kirk Pharmaceuticals, LLC and AndaPharm, LLC, a note in the principal amount of $1,250,000 held by an affiliate of Harcharan Singh, a note in the amount of $1,500,000 held by CB Distributors, convertible bridge notes in the principal amount of $2,950,000 issued during fiscal year 2005 and convertible bridge notes in the principal amount of $3,450,000 issued during fiscal year 2007. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are late in the payment of notes in the principal amount of approximately $9,950,000. To date, two lawsuits have been brought against us by holders of certain bridge notes for default in payment on the notes, both of which are currently pending. In addition to our vulnerability to lawsuits, our substantial indebtedness could have other adverse consequences such as the following: 16 o require the acceleration of payments under the applicable notes and cause the foreclosure on any collateral securing any of the notes. o require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce amounts available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, and other general corporate purposes; o limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; o increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; o place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt than we do; o make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing that may be necessary in connection with our business; o make it more difficult for us to implement our business and growth strategies; and o cause us to have to pay higher interest rates on future borrowings. Furthermore, certain holders of convertible bridge notes issued during the fiscal year ended 2007 may convert each share of Series B Preferred Stock held by such holder into fifteen shares of our common stock which would have the effect of diluting our shareholders. While we are seeking to repay such indebtedness from the offering of equity and/or debt securities and future cash flow from our operations, there are no assurances that we will raise adequate financing or generate sufficient cash flow. Our failure to reduce the level of our indebtedness and to become current on our outstanding indebtedness will have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE CONTINUING TO ACCRUE PENALTIES FOR FAILURE OF A REGISTRATION STATEMENT TO BE DECLARED EFFECTIVE. As part of a private placement conducted during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, we committed to register the shares of common stock underlying certain convertible bridge notes and placement agent warrants promptly following the closing of the offering and to cause the registration statement to be declared effective no later than 120 days following closing. Although we subsequently filed a registration statement, it has not been declared effective and, as a consequence, we are accruing a penalty of $149,374 each month. There is no cap on the maximum amount of the penalties and we recognized penalties of $2,195,064during the year ended October 31, 2007. In addition, as part of a private placement conducted during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2007, we committed to register the shares of common stock and shares of common stock underlying certain warrants within 30 days following the final closing of the offering and to cause the registration statement to be declared effective no later than 150 days following final 17 closing. We have not filed a registration statement and as a consequence, as of November 2007, we are accruing a penalty of $23,625 in the first month and $15,750 for each month thereafter, capped at $141,750. WE WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, AND IF ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IS NOT AVAILABLE, WE MAY HAVE TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OPERATIONS. To service our debt, fund research and development on an ongoing basis and fund the expansion of our manufacturing and distribution operations we will require substantial capital, which we may do through public or private equity or debt financing. In addition, we are seeking additional capital to extinguish the guarantees of Nostrum and Dr. Mulye to the Bank of India for our credit facility with the Bank of India. No representation can be made that we will be able to obtain additional financing or if obtained it will be on favorable terms, or at all. No assurance can be given that any offering if undertaken will be successfully concluded or that if concluded the proceeds will be material. Our inability to obtain additional financing when needed would impair our ability to continue our business. If any future financing involves the further sale of our securities, our then-existing stockholders' equity could be substantially diluted. On the other hand, if we incurred debt, we would be subject to risks associated with indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates might fluctuate and cash flow would be insufficient to pay principal and interest on such indebtedness. WE HAVE NOT BEEN PROFITABLE AND EXPECT FUTURE LOSSES. Since our inception in 1990, we have not been profitable. We may never be profitable or, if we become profitable, we may be unable to sustain profitability. We have sustained losses in each year since our incorporation in 1990. We incurred net losses of $20,198,000, $8,571,000, $2,211,000, $1,124,000 and $760,000, for the years ended October 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of October 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $73,601,000. We expect to realize significant losses for the current year of operation and to continue to incur losses until we are able to raise additional capital and generate sufficient revenues to reduce our level of indebtedness and support our operations and offset operating costs. OUR INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM HAS EXPRESSED SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. Our independent registered public accounting firm in its audit opinion issued in connection with our consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2007 and 2006 and our consolidated statements of operations, stockholder's equity and cash flows for the years ended October 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern given our net losses and negative cash flows. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. 18 OUR FAILURE TO EXTINGUISH THE GUARANTEES OF NOSTRUM AND DR. MULYE BY MAY 1, 2008 MAY RESULT IN FURTHER DISAGREEMENTS BETWEEN MANAGEMENT AND NOSTRUM AND DR. MULYE. According to the settlement agreement with Nostrum and Dr. Mulye, if by May 1, 2008, the guarantees of Nostrum and Dr. Mulye on our Bank of India line of credit are not extinguished in whole or in part, then up to 10,661,000 shares of our common stock will be released from escrow to Nostrum, as adjusted pursuant to the settlement agreement. Such an event would cause Nostrum to become our largest shareholder and given the disagreements that management and Nostrum and Dr. Mulye had in the past, we would expect this to result in further disagreements in the procedural and substantive decision-making and operations of our business which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. WE HAVE A RELATIVELY LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY, WHICH MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE OUR FUTURE PROSPECTS. Although we have been in operation since 1990, our business model has evolved over time. Since the acquisition of Kirk in May 2006, our primary line of business is the manufacturing and distribution of OTC and prescription drugs and accordingly we have a relatively short operating history and limited financial data upon which you may evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, our business model is likely to continue to evolve as we attempt to expand our product offerings. As a result, our potential for future profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that are attempting to move into new markets and continuing to innovate with new and unproven technologies. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: o develop new products; o obtain regulatory approval of our products; o manage our growth, control expenditures and align costs with revenues; o attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and o respond to competitive developments. If we do not effectively address the risks we face, our business model may become unworkable and we may not achieve or sustain profitability or successfully develop any products. A FAILURE TO LOCATE AND HIRE A SUITABLE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. On February 11, 1008, David Coffin-Beach, President and Chief Operating Officer resigned. We are actively searching for a replacement to fill this position. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in locating and hiring a suitable new Chief Operating Officer in 19 the reasonable future. Failure to do so will have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. MANY OF THE PRODUCTS MANUFACTURED BY US CONTAIN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, THE SUPPLY OF WHICH IS REGULATED. The raw materials used in many of our products are controlled substances and are regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment (including import and export), storage, sale and use are subject to the highest degree of regulation and accountability. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements may result in action such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registrations, or proceedings to revoke those registrations and, in certain circumstances, criminal proceedings. If our registration were revoked, denied or suspended, or if the DEA or FDA were to rule against the permissibility of any of the APIs used in our OTC products, we could no longer lawfully possess or distribute controlled substances, or manufacture and distribute products containing the disallowed API and thereby having a material adverse effect on our operations. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON A SMALL NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR OUR RAW MATERIALS AND ANY DELAY OR UNAVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS CAN MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO PRODUCE PRODUCTS. The FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials were unavailable from a specified supplier, FDA approval of a new supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. In addition, some materials used in our products are currently available from only one supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Further, a significant portion of our raw materials may be available only from foreign sources. Foreign sources can be subject to the special risks of doing business abroad, including: o greater possibility for disruption due to transportation or communication problems; o the relative instability of some foreign governments and economies; o interim price volatility based on labor unrest, materials or equipment shortages, export duties, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and o uncertainty regarding recourse to a dependable legal system for the enforcement of contracts and other rights. In addition, recent changes in patent laws in certain foreign jurisdictions (primarily in Europe) may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for research and development prior to expiration of applicable United States or foreign patents. Any delay or inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases that cannot 20 be passed on to customers, can materially adversely affect our ability to produce products. This can materially adversely affect our business and operations. OUR FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. Competition in the pharmaceutical area is intense, and our competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company. Competition is based primarily on price, quality and assortment of products, customer service, marketing support and availability of new products. Competition also comes from national brand companies and brand pharmaceutical companies. That competition could be intensified should those companies lower prices or manufacture their own store brand or generic equivalent products. Kirk's competition consists of many companies who are independent pharmaceutical drug manufacturers on a contractual basis and the pharmaceutical companies, which have manufacturing capabilities, and facilities, many of which have substantially greater financials and other resources. WE MAY FAIL TO ESTABLISH OR CULTIVATE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS TO EXPAND OUR BUSINESS. We intend to develop its business model and build our business in part through strategic partnerships such as the strategic relationship we have with Glopec International. We may not be able to successfully form or manage such other partnerships, and if not, our ability to execute its business plan will be at risk. WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO INCREASED GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH COULD INCREASE THE COSTS OR CAUSE THE COMPANY TO REVISE CERTAIN PRODUCT CLAIMS. The design, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical compounds, on which our success depends, is subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA, and to a lesser extent, other federal and state government agencies. The Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern the development, testing, manufacture, safety/effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. Non-compliance with applicable regulations can result in judicially and/or administratively imposed sanctions, including the initiation of product seizures, injunction actions, fines and criminal prosecutions. Administrative enforcement measures may involve the recall of products, as well as the refusal of an applicable government authority to enter into supply contracts or to approve new drug applications. The FDA also has the authority to withdraw its approval of drugs in accordance with regulatory due process procedures. The cost of complying with government regulations substantially increases the cost of producing our products. WE HAVE A LIMITED HISTORY OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OR COMMERCIALIZATION OF DRUG PRODUCTS. We are developing generic Rx and OTC products. We believe we can successfully accomplish the development, manufacturing and launch of products by raising additional capital 21 to sustain our operations, hiring requisite competent and experienced management and operational personnel, or teaming with other pharmaceutical companies to create strategic partnerships at various stages of the process. There is no assurance that any or all of this can be accomplished to the degree necessary to ensure a successful drug development and commercialization operation. WE FACE PRODUCT LIABILITY RISKS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE INSURANCE TO PROTECT IT AGAINST LOSSES. As a manufacturer and distributor of products that are intended to be ingested by consumers, even if sold to the consumer by a third party company and/or formulated in a third party's facility, we may be subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products contain contaminants or include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. While no such claims have been made to date, any future product liability claims and the resulting adverse publicity could harm our business. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. IF KEY PERSONNEL WERE TO LEAVE US OR IF WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN ATTRACTING QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP PRODUCTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED. We are highly dependent on our management, particularly Dr. Ronald Lane, a founder and our Chief Executive Officer. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and business personnel experienced in the development, manufacture and distribution of OTC and prescription drugs. The loss of the services of Dr. Lane or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. WE RELY ON TRADE SECRETS, UNPATENTED PROPRIETARY EXPERTISE AND CONTINUING INNOVATION TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY INTERESTS. We rely particularly on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. We cannot provide assurance that these agreements will not be breached or circumvented. We also cannot be certain that there will be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, efforts to ensure our intellectual property rights can be costly, time-consuming and/or ultimately unsuccessful. Our success also depends in part on our continued ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products. There can be no assurance that our licenses, patents and patent applications are or will be sufficiently comprehensive to protect these products. The process of seeking further patent protection can be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that we will have 22 sufficient capital reserves to cover the expense of patent prosecution for any future applications or that all or even any patents will issue from any future patent applications or that any of the patents when issued will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may receive communications alleging possible infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others. We believe that in most cases we could obtain necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we may be unable to do so. In addition, litigation could ensue or damages for any past infringements could be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of efforts by us, may be necessary to enforce patents or other intellectual property rights of us or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or litigation arising out of infringement claims could have a material adverse effect on us. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK OUR COMMON STOCK IS THINLY TRADED AND MAY EXPERIENCE PRICE VOLATILITY, WHICH COULD AFFECT A STOCKHOLDER'S ABILITY TO SELL OUR STOCK OR THE PRICE FOR WHICH IT CAN BE SOLD. There has been and may continues to be, at least for the immediate future, a limited public market for our common stock. On July 18, 2001, our common stock was delisted from quotation on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market due to non-compliance with certain continuing listing requirements. From July 19, 2001 to February 28, 2003, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol BNRX.OB. From March 1, 2003 to July 12, 2005, our common stock was quoted on the "Pink Sheets" under the symbol BNRX.PK". On July 13, 2005, our common stock was approved by the NASD and appeared on the OTCBB with an unprimed quote. Three business days later, on July 18, 2005, HDSN showed a priced quote for BNRX.OB. Thirty days later, on August 15, 2005 all other market makers were eligible to appear on the OTCBB with their quotes, and have been quoted there through the present. The market price for our common stock, and for the stock of pharmaceutical companies generally, has been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may be affected by: o results of our clinical trials; o approval or disapproval of abbreviated new drug applications or new drug applications; o announcements of innovations, new products or new patents by us or by our competitors; o governmental regulation; o patent or proprietary rights developments; o proxy contests or litigation; 23 o news regarding the efficacy of, safety of or demand for drugs or drug technologies; o economic and market conditions, generally and related to the pharmaceutical industry; o healthcare legislation; o changes in third-party reimbursement policies for drugs; and o fluctuations in our operating results. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK OR THE ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES SENIOR TO OUR COMMON STOCK OR CONVERTIBLE INTO, OR EXCHANGEABLE OR EXERCISABLE FOR, OUR COMMON STOCK COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK, AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE FUNDS IN NEW EQUITY OFFERINGS. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market or privately, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or other equity-related securities. We can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock or equity-related securities, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE TRADING PRICES OF OUR COMMON STOCK AS WELL AS A DILUTIVE EFFECT. We have issued and may continue to issue warrants, options and other convertible securities at or below the current market price. As of October 31, 2007, we had outstanding 8,701,915 warrants and options as well as $2,950,000 bridge notes convertible at $3.00 per share, unless adjusted by formula per the convertible promissory note agreements. During the terms of such options, warrants and convertible securities, the holders thereof will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of the common stock with resulting dilution in the interests of holders of common stock. The existence of such stock options, warrants and convertible notes could adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional financing, and the holders can be expected to exercise those exercise and conversion rights at a time when we, in all likelihood, would be able to obtain additional capital by offering shares of our common stock on terms more favorable to the Company than those provided by the exercise or conversions of the securities. We also have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of one or more series of convertible preferred stock. The issuance of those shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of outstanding shares of common stock and could have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. IF PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS BECOME APPLICABLE TO OUR COMMON STOCK THEY WILL 24 IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON THE MARKETABILITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND THE ABILITY OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS TO SELL SHARES OF OUR STOCK COULD BE IMPAIRED. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share subject to certain exceptions. Exceptions include equity securities issued by an issuer that has (i) net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for more than three years, or (ii) net tangible assets of at least $5,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years, or (iii) average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the preceding three years. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require that prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a risk of disclosure schedule must be delivered to the buyer explaining the penny stock market and its risks. Our common stock is currently trading at under $5.00 per share. Although we currently fall under one of the exceptions, if at a later time we fail to meet one of the exceptions, our common stock will be considered a penny stock. As such the market liquidity for our common stock will be limited to the ability of broker-dealers to sell it in compliance with the above-mentioned disclosure requirements. You should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: o Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers; o "Boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics; o Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales; o The release of misleading information; o Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker- dealers; and o Dumping of securities by broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, which hurts the price of the stock and causes investors to suffer loss. We are aware of the abuses that have occurred in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, we will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent such abuses with respect to our common stock. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO GAIN CONTROL OF US, EVEN IF THE ACQUISITION OF CONTROL WOULD BE IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and the Nevada General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to 25 obtain control of us, even when those attempts may be in the best interest of our stockholders. Nevada law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with "interested stockholders" (as defined therein). The Restated Articles provide for a staggered board, which makes it more difficult for the stockholders to change the majority of our directors. In addition, our Restated Articles authorize the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock. On September 8, 2006, our Board of Directors adopted a Rights Plan, the effect of which is to grant stockholders of record as of September 8, 2006, in the event of a transaction which is not an exchange or tender offer to all the stockholders and is on terms and price which a majority of certain members of the Board does not determine to be adequate and in the best interests of the Company, its stockholders and other constituencies the right to acquire during the period ended September 8, 2011 for each share held of record one additional share of common stock at a price equal to 33 1/3% of the then market price. The transaction is the acquisition by an "Acquiring Person" or group of such shares which would result in the person or group beneficially owing in excess of 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock or the acquisition of by a 20% or more owner or group of owners of an additional 1% of the outstanding shares of common stock. The Plan also provides that in the event of a merger or other business combination in which the owners of all the outstanding shares prior to the transaction are not the owners of all the voting powers of the surviving corporation or in the event of a sale or transfer of more than 50% of our assets or earning power our stockholders of are to receive upon payment of the purchase price of $1,200 per share, shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the purchase price. The existence of such Plan will have the effect of making us less attractive in the market to candidates not approved by certain members of the Board and thus reduce the possibility of a transaction being effected for the sale of our common stock or an asset or stock transaction which would result at a higher price than if the Rights Plan did not exist. OUR BY-LAWS HAVE BEEN RECENTLY AMENDED TO RESTRICT THE ABILITY OF STOCKHOLDERS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE ELECTION OF DIRECTORS AND THE PRESENTATION OF MATTERS AT STOCKHOLDER MEETINGS. On September 8, 2006,our By-laws were amended to provide that: (i) nominees for director at the annual meeting by stockholders other than by the Board can be made only by written notice to the Board delivered within a designated period prior to the meeting and provided certain information as to the nominee and the stockholder making such nomination is given to the Board in such notice, and (ii) business at the annual meeting can be introduced by the Board of Director or only by those stockholders who provide written notice not less than 40 nor more than 90 days prior to the annual meeting, containing a description of the business and reasons therefore and certain information as to the stockholders. Such provisions restrict the ability of stockholders to nominate directors and to introduce business as to the Company for consideration of the stockholders. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 