ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks described below or such other risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur a significant impairment charge in connection with a decline in the market value of our investment securities portfolio, including our non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations and structured credit investments The majority of our earnings come from our Treasury business segment, which encompasses our investment securities portfolio. The determination of fair value for investment securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. In addition, we utilize and review information obtained from third-party sources to measure fair values. Third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining securities values, and different third parties may provide different prices for securities. Moreover, depending upon, among other things, the measurement date of the security, the subsequent sale price of the security may be different from its recorded fair value. These differences may be significant, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption. When the fair value of a security declines, management must assess whether the decline is “other-than-temporary.” When the decline in fair value is deemed “other-than-temporary,” the amortized cost basis of the investment security is reduced to its then current fair value. On April 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 320-10-65-1, which changed the accounting requirements for other than temporary impairments for debt securities and, in certain circumstances, separates the amount of total impairment into credit and noncredit-related amounts. The review takes into consideration current market conditions, issuer rating changes and trends, the credit worthiness of the obligator of the security, current analysts’ evaluations, failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or principal payments, our intent to not sell the security or whether it is more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, as well as other qualitative factors. The term “other than temporary impairments” is not intended to indicate that the decline is permanent, but indicates that the prospects for a near-term recovery of value is not necessarily favorable, or that there is a lack of evidence to support a realizable value equal to or greater than the carrying value of the investment. Any portion of a decline in value associated with credit loss is recognized in income with the remaining noncredit-related component being recognized in other comprehensive income. A credit loss is determined by assessing whether the amortized cost basis of the security will be recovered, by comparing the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the security, computed using original yield as the discount rate, to the amortized cost basis of the security. The shortfall of the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected in relation to the amortized cost basis is 16 Table of Contents considered to be the “credit loss.” Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition. Subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future results of operations, as they are based on the difference between the sale prices received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. The review of whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary considers numerous factors and many of these factors involve significant judgment. For more information about our investment securities portfolio and our other-than-temporary impairment losses on securities in 2009, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Changes in interest rates may hurt our business Changes in interest rates is one of the principal market risks affecting us. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve Board). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans and investment securities, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. We are at risk because most of our business is conducted in Puerto Rico, which is experiencing a downturn in the economy and in the real estate market Because most of our business activities are conducted in Puerto Rico and a substantial portion of our credit exposure is in Puerto Rico, we are at risk from adverse economic, political or business developments and natural hazards that affect Puerto Rico. Since 2006, the Puerto Rico economy has been experiencing recessionary conditions. Based on information published by the Puerto Rico Planning Board, the Puerto Rico real gross national product decreased 3.7% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico government is currently addressing a fiscal deficit. It is implementing a multi-year budget plan for reducing the deficit, as its access to the municipal bond market and its credit ratings depend, in part, on achieving a balanced budget. Some of the measures implemented by the government included reducing expenses, including public-sector employment through employee layoffs. Since the government is an important source of employment on the Island, these measures could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. The Puerto Rico Labor Department reported an unemployment rate of 14.3% for December 2009, compared with an unemployment rate of 13.1% for December 2008. Pursuant to the Declaration of Fiscal Emergency and Omnibus Plan for Economic Stabilization and Restoration of the Puerto Rican Credit Act of March 2, 2009, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2008, and ending before January 1, 2012, every corporation engaged in trade or business in Puerto Rico, including banks, insurance companies, and international banking entities, will be subject to an additional five percent (5%) surcharge on corporate income tax. This temporary tax was enacted as a measure to generate additional revenues to address the fiscal crisis that the government of Puerto Rico is currently facing. A period of reduced economic growth or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of defaults in commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. A recession may have a significant adverse impact on our net interest income and fee income. We may also experience significant losses on the loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. The decline in Puerto Rico’s economy has had an adverse effect in the credit quality of our loan portfolios as delinquency rates have increased in the short-term and may continue to increase until the economy stabilizes. Among other things, we have experienced an increase in the level of our non-performing assets and loan loss 17 Table of Contents provision, which adversely affects our profitability. If the decline in economic activity continues, additional increases in the allowance for loan losses could be necessary and there could be further adverse effects on our profitability. The reduction in consumer spending may also continue to impact growth in our other interest and non-interest revenue sources. The level of real estate prices in Puerto Rico had been more stable than in other U.S. markets, but the current economic environment has accelerated the devaluation of properties and has increased portfolio delinquency when compared with previous periods. Additional economic weakness in Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland could further pressure residential property values, loan delinquencies, foreclosures and the cost of repossessing and disposing of real estate collateral. The housing market has suffered a substantial slowdown in sales activity in recent quarters. Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the fair value of assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or equity prices. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to us is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. We use an asset-liability management software to project future movements in our balance sheet and income statement. The starting point of the projections generally corresponds to the actual values of the balance sheet on the date of the simulations. These simulations are highly complex, and use many simplifying assumptions. We are subject to interest rate risk because of the following factors: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice slower than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline. • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, basis risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices that may not move in tandem. • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently. • The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, we would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant impact on mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios. • Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of financial assets and financial liabilities, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings. In limiting interest rate risk to an acceptable level, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. We may suffer losses or experience lower spreads than anticipated in initial projections as management implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. 18 Table of Contents The hedging transactions we enter into may not be effective in managing the exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk We offer certificates of deposit with an option tied to the performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock market index and we use derivatives, such as option agreements with major broker-dealer companies, to manage our exposure to changes in the value of the index. We may also use derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, to manage part of our exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. The derivative instruments that we may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (1) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost; (2) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder; and (3) legal risk, which is the risk that we are unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose us to losses. If a counterparty to a derivative contract fails to perform, our credit risk is equal to the net fair value of the contract. Although we deal with counterparties that have high quality credit ratings at the time we enter into the counterparty relationships, there can be no assurances that our counterparties will have the ability to perform under their contracts. If a counterparty fails to perform, including as a result of the bankruptcy or insolvency of a counterparty, we would incur losses as a result. Our risk management policies, procedures and systems may be inadequate to mitigate all risks inherent in our various businesses A comprehensive risk management function is essential to the financial and operational success of our business. The types of risk we monitor and seek to manage include, but are not limited to, operational risk, market risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various policies, procedures and systems to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that those policies, procedures and systems are adequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our various businesses. In addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. If we fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes, we could incur losses. A prolonged economic downturn or recession or a continuing decline in the real estate market would likely result in an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and in a reduction in loan origination activity which would adversely affect our financial results The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of lower volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline, and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans that we may originate in the future and may adversely impact our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. A recent trend of decreasing values in certain housing segments has also been noted. There is a risk that a reduction in housing values could negatively impact our loss levels on the mortgage portfolio because the value of the homes underlying the loans is a primary source of repayment in the event of foreclosure. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to sell loans, the price we receive on the sale of such loans, and the value of our mortgage loan portfolio, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken our collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. A continuing decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland and ongoing disruptions in the capital markets may harm our investment securities and wholesale funding portfolios The housing market in the U.S. is undergoing a correction of historic proportions. After a period of several years of booming housing markets, fueled by liberal credit conditions and rapidly rising property values, the sector has been in the midst of a substantial correction since early 2007. The general level of property values in the U.S., as 19 Table of Contents measured by several indices widely followed by the market, has declined. These declines are the result of ongoing market adjustments that are aligning property values with income levels and home inventories. The supply of homes in the market has increased substantially, and additional property value decreases may be required to clear the overhang of excess inventory in the U.S. market. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot maintain access to stable funding sources Our business requires continuous access to various funding sources. While we are able to fund our operations through deposits as well as through advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and other alternative sources, our business is significantly dependent upon other wholesale funding sources, such as repurchase agreements and brokered deposits. While most of our repurchase agreements have been structured with initial terms to maturity of between three and ten years, the counterparties have the right to exercise put options before the contractual maturities. Brokered deposits are typically sold through an intermediary to small retail investors. Our ability to continue to attract brokered deposits is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. Brokered deposits are generally considered a less stable source of funding than core deposits obtained through retail bank branches. Investors in brokered deposits are generally more sensitive to interest rates and will generally move funds from one depository institution to another based on small differences in interest rates offered on deposits. Although we expect to have continued access to credit from the foregoing sources of funds, there can be no assurance that such financing sources will continue to be available or will be available on favorable terms. In a period of financial disruption such as the one currently being experienced in the U.S. financial system, or if negative developments occur with respect to us, the availability and cost of our funding sources could be adversely affected. In that event, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest income, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in realizing a loss or experiencing other adverse accounting consequences upon the dispositions. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other reductions in liquidity driven by us or market related events. In the event that such sources of funds are reduced or eliminated and we are not able to replace them on a cost-effective basis, we may be forced to curtail or cease our loan origination business and treasury activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our decisions regarding credit risk and the allowance for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations Making loans is an essential element of our business and there is a risk that our loans will not be repaid. This default risk is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic or industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We strive to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors such as default frequency, internal risk ratings, expected future cash collections, loss recovery rates and general economic factors, among others, as are the size and diversity of individual credits. Our methodology for measuring the adequacy of the allowance relies on several key elements which include a specific allowance for identified problem loans, a general systematic allowance, and an unallocated allowance. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is currently sufficient given the constant monitoring of the risk inherent in our loan portfolio, there is no precise method of predicting loan losses and therefore we always face 20 Table of Contents the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. In addition, the FDIC as well as the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of Puerto Rico may require us to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net earnings and capital and could hinder our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to default and other risks in connection with our mortgage loan originations From the time that we fund the mortgage loans we originate to the time we sell them, we are generally at risk for any mortgage loan defaults. Once we sell the mortgage loans, the risk of loss from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures passes to the purchaser or insurer of the mortgage loans. However, in the ordinary course of business, we make representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers of mortgage loans relating to the validity of such loans. If there is a breach of any of these representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the mortgage loan. In addition, we incur higher liquidity risk with respect to the non-conforming mortgage loans originated by us, because of the lack of a favorable secondary market in which to sell them. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits and assets to manage. The competition in originating loans and attracting assets comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, investment advisors, broker/dealers, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. We will encounter greater competition as we expand our operations. Increased competition may require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we charge on loans which could adversely affect our profitability. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. As a result of the recent turmoil in U.S. financial markets, there may be significant changes and increased regulation of banks and bank holding companies in the future. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes could also impose additional costs which could negatively impact our profitability. Further, regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on us. Legislative and other measures that may be taken by Puerto Rico governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows We operate an international banking entity pursuant to the International Banking Center Regulatory Act of Puerto Rico that provides us with significant tax advantages. Our international banking entity has the benefits of exemptions from Puerto Rico income taxes on interest earned on, or gain realized from the sale of, non-Puerto Rico assets, including U.S. government obligations and certain mortgage backed securities. This exemption has allowed us to have effective tax rates significantly below the maximum statutory tax rates. In the past, the legislature of Puerto Rico has considered proposals to curb the tax benefits afforded to international banking entities. In the event legislation passed in Puerto Rico to eliminate or modify the tax exemption enjoyed by international banking entities, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Competition in attracting talented people could adversely affect our operations We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and we rely heavily on our management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Retention of senior managers and appropriate succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of our strategies. We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present risk to our business We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we would still be subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these transactions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated transaction, we may face additional risk in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Stock price volatility The trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding the operations, business prospects or industry outlook. Risk factors may include the following: • operating results that may be worse than the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • developments in the business or in the financial sector in general; • regulatory changes affecting the industry in general or the business and operations; • the operating and securities price performance of peer financial institutions; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions. Stock markets, in general, and our common stock in particular, have recently experienced significant price and volume volatility and the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance or prospects. Dividends on our common stock Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on the common stock, we are not required to do so. The Group expects to continue to pay dividends but its ability to pay future dividends at current levels will necessarily depend upon its earnings, financial condition, and market conditions. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements Our financial statements are subject to the application of our accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required 22 Table of Contents to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting developments that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 