Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and expect to incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses since inception, principally as a result of research and development and general and administrative expenses in support of our operations. For example, we experienced net losses of $73.2 million in 2005, $90.4 million in 2004 and $74.5 million in 2003, and as of December 31, 2005 had an accumulated deficit of $453.1 million. We anticipate incurring additional losses over the next several years as we focus our resources on prioritizing, selecting, and advancing our most promising drug candidates. We may never be profitable or achieve significant revenues. All of our drug candidates are still in the early stages of development and remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. To date, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any drug candidates. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. Our most advanced drug candidates are velafermin, which is currently in a Phase II clinical trial, PXD101, which is in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials and CR002, which completed a Phase I clinical trial in July 2005. Our other drug candidates are in various stages of preclinical development. Our drug candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy testing and obtain regulatory approval of our drug candidates. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: • offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing comparable drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or • be successfully commercialized. Positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for velafermin, PXD101, CR002 and our other drug candidates may not be predictive of the safety, efficacy or dosing results we may obtain in later stage trials. We do not expect any of our drug candidates to be commercially available for at least several years. If we are unable to obtain U.S. and/or foreign regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions prior to the commercial sale of our drug candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing will obtain marketing approval. In connection with the clinical trials for velafermin, PXD101, CR002 and any other drug candidate we may seek to develop in the future, we face risks that: • the drug candidate may not prove to be efficacious; 20 Table of Contents • the drug may not prove to be safe; • the results may not confirm the positive results from earlier preclinical studies or clinical trials; and • the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. The time required to complete clinical trials and for the FDA and other countries’ regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. Our analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the particular drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the product. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States. Foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any product revenue. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in receiving or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling volunteers and patients into clinical trials; • a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers and patients in clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results or unforeseen complications in testing; • inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or • the placement by the FDA of a clinical hold on a trial. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment may result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, subjects may withdraw from our clinical trials, and thereby impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. We cannot predict whether any of our drug candidates will encounter problems during clinical trials which will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend these trials, or which will delay the analysis of data from these trials. In addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. If we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our other drug candidates. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our drug candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and applicable foreign regulations, we could lose those approvals, and our business would be seriously harmed. Even if we receive regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results which are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available approved drugs. Since drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. In addition, the manufacturer, and the manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates, will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. Although we do not currently commercialize any products, claims could be made against us based on the use of our drug candidates in clinical trials. We currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates, we may not generate product revenue. We have no commercial products, and we do not currently have an organization for the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. In order to successfully commercialize any drugs that may be approved in the future 22 Table of Contents by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, we must build our sales and marketing capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if velafermin, PXD101, CR011, CR014, CR012, CR002, BAY 76-7171 or any other drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future, obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors. Physicians may elect not to recommend these drugs for a variety of reasons including: • timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; • lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; • lack of cost-effectiveness; • lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors; • convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and • ineffective marketing and distribution support. If our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we would not be able to generate significant revenue. If the government and other third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our future drugs, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for these drugs. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors’ satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return or investment in product development. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. 23 Table of Contents We may not be able to execute our business strategy if we are unable to enter into alliances with other companies that can provide capabilities and funds for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. If we are unsuccessful in forming or maintaining these alliances on favorable terms, our business may not succeed. We have entered into a collaboration arrangements with several companies for the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates, and we may enter into additional collaborative arrangements in the future. For example, we may enter into alliances with major biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies to jointly develop specific drug candidates and to jointly commercialize them if they are approved. We may not be successful in entering into any such alliances on favorable terms. Even if we do succeed in securing such alliances, we may not be able to maintain them if, for example, development or approval of a drug candidate is delayed or sales of an approved drug are disappointing. Furthermore, any delay in entering into collaboration agreements could delay the development and commercialization of our drug candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. Any such delay related to our collaborations could adversely affect our business. If a collaborative partner terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed or terminated. If any current or future collaborative partner does not devote sufficient time and resources to collaboration arrangements with us, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if any existing or future collaboration partner were to breach or terminate its arrangements with us, the development and commercialization of the affected drug candidate could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of the drug candidate on our own. Much of the potential revenue from our existing and future collaborations will consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving development milestones and royalties payable on sales of drugs developed using our technologies. The milestone and royalty revenues that we may receive under these collaborations will depend upon our collaborator’s ability to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products. In addition, our collaborators may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize products developed under our existing or future collaborations using our technologies, which could reduce the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive, if any. In many cases we will not be involved in these processes and accordingly will depend entirely on our collaborators. Our collaboration partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products or technologies because they: • decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited cash resources or specialized equipment limitations, or the belief that other drug development programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment; • do not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the drug candidate through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization; • decide to pursue a competitive drug candidate developed outside of the collaboration; or • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. If our collaboration partners fail to develop or effectively commercialize drug candidates or drugs for any of these reasons, we may not be able to replace the collaboration partner with another partner to develop and commercialize a drug candidate or drugs under the terms of the collaboration. We may also be unable to obtain a license from such collaboration partner on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 24 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and provide other services, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such services. We do not have the ability to independently conduct some preclinical studies and the clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract laboratories, contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to design and conduct these studies and our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct the studies or our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. To date, we believe our contract research organizations and other similar entities with which we are working have performed well. However, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in delays. Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates may be delayed. We currently depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our preclinical and clinical drug supplies and intend to rely upon third-party manufacturers to produce commercial supplies of any approved drug candidates. If in the future we manufacture any of our drug candidates, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish and maintain these capabilities. We have relied upon third parties to produce material for preclinical and clinical testing purposes and intend to continue to do so in the future. Although we believe that we will not have any material supply issues, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain long-term supplies of those materials on acceptable terms, if at all. We also expect to rely upon third parties to produce materials required for the commercial production of our drug candidates if we succeed in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our drug candidates or market them. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured drug candidates ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control and the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our drug candidates be manufactured according to cGMP regulations. Any failure by us or our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP and/or our failure to scale up our manufacturing processes could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates. In addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals for drug candidates previously granted to us and for other regulatory action. We currently rely on a single manufacturer for the preclinical and clinical supplies of our protein, antibody, and ADC drug candidates and do not currently have relationships for redundant supply or a second source for any of these drug candidates. To date, our third-party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements, but we cannot assure that they will continue to do so. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates or commercialization of any approved products. If for some reason our current contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of potential replacements as our manufacturing processes are not manufacturer specific, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements. Furthermore, although we generally do not begin a clinical trial unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a drug candidate to complete the trial, any significant delay in the supply of a drug candidate for an ongoing trial due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer could delay completion of the trial. 25 Table of Contents We may in the future elect to manufacture certain of our drug candidates in our own manufacturing facilities. If we do so, we will require substantial additional funds and need to recruit qualified personnel in order to build or lease and operate any manufacturing facilities. Because we have limited experience in developing, commercializing and marketing products, we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to do so. Our products in development will require significant research and development and preclinical and clinical testing prior to our submitting any regulatory application for their commercial use. These activities, even if undertaken without the collaboration of others, will require us to expend significant funds and will be subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials. Even if we complete such studies, our ability to commercialize products will depend on our ability to: • obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; • enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture our products on our behalf; and • deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these services. As a result of these possibilities, we may not be able to develop any commercially viable products. In addition, should we choose to develop pharmaceutical products internally, we will have to make significant investments in pharmaceutical product development, marketing, sales, and regulatory compliance resources, and we will have to establish or contract for the manufacture of products under the FDA cGMPs. Any potential products developed by our licensees will be subject to the same risks. We do not currently have any marketed products. If we develop products that can be marketed, we intend to market the products either independently or together with collaborators or strategic partners. If we decide to market any products independently, we will incur significant additional expenditures and commit significant additional management resources to establish a sales force. For any products that we market together with partners, we will rely, in whole or in part, on the marketing capabilities of those parties. We may also contract with other third parties to market certain of our products. Ultimately, we and our partners may not be successful in marketing our products. Because neither we nor any of our collaborative partners have received marketing approval for any product resulting from our research and development efforts, and may never be able to obtain any such approval, we may not be able to generate any product revenue. All the products being developed by our collaborative partners will require additional research and development, extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials, and regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. In some cases, the length of time that it takes for our collaborative partners to achieve various regulatory approval milestones may affect the payments that we are eligible to receive under our collaboration agreements. We and our collaborative partners may need to address a number of technical challenges successfully in order to complete development of our drug candidates. Moreover, these drug candidates may not be effective in treating any disease or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities, or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. We rely significantly on our collaborative partners, and our business could be harmed if we are unable to maintain strategic alliances. As part of our business strategy, we have strategic research and development alliances with companies to gain access to specific technologies. These alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may provide us with access to unique technologies, access to capital, near-term revenues, milestone and/or royalty payments, and potential profit sharing arrangements. In return, we provide access to unique technologies, 26 Table of Contents expertise in genomics, and information on the molecular basis of disease, drug targets, and drug candidates. We currently have significant strategic alliances with Abgenix, Bayer, TopoTarget, and Seattle Genetics, in addition to numerous smaller agreements to facilitate these efforts. In these strategic alliances, either party can terminate the agreement at any time the alliance permits them to or if either party materially breaches the contract. We may not be able to maintain or expand existing alliances or establish any additional alliances. If any of our existing collaborators were to breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct activities successfully and in a timely manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of product candidates or research programs may be delayed or terminated, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend on attracting and retaining key employees. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, including David M. Wurzer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Timothy M. Shannon, M.D., Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer; and Christopher K. McLeod, Executive Vice President of CuraGen and Chief Executive Officer and President at 454. Our future success will depend in part on the continued services of our key scientific and management personnel. The loss of services of any of these personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have entered into employment agreements with all of the principal members of our management team. We are currently conducting a search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. In May 2005, Patrick J. Zenner, a CuraGen board member and former President and Chief Executive Officer of F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc. was appointed by our Board of Directors as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis, until completion of the ongoing search. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to attract, hire, and retain additional personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend on academic collaborators, consultants, and scientific advisors. We have relationships with collaborators, consultants, and scientific advisors at academic and other institutions that conduct research or provide consulting services at our request. These collaborators, consultants, and scientific advisors are not our employees. Substantially all of our collaborators, consultants, and scientific advisors are employed by employers other than us and may have commitments to, or collaboration, consulting, or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. As a result, we have limited control over their activities and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration, consulting agreements, and advisory agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. Our ability to explore and validate biological activity of therapeutic candidates and commercialize products based on these discoveries may depend, in part, on continued collaborations with researchers at academic and other institutions. We may not be able to negotiate additional acceptable collaborations with collaborators. consultants, or scientific advisors at academic and other institutions. Our academic collaborators, consultants, and scientific advisors may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which could compete with us. Our academic collaborators, consultants and scientific advisors sign agreements which provide for confidentiality of our proprietary information and of the results of studies. We may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with every academic collaboration, consulting, or advisory arrangement, and any unauthorized dissemination of our confidential information could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, any such collaborator, consultant or advisor may enter into an employment agreement or consulting arrangement with one of our competitors. Competition in our field is intense and likely to increase. We are subject to significant competition from organizations that are pursuing strategies, approaches, technologies and products that are similar to our own. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater 27 Table of Contents capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities and marketing capabilities. In addition, research in the field of drug development is highly competitive. Our competitors include: • biotechnology companies; • pharmaceutical companies; • academic and research institutions; and • government agencies. We compete with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that develop, produce, and market therapeutic compounds in the U.S., Europe, and elsewhere. We face competition from a number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with products in preclinical development, clinical trials, or approved for conditions identical or similar to the ones we are pursuing. Companies and institutions engaged in research and development from which we face intense competition include: • Amgen, Inc.; • Gloucester Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; • Merck & Co., Inc.; • Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; • Novartis Pharma AG; • Nuvelo, Inc.; • biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; and • universities and other research institutions. We selected the foregoing competitors because either they have business models that are similar to ours or are developing drugs, or have drugs approved for therapeutic indications, that are similar to the ones we are pursuing. If our patent applications do not result in issued patents, then our competitors may obtain rights to commercialize our discoveries. Our business and competitive position depends on our ability to protect our products and processes. We continually file patent applications for our proprietary methods, novel uses of genes, and our development products. As of the date of this report, we had been issued approximately 111 worldwide issued patents and allowed patent applications with respect to aspects of our gene portfolio, products, processes and technologies. Our commercial success also depends in part on obtaining patent protection on genes and proteins for which we or our collaborators discover utility and on products, methods and services based on such discoveries. We have applied for patent protection on novel genes and proteins, novel mutants of known genes and their uses, partial sequences of novel proteins and their gene sequences and uses, and novel uses for previously identified genes discovered by third parties. We have applied for patents on antibodies against the proteins we have discovered, and we have sought or have had our partners seek patent protection on the antibodies we produce against these proteins. We have sought and intend to continue to seek patent protection for novel uses for genes and proteins and therapeutic antibodies that may have been patented by third parties. In such cases, we would need a license from the holder of the patent with respect to such gene or protein in order to make, use, or sell such gene or protein for such use. We may not be able to acquire such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our patent application filings that result from the identification of genes associated with the cause or effect of a particular disease generally seek to protect the genes and the proteins encoded by such genes as well as antibodies raised against these gene products. We also seek patent protection for our therapeutic, diagnostic, and drug screening methods and products. 28 Table of Contents A number of competitors are producing proteins from genes and claiming both the proteins as potential therapeutics as well as the antibodies against these proteins. In many cases, generic antibody claims are being issued by the USPTO even though competitors have not actually made antibodies against the protein of interest, or do not have cellular, animal, or human data to support the use of these antibodies as therapeutics. These claims on proteins as therapeutics and these claims covering all antibodies against the proteins and methods of use in broad human indications are being filed at a rapid rate, and some number of these claims have issued and may continue to issue. In addition, purified proteins, therapeutic data, and antibodies, including polyclonal antibodies, mouse monoclonal antibodies and, in some cases, fully-human monoclonal antibodies, are being generated against a large number of targets within the human genome. All of these activities may make it difficult to commercialize products, or, if licenses are made available, may make the royalty burden on these products so high as to prevent commercial success. In 2001, the USPTO issued guidelines for patent applications reflecting the USPTO’s current policy regarding statutory written description and utility requirements for patentability. The implementation of these guidelines may cause the USPTO initially to reject some of our pending new gene and protein patent applications. There is no guarantee that the USPTO will approve them. We strive especially to gain issued patents for our commercially important genes and proteins. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, and biotechnology companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patent applications may not protect our products, processes, and technologies because of the following reasons: • there is no guarantee that any of our pending patent applications will result in additional issued patents; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborative customers will provide a basis for commercially viable products; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborative customers will provide us with any competitive advantages; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborative customers will not be challenged or circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. In addition, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate any of our technologies, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented technologies developed by us. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend ourselves in patent suits brought by third parties or if we initiate such suits. The issuance of patents may not provide us with sufficient protection. We may not be able to obtain further patents for our products, processes, and technologies, or, if we are able to obtain further patents, these patents may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, nor does it provide the patent holder with freedom to operate without infringing the patent rights of others. A patent could be challenged by litigation and, if the outcome of such litigation were adverse to the patent holder, competitors could be free to use the subject matter covered by the patent, or the patent holder may license the technology to others in settlement of such litigation. The invalidation of key patents owned by or licensed to us or the non-approval of pending patent applications could increase competition and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, any application or exploitation of our technology could infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and any licenses that we might need as a result of such infringement might 29 Table of Contents not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Third parties have indicated to us that they believe we may be required to obtain a license in order to perform certain processes that we use in the conduct of our business or in order to market potential drugs we have in development. We cannot predict whether our pending patent applications, or those of our competitors, will result in the issuance of valid patents. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us, also may be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may participate in interference proceedings that may in the future be declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us. The outcome of any such litigation or interference proceeding might not be favorable to us, and we might not be able to obtain licenses to technology that we require or, even if obtainable, such technology may not be available at a reasonable cost. Others may have filed and in the future are likely to file patent applications covering genes or gene products or antibodies against the gene products that are similar or identical to our products. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications. Any legal action against us or our collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products and processes could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us or our collaborators to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes or could enjoin us from continuing to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. There can be no assurance that we or our collaborators would prevail in any such action or that any license required under any such patent would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in such litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources. There is substantial uncertainty concerning the extent to which supportive data will be required for issuance of patents for human therapeutics. If data additional to that available to us is required, our ability to obtain patent protection could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Although the USPTO issued utility guidelines in 1995 that addressed the requirements for demonstrating utility for biotechnology inventions, particularly for inventions relating to human therapeutics, there can be no assurance that the USPTO examiners will follow such guidelines or that the USPTO’s position will not change with respect to what is required to establish utility for gene sequences and products and methods based on such sequences. We cannot be certain that our security measures will protect our confidential information and proprietary technologies. We rely upon trade secret protection for some of our confidential and proprietary information that is not the subject matter for which patent protection is being sought. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary technologies, processes, information systems, and data and continue to explore ways to enhance such security. Such measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. While we require employees, academic collaborators, consultants, and scientific advisors to enter into confidentiality and/or non-disclosure agreements where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: • proprietary information could be disclosed; • others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, technology, or disclose such information; or • we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. If the security of our confidential information is breached, our business could be materially adversely affected. We depend upon our ability to license technologies. We may have to acquire or license certain components of our technologies or products from third parties. We may not be able to acquire from third parties or develop new technologies, either alone or with others. We 30 Table of Contents may not be able to acquire licenses on commercially reasonable terms. Failure to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 454’s technology platform is in development and the initial stages of commercialization. The technology platform of 454 is still in development. The success of commercialization of the 454 technology platform depends on many factors, including: • the acceptance of 454’s technology in the market place; • technical performance of 454’s platform in relation to existing and new technologies; • sufficient support and execution by Roche under the exclusive distribution agreement; and • 454’s ability to obtain from suppliers key components for the manufacture of the 454 instrument and reagents. 454 is subject to competition from organizations that have developed or are developing technologies and products to service 454’s potential customers. Many of the organizations competing with 454 may have greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities and marketing capabilities. 454’s competitors include: • Applera Corporation—Applied Biosystems Inc.; • Affymetrix, Inc.; • GE Healthcare; • Helicos Inc.; • Perlegen Sciences, Inc.; • Solexa, Inc.; • universities and other research institutions; and • other companies recently formed or soon to be funded to develop whole genome sequencing technologies. We believe that the future success of 454 will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position in instruments for the high throughput nucleic acid sequencing field. Before we recover development expenses for our products or technologies, such products or technologies may become obsolete as a result of technological developments by us or others. Our products could also be made obsolete by new technologies which are less expensive or more effective. We may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. The market for high throughput nucleic acid sequencing may not be sufficient to generate revenues significant enough for 454 to achieve profitability. 454 has a limited history of manufacturing instrument systems and consumable products, and its success, in part, depends on its ability to provide commercially successful products to Roche. 454 has limited experience manufacturing products and consumable reagents in significant volumes. 454 has only recently begun manufacturing products on a commercial scale and may be unable to provide products in the volumes required, or to complete projects at its facility. 454 may encounter previously unknown manufacturing difficulties that could significantly reduce production or the ability to manufacture its systems and products economically. 31 Table of Contents 454 does not have a history of managing inventory levels. Reagents are subject to obsolescence. If inventory of consumables is not managed appropriately, this could result in 454 having to write-off expired products, potentially impacting its ability to provide products and services. If a natural disaster were to significantly damage 454’s facility or a supplier of critical components, or if other events were to cause operations to fail, these events could prevent 454 from manufacturing products and offering its services. For the foreseeable future, we will rely on a single distributor, Roche, to generate product revenue. If Roche is unable to sell 454’s products effectively, it could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. We have granted Roche the right to be our exclusive, worldwide sales and marketing distributor for 454’s high-throughput instrument systems, proprietary kits and reagents. As a result, we are dependent on Roche and its ability to effectively market 454’s current products. If Roche is unable to sell 454’s products effectively, we will not have the ability to seek other customers for 454’s products at least until such time as satisfactory arrangements are made with Roche. A portion of 454’s sales are to international customers and international sales are subject to risks. 454’s instrument systems and reagents will be sold internationally by Roche. 454 also offers sequencing services to clients worldwide and intends to expand its international presence. International sales entail a variety of risks, including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which products are imported; • difficulties in obtaining export licenses or other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. In addition, sales to international customers typically result in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. 454 is also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on 454’s business, financial condition and operating results. Patents may not provide sufficient protection for the 454 technology. 454’s products and services are based on the combination of several complex technologies. 454 has developed some of these technologies internally and has pursued patent protection in the U.S. and other countries for certain developments, improvements, and inventions it has developed that are incorporated into 454’s products or that fall within its fields of interest. Other of the technologies utilized by 454 are owned by third parties and are used by 454 under license. There are relatively few decided court cases interpreting the scope of patent claims in these technologies, and 454 believes that its products and services do not infringe upon the technology covered by valid and enforceable patents. This belief could be successfully challenged by third parties. 454’s patent applications may not protect its products, processes and technologies because of the following reasons: • there is no guarantee that any of 454’s pending patent applications will result in additional issued patents; • 454 may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable; 32 Table of Contents • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to 454 or its collaborative customers will provide a basis for commercially viable products; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to 454 or its collaborative customers will provide 454 with any competitive advantages; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to 454 or its collaborative customers will not be challenged or circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to others will not have an adverse effect on 454’s ability to do business. 454 could be subject to claims for infringing on patents of other intellectual property rights. In addition, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which 454 operates is still evolving. Due to the fact that 454’s business depends in large part on advancements made in genomic sequencing technology, there remains a constant risk of intellectual property litigation affecting the company. The patent positions of organizations developing these products, services and technology, including 454, are generally uncertain and could involve complex legal and factual questions. The degree of future protection for 454’s proprietary rights is uncertain. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate any of 454’s technologies, or, if patents are issued to 454, design around the patented technologies developed by 454. In addition, 454 could incur substantial costs in litigation if it is required to defend themselves in patent lawsuits brought by third parties, or if 454 initiates such lawsuits. From time to time, third parties may assert that 454 is infringing patents owned by such third parties. 454 will endeavor to settle such claims by mutual agreement on a satisfactory basis, which would result in withdrawal of the claim and/or result in the granting of licenses to 454. However, 454 cannot make any assurances as to the outcome of any future claims. It is uncertain whether we will be able to successfully develop and commercialize our new products or to what extent we can increase our revenues or become profitable. Although we, through 454, have developed DNA sequencing instrument systems and provide DNA sequencing services, we cannot be certain that 454 can successfully develop any new commercially acceptable products. Therefore we may not be able to recover our investment in 454. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we do not currently maintain any environmental liability or toxic tort claim insurance coverage to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Results We have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. As of December 31, 2005, we had total consolidated debt of $176.2 million, of which $66.2 million is due February 2007 and $110.0 million is due February 2011; and for the year ended December 31, 2005, we had a deficiency of earnings available to cover fixed charges of $75.6 million. A variety of uncertainties and contingencies will affect our future performance, many of which are beyond our control. We may not generate sufficient cash flow in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our debt service requirements with respect to our debt that we sold in 2000 and 2004. The following table shows, as of December 31, 2005, the remaining aggregate amount of our interest payments due in each of the years listed (in millions): Year AggregateInterest 2006 $ 8.4 2007 6.4 2008 4.4 2009 4.4 2010 4.4 2011 2.2 Total $ 30.2 Our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may need to raise additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We believe that we have sufficient capital to satisfy our capital needs for at least the next twenty-four months. However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts on a going-forward basis. To the extent that we need to obtain additional funding, the amount of additional capital we would need to raise would depend on many factors, including: • the number, breadth, and progress of our research, product development, and clinical programs; • our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborations; • the progress of our collaborators; • our costs incurred in enforcing and defending our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our products. 34 Table of Contents We expect that we would raise any additional capital we require through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or additional collaborations and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that in the future these sources of liquidity will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. In appropriate strategic situations, we may seek financial assistance from other sources, including contributions by others to joint ventures and other collaborative or licensing arrangements for the development and testing of products under development. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, the issuance of such securities would result in ownership dilution to our shareholders. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or product candidates, or to grant licenses on unfavorable terms. The relinquishing of rights or granting of licenses on unfavorable terms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If adequate funds are not available, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. However, should we be unable to obtain future financing either through the methods described above or through other means, we may be unable to meet the critical objective of our long-term business plan, which is to successfully develop and market pharmaceutical products. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in biotechnology companies such as ours, or in the marketplace in general, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may not be able to raise such funds at the time that we desire or any time thereafter. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated greatly and may continue to do so. Our operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly basis. We expect that losses will continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that these fluctuations may be substantial. Our results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which may cause our stock price to decline and result in losses to investors. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • changes in the demand for our services; • the nature, pricing, and timing of products and services provided to our collaborators; • our ability to compete effectively in our therapeutic discovery and development efforts against competitors that have greater financial or other resources or drug candidates that are in further stages of development; • acquisition, licensing, and other costs related to the expansion of our operations; • losses and expenses related to our investments; • regulatory developments or changes in public perceptions relating to the use of genetic information and the diagnosis and treatment of disease based on genetic information; • regulatory actions and changes related to the development of drugs; • changes in intellectual property laws that affect our patent rights; • payments of milestones, license fees, or research payments under the terms of our external alliances and collaborations and our ability to monitor and enforce such payments; and • the timing of intellectual property licenses that we may enter. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, fluctuations in quarterly results could affect the market price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Our debt investments are impacted by the financial viability of the underlying companies. We have a diversified portfolio of investments of which $105.9 million at December 31, 2005 were invested in U.S. Treasuries and debt investments that are sponsored by the U.S. Government. Our corporate fixed-rate debt investments comply with our policy of investing in only investment-grade debt instruments. The ability for 35 Table of Contents the debt to be repaid upon maturity or to have a viable resale market is dependent, in part, on the financial success of the underlying company. Should the underlying company suffer significant financial difficulty, the debt instrument could either be downgraded or, in the worst case, our investment could be worthless. This would result in our losing the cash value of the investment and incurring a charge to our statement of operations. Risks Related to Our Convertible Debt and Our Common Stock into which Our Debt is Convertible The market price of our common stock is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. For example, during fiscal year 2005, the sale price of our stock ranged from a high of $7.28 per share to a low of $2.75 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. These factors include: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, clinical results, or new products by us or our competitors; • introduction of new products or new pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or others in our industry; • announcement by the government or other agencies regarding the economic health of the United States and the rest of the world; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; • changes in market valuations of companies within the biotechnology industry; and • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts. We have significant leverage as a result of the sales of our debt in 2000 and 2004. In February 2000, in connection with the sale of our 6% convertible subordinated debentures due in 2007, we incurred $150.0 million of indebtedness. In 2004, we repurchased $20.0 million of these debentures, for total consideration of $20.0 million, plus accrued interest of $0.05 million to the date of repurchase. During 2005, we repurchased $63.8 million of these debentures, for total consideration of $61.5 million, plus accrued interest of $1.2 million to the date of repurchase. The remaining indebtedness of $66.2 million is due in February 2007 and our interest payment obligations on such amount through maturity is approximately $6.0 million. In February 2004, in connection with the sale of our 4% convertible subordinated notes due in 2011, we incurred an additional $100.0 million of indebtedness. In addition, in March 2004, the initial purchasers exercised their option to purchase an additional $10.0 million of 4% convertible subordinated notes due in 2011. As a result of this indebtedness of $110.0 million, our interest payment obligations amount to $4.4 million per year. The degree to which we are leveraged could adversely affect our ability to obtain further financing for working capital, acquisitions, or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which may be subject to the financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our convertible debt is an unsecured obligation and is not guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, it is effectively subordinated to all of our current and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the assets securing the indebtedness. Furthermore, our right to receive any distribution of assets of any subsidiary upon that subsidiary’s liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise, is subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent we also are recognized as a creditor of that subsidiary. As a result, our convertible debt is effectively subordinated to the claims of such creditors. 36 Table of Contents There are no restrictive covenants in our indentures relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness. The indentures governing our convertible debt due in 2007 and in 2011 do not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payment of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, incurrence of liens, or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. We may therefore incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness senior to these notes. Our convertible debt is the exclusive obligation of CuraGen Corporation. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due under the convertible debt or to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans, or advances by our subsidiaries to us could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations. Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future working capital, borrowings, or equity financing will be available to pay or refinance such debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, we may have to delay or curtail our research and development programs. The level of our indebtedness among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. Our ability to repurchase notes, if required, with cash upon a change in control or fundamental change may be limited. In certain circumstances involving a change in control, we may be required to repurchase some or all of the notes due 2007. In certain circumstances involving a fundamental change, we may be required to repurchase some or all of the notes due 2011. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient financial resources at such time or would be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of the notes. Our ability to repurchase the notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture, and by such indebtedness and agreements as may be entered into, replaced, supplemented, or amended from time to time. Securities we issue to fund our operations could cause dilution to our shareholders’ ownership. We may decide to raise additional funds through a public or private debt or equity financing to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of current shareholders will be reduced, and the new equity securities may have rights with priority over our common stock. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to us or our existing shareholders, if at all. Any conversion of our convertible debt into shares of common stock will dilute the ownership interest of our current shareholders. The conversion price of our convertible debt due in February 2007 is $63.8275 per share and the conversion price of our convertible debt due in February 2011 is approximately $9.69 per share. 37 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 