D. Risk Factors Our shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. We are dependent on a limited number of customers and on our customers' ability to compete and succeed in their marketplace for the products we manufacture. We are also dependent on limited end markets, primarily within the communications, consumer and computing markets, for a substantial portion of our revenue. A decline in revenue from the customers on which we are dependent or the loss of a large customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. During 2011, two customers individually represented more than 10% of our total revenue, and our top 10 customers represented 71% of our total revenue. During 2010, one customer from our consumer end market individually represented more than 10% of our total revenue, and our top 10 customers represented 72% of total revenue. Research in Motion Limited (RIM), a consumer end market customer, represented 19% of total revenue in 2011 (2010 — 20%). Our customers' ability to compete and succeed in their marketplace (for the products we manufacture) would likely impact our operating results. Our customers' success in the marketplace is directly affected by continued and rapid shifts in technology, changes in end market demand and increased competition in their markets. In the past, some of our customers have experienced severe revenue erosion, pricing and margin pressures, and excess inventories that, in turn, have adversely affected our operating results. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. The mix of our customers and the types of products or services we provide to these customers will have an impact on our operating results from period-to-period. To reduce this reliance, we have been targeting new customers and new services in our traditional markets, as well as expanding our business in the diversified markets such as industrial, aerospace and defense, healthcare, green technology and the semiconductor capital equipment market. We continue to pursue acquisition opportunities to further diversify our revenue and/or our customer base, although there can be no assurance that any acquisition will increase revenue or reduce our customer concentration. Acquisitions are also subject to integration risk and volumes and margins could be lower than we anticipate. During the past two years, we completed the acquisitions of Invec Solutions Limited (Invec), Allied Panels Entwicklungs-und Produktions GmbH (Allied Panels), and the semiconductor equipment contract manufacturing operations of Brooks Automation, Inc. (Brooks Automation) to enhance our service offerings and expand our customer base. As we continue to pursue opportunities in new markets, we may encounter challenges as our knowledge or experience may be limited in these new markets or technologies. Although we generally enter into master supply agreements with our customers, the level of business to be transacted under those agreements is not guaranteed. Instead, we bid on a program-by-program basis and typically receive customer purchase orders for specific quantities and timing of products. We are dependent on customers to fulfill the terms associated with these orders and/or contracts. There is no assurance that present or future large customers will not terminate their manufacturing or service arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the volume of manufacturing or other services they order from us, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Customers may also shift business to a competitor or bring programs in-house to improve their own utilization or to adjust the 6 concentration of their supplier base. Significant reductions in, or the loss of, revenue from any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure the timely replacement of delayed, cancelled or reduced orders with new business. In addition, the ramping of new programs can take from several months to more than a year before production starts and may require significant up-front investments and increased working capital requirements. During this start-up period, these programs may generate losses or may not achieve the expected financial performance due to start-up inefficiencies. These programs are also subject to significant change or outright cancellation, compared to the expectations at the time the new business was awarded, due to changes in end-market demand or changes in the viability of our customers' products in the marketplace. The end markets we serve can experience major fluctuations in demand which, in turn, can significantly impact our operations. Enterprise communications and consumer were our two largest end markets representing 26% and 25%, respectively, of total revenue for 2011. In general, business in the consumer end market and, in particular, smartphones, is highly competitive and characterized by shorter product lifecycles, higher revenue volatility, and lower margins. In addition, program volumes can vary significantly period-to-period based on the strength in end-market demand or the timing of ramping new programs. End-user preferences for these products and services can change rapidly and these programs are shifted among EMS competitors. Our exposure to this end market could lead to volatility in our revenue and operating margins and adversely impact our financial position and cash flows. We are in an industry comprised of numerous competitors and aggressive pricing dynamics. We are in a highly competitive industry. We compete globally to provide innovative supply chain solutions to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and service providers in the communications (comprised of enterprise communications and telecommunications), consumer, computing (comprised of servers and storage) and diversified (comprised of industrial, aerospace and defense, healthcare, green technology, semiconductor capital equipment and other) end markets. Our competitors include Benchmark Electronics, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Plexus Corp., and Sanmina-SCI Corporation, as well as smaller EMS companies that often have a regional, product, service or industry-specific focus or original design manufacturers (ODMs) that provide internally designed products and manufacturing services. We also face indirect competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and prospective customers, as these companies could choose to manufacture products internally rather than to outsource to EMS providers, or they may choose to insource previously outsourced business, particularly where internal excess capacity exists. The competitive environment in our industry is very intense and aggressive pricing is a common business dynamic. Some of our competitors have greater scale as well as a broader service offering than we have. While we have increased our capacity in lower-cost regions to reduce our costs, these regions may not provide the same operational benefits that they have in the past due to rising costs and a more aggressive pricing environment. Additionally, our current or potential competitors may also increase or shift their presence in new lower-cost regions to try to offset the continuous competitive pressure and increasing labor costs, may develop or acquire services comparable or superior to those we develop, combine or merge to form larger competitors, or adapt more quickly than we may to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Some of our competitors also have capabilities to manufacture components, such as metal or plastic enclosures, semiconductors and cabling, they use in the products they assemble. This expanded capability may provide them with a competitive advantage and greater cost savings and may lead to more aggressive pricing for electronics manufacturing services. Competition has caused and will continue to cause pricing pressures, increased working capital requirements and reduced profits, or a loss of market share (from both program and customer disengagements), any of which could materially and adversely affect us. These factors have exerted and will continue to exert additional pressures on pricing for components and services, thereby increasing the competitive pressures in the EMS industry. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on us. 7 We are operating in an uncertain global economic environment. The uncertain global economy and financial markets continue to limit overall visibility to end markets. This uncertainty may continue to impact our industry, resulting in lower demand for some of the products we manufacture and limiting end-market visibility for our customers. This environment can pose significant risk to our business by impacting demand for our customers' products, the financial condition of our customers or suppliers, as well as the level of customer consolidations. A deterioration in the economic environment may accelerate the effect of the various risk factors described in this Annual Report, as well as result in other unforeseen events that will impact our business and financial condition. Rising oil and other commodity prices may negatively impact our operating results due to higher production and transportation costs. We rely on various energy sources in our production and transportation activities. The price of commodities, including oil, has been volatile and remains uncertain. Increased prices for energy and other commodities could result in higher raw material and component costs and transportation costs. Any increase in our costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers could adversely impact our operating results. Our results can be affected by rising labor costs. There is some uncertainty with respect to rising labor costs, in particular within the lower-cost regions in which we operate. Any increase in labor costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers could adversely impact our operating results. Our operations could be adversely affected by local events, including natural disasters, political instability, labor and social unrest, criminal activity and other risks present in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our operations and those of our customers, component suppliers or our logistic partners may be disrupted by local events, including natural disasters (such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the flooding in Thailand), political instability, labor and social unrest, criminal activity and other risks present in the jurisdictions in which we, our suppliers and customers operate. Such events could seriously harm our results of operations and increase our costs. We have insurance to cover damage to our facilities, including damage that may occur as a result of natural disasters, such as flooding and earthquakes, or other events. Our insurance policies are subject to deductibles and coverage limits and may not provide adequate coverage. Increased international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures, conflicts in the Middle East and Asia, security issues at the U.S./Mexico border related to illegal immigration or criminal activities associated with illegal drug activities, labor and social unrest, strained international relations arising from these conflicts and the related decline in consumer confidence may hinder our ability to conduct business. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and could affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. We rely on a variety of common carriers for the transportation of materials and products and for their ability to route these materials and products through various international ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of any important supplier's facility or operations, or at any major port or airport, could result in manufacturing and shipping delays or expediting charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. These events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and customer confidence and spending in particular, which in turn could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The impact of these events on the volatility of the U.S. and world financial markets could increase the volatility of the market price of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers and suppliers. 8 We may encounter difficulties expanding our operations which could adversely affect our operating results. As we expand our business, enter into new markets and products, invest more capital in research and development, acquire new businesses or capabilities, and transfer business from one region to another, we may encounter difficulties that result in higher than expected costs associated with such activities and customer dissatisfaction with our performance. Potential difficulties related to our growth and/or operations could include: •our ability to manage growth effectively, including having trained personnel to manage operations, new customers and new products; •maintaining existing customer, supplier, employee and other favorable business relationships during periods of transition; •unanticipated disruptions in our operations which may impact our ability to deliver to the customer on time, to produce quality products and to ensure overall customer satisfaction; and •our ability to respond rapidly to changes in customer demand or to program or customer losses. We may encounter difficulties with the ramping and execution of new program wins from existing or new customers. We may require significant investments to support these new programs, including increased working capital requirements, and may generate lower margins during the ramp period. There is no guarantee that we will benefit from, or be able to grow our business as a result of, our increased investments. In addition, as we pursue opportunities in new markets or technologies, we may encounter challenges due to our limited knowledge or experience. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of growth in new markets, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Inherent difficulties in managing capacity utilization and unanticipated changes in customer orders place strains on our planning and supply chain execution and may affect our operating results. Our customers are dependent on EMS providers for new product introductions and rapid response times to meet changes in volume requirements. Most of our customers typically do not commit to production schedules for more than 30 days to 90 days in advance and we often experience volatility in customer orders. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue can occur in the last month of the quarter and could be subject to change or cancellation that will affect our quarter-to-quarter results. Accordingly, we cannot always forecast the level of customer orders with certainty. This can make it difficult to order appropriate levels of materials and to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In addition, customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. When customers change production volumes or request different products to be manufactured than what they originally forecasted to us, the unavailability of components and materials for such changes could also impact our revenue and working capital performance. Furthermore, in order to guarantee continuity of supply for many of our customers, we are required to manufacture and hold a specified amount of finished goods in our warehouses. The uncertainty of our customers' end markets, intense competition in our customers' industries and general order volume volatility have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying or canceling the delivery of some of the products we manufacture for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Changes or delays in customer orders could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and working capital performance, including requiring us to carry higher than expected levels of inventory. We may be able to return or re-sell this inventory, or we may be required to hold the inventory for a period of time, any of which may result in our taking additional reserves for the inventory if it becomes excess or obsolete. Order cancellations and delays could also lower our asset utilization, resulting in higher levels of unproductive assets and lower margins. Any of these factors or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 9 Our results can be affected by limited availability of components. A significant portion of our costs is for the purchase of electronic components. All of the products we manufacture or assemble require one or more components that we order from component suppliers. An interruption in supply from a component supplier, especially for single-sourced components, could have a significant impact on our operations and on our customers, if we are unable to deliver finished products in a timely manner. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production as well as revenue relating to products using that component, and may result in our carrying higher levels of inventory and extended lead times, or may cause price increases in the products and services we provide. At various times in our industry's history, there have been industry-wide shortages of electronic components. During 2011, the EMS industry experienced component shortages primarily driven by the effects of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the flooding in Thailand. Shortages, or fluctuations in the cost of components, may have a material adverse effect on our business or cause our operating results to fluctuate from period-to-period. Changes in forecasted volumes or in our customers' requirements can affect our ability to attain components which could impact our results. Additionally, quality or reliability issues at any of our component providers, or financial difficulties that affect their production and ability to supply us with components, could halt or delay production of a customer's product which could adversely impact our operating results. We face financial risks due to foreign currency volatility. Global currency markets continue to be volatile. Although we conduct the majority of our business in U.S. dollars, our financial results are affected by the valuation of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. The European sovereign debt crisis has increased uncertainty in financial and currency markets, contributing to the market volatility. This crisis may continue to impact currency markets and negatively affect our operating results. Our significant non-U.S. currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, British pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Thai baht, Malaysian ringgit, Mexican peso, Euro, Singapore dollar, Japanese yen and the Romanian lei. We enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge against our cash flows and significant balance sheet exposures in many of these foreign currencies. Our contracts generally extend for periods ranging from one month to 15 months. Our hedging program is designed to reduce the short to medium-term variability of our foreign currency costs and exposures, and may not mitigate the full impact of currency fluctuations, which could adversely impact our operating results. Our customers may be adversely affected by rapid technological changes which may have an adverse impact on their success in their markets and on our business. Many of our customers compete in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. These conditions frequently result in shorter product lifecycles. Our success will depend largely on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. If technologies or standards supported by our customers' products become obsolete, fail to gain widespread acceptance or are cancelled, our business could be adversely affected. Declines in end-market demand for customer-specific proprietary systems in favor of open systems with standardized technologies could have an adverse impact on our business. Model obsolescence and rapid shifts in technologies, especially evident in the consumer end market, can adversely impact our operating results. The highly competitive nature of our customers' products could also drive consolidation among OEMs, which could result in product line consolidation that could impact our revenue or customer relationships. Our operating results in certain end markets are subject to seasonality and can be unpredictable. In the past, we have experienced some level of seasonality in our quarterly revenue patterns across most of the end markets we serve. As our revenue from quarter-to-quarter is dependent on the level of demand and mix in each of our end markets, it is difficult for us to predict the extent and impact of seasonality on our business. 10 Any failure to successfully manage our international operations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We have facilities in numerous countries, including Austria, China, Ireland, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania, Scotland, Singapore, Spain and Thailand. During 2011, approximately two-thirds of our revenue was produced from locations outside of North America. We also purchase the majority of components and materials from international suppliers. International operations are subject to inherent risks which may adversely affect us, including: •labor unrest and differences in regulations and statutes governing employee relations; •changes in regulatory requirements; •inflation and rising costs; •difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; •ability to build infrastructure to support operations; •changes in local tax rates and tax incentives and the adverse tax consequences of repatriating earnings; •compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including changing import and export regulations; •adverse changes in trade policies between countries in which we maintain operations; •economic and political instability; •potential restrictions on the transfer of funds; and •foreign exchange risks. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes and our inability to successfully defend tax audits or meet the conditions of tax incentives could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We conduct business operations in a number of countries, including countries where tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment or where income tax rates are low. Our taxes could increase if certain tax incentives we benefit from are retracted. A retraction could occur if we fail to satisfy the conditions on which these tax incentives are based, if they are not renewed upon expiration, if tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased or if there are changes in legislation or administrative practices. We believe we will comply with the conditions of the tax incentives; however, changes in our outlook in any particular country could impact our ability to meet the conditions. We develop our tax filing positions based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions currently in effect in the jurisdictions in which we have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations, possibly with retroactive effect. We are subject to tax audits and reviews by various tax authorities of historical information which could result in additional tax expense in future periods relating to prior results. Any such increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on our future earnings and cash flows. Certain of our subsidiaries provide financing, products and services to, and may from time-to-time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. Moreover, several jurisdictions in which we operate have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm's length pricing principles, and that contemporaneous documentation must exist to support such pricing. We currently have ongoing tax audits where the tax authorities have taken the position that income reported by our subsidiaries for certain years should have been materially higher as a result of certain inter-company transactions. The successful pursuit of the assertions made by tax authorities arising from these tax audits could result in our owing significant amounts of tax, interest and possibly penalties. There can be no assurance as to the final resolution of these claims and any resulting proceedings, and if these claims and any 11 ensuing proceedings are determined adversely against us, the amounts we may be required to pay could be material. In addition, we have and expect to continue to recognize the future benefit of certain Brazilian tax losses on the basis that these tax losses can and will be fully utilized in the fiscal period ending on the date of dissolution of our Brazilian subsidiary. While we believe that our interpretation of applicable Brazilian law is correct, our ability to realize this benefit is not certain and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. As at December 31, 2011, a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents was held by numerous foreign subsidiaries outside of Canada. Although substantially all of the cash and cash equivalents held outside of Canada could be repatriated, a significant portion may be subject to withholding taxes under current tax laws. We have not recognized deferred tax liabilities for cash and cash equivalents held by certain foreign subsidiaries related to earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Canada and that we will not repatriate in the foreseeable future (approximately $380.0 million of cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2011). We have incurred significant restructuring charges and accounting losses in the past and may experience restructuring charges and losses in future periods. In the past, we have recorded losses resulting primarily from restructuring charges and the write-down of goodwill. These amounts have varied from period-to-period. We have undertaken numerous initiatives to restructure and reduce our capacity and cost structures in response to changes in the EMS industry and end market demand, with the intention of improving utilization and reducing our cost structures. See note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 18. These restructuring actions have had a negative impact on our financial and operating results, including incurring higher operating expenses during periods of transition. In certain situations, product transfers have resulted in our inability to retain existing business or grow revenue due to execution problems resulting from significant headcount reductions, plant closures and product transfers. During 2011, we recorded restructuring charges of $14.5 million (2010 — $35.8 million). We evaluate our operations from time-to-time and may propose additional restructuring actions in the future. Any failure to successfully execute or realize the expected benefits from these initiatives, including any delay in implementing these initiatives, can have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Furthermore, we may not be profitable in future periods. We may encounter difficulties completing or integrating our acquisitions which could adversely affect our operating results. We expect to expand our presence in new end markets and/or expand our capabilities, some of which may occur through acquisitions. These transactions may involve acquisitions of entire companies and/or acquisitions of selected assets from OEMs or other companies. Potential difficulties related to our acquisitions include: •integrating acquired operations, systems and businesses; •retaining customer, supplier, employee or other business relationships of acquired operations; •addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; •limited experience with new technologies and markets; and •not achieving anticipated business volumes. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including additional revenue, operational synergies and economies of scale. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely affect our business and operating results. Previous acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets at the time of acquisition. Our failure to support the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets in periods subsequent to the acquisitions has resulted, and could in the future result, in write-downs that adversely affect our operating results. 12 The efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected by disruptions to our Information Technology (IT) systems. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for a variety of functions, including worldwide financial reporting, inventory management, procurement, invoicing and email communications. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures and disaster recovery plans, our systems and those of third parties on which we rely may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. If we or our vendors are unable to prevent such outages and breaches, our operations could be disrupted. If we are unable to recruit or retain highly skilled personnel, our business could be adversely affected. The recruitment of personnel in the EMS industry is highly competitive. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled executive, technical and management personnel. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with the majority of our employees. To date, we have been successful in recruiting and retaining executive, managerial and technical personnel; however, the loss of services of certain of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Consolidation in the electronics industry could adversely affect our business relationships or the volume of business we conduct with our customers. Our customers, competitors and suppliers are subject to merger and acquisition transactions. Future mergers and acquisitions of our customers could result in a decrease in demand from our customers or a loss of business to our competitors as customers rationalize their business and consolidate their suppliers. Mergers or consolidation among our competitors could increase their competitive advantage over us, which may also result in a loss of business if customers shift their production. We may be required to make larger contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in the future, which may have an adverse impact on our liquidity and our operating results. We maintain multiple defined benefit pension plans, as well as supplemental pension plans. Some employees in Canada, Japan and the United Kingdom (U.K.) participate in our defined benefit pension plans; however, the Canada and U.K. plans are closed to new members. We also have defined contribution plans for certain employees, primarily in Canada and the U.S. Our pension funding policy is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum local statutory funding requirements that are based on actuarial calculations. Our obligations are based on certain assumptions relating to expected plan asset performance, salary escalation, employee turnover, retirement ages, expected healthcare costs, the performance of the financial markets and discount rates. If actual results or future expectations differ from these assumptions, the amounts we are obligated to contribute to the pension plans may increase. If the financial markets result in returns lower than our assumptions, we may be required to make larger contributions in the future and our pension expense may also be impacted. If our products or services are subject to warranty claims, our business reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant costs. In certain of our sales contracts, and in some of our design and development activities, we provide warranties against defects or deficiencies in our products, services or designs. A successful claim for damages arising as a result of such defects or deficiencies, for which we are not insured or where the damages exceed our insurance coverage, or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied or limited and for which indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. As we expand our service offerings and pursue business in new end markets, our warranty obligations may increase and we may not be successful in pricing our products to appropriately cover our warranty costs. 13 We could face increased financial risk due to the potential non-performance by counterparties, including but not limited to financial institutions, customers and suppliers. The potential occurrence of default by a counterparty on its contractual obligations may result in a financial loss to us. We generally provide payment terms to our customers ranging from 15 days to 60 days. Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2011 was $810.8 million, with two customers individually representing more than 10% of the total accounts receivable. If any of our customers have insufficient liquidity, we could encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by such customers, or we may extend our payment terms, which could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. A deterioration in our customers' financial condition could result in customers going into bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. At December 31, 2011, less than 1% of our gross accounts receivable was over 90 days past due. Our allowance for doubtful accounts balance at December 31, 2011 was $2.7 million. We may be unable to keep pace with manufacturing technology changes. We continue to evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new manufacturing processes. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continually develop and market electronics manufacturing services that meet our customers' evolving needs. This could entail investing in new processes, capabilities or equipment to support new technologies used in our customers' current or future products, and to support their supply chain processes. Additionally, as we expand our service offerings, such as the launch of our new Joint Design and Manufacturing (JDM) strategy, or pursue business in new end markets, such as the semiconductor capital equipment or green technology markets, where our experience may be limited, we may be less effective in adapting to technological change. Our manufacturing and supply chain processes, test development efforts and design capabilities may not be successful. In addition, various industry-specific standards, qualifications and certifications are required to produce certain types of products for our customers. Failure to maintain those certifications could adversely affect our ability to maintain existing levels of business or win new business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property or the intellectual property of others. We believe that certain of our proprietary intellectual property rights and information provide us with a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we have taken, and intend to continue to take, appropriate steps to protect this proprietary information. These steps include signing non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees and other parties, and implementing rigid security measures. Our protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use or disclosure of our property or information. There is also a risk that infringement claims may be brought against us, our customers or our suppliers in the future. If an infringement claim is successfully asserted, we may be required to spend significant time and money to develop processes that do not infringe upon the rights of another person or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the owner. We may not be successful in such development, or any such licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could adversely affect us even if we are successful in such litigation. As we expand our service offerings and pursue business in new end markets, we may be less effective in anticipating the intellectual property risks related to new manufacturing, design and other services. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud in a timely manner. Because of the inherent limitations of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. All systems of internal control contain inherent limitations. Accordingly, we cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues, errors or instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be prevented or detected. In addition, over time, certain aspects of a control system may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate, which we may not be able to address quickly enough to prevent all instances of error or fraud. 14 We may not be able to increase revenue if the trend of outsourcing by OEMs or service providers slows. Future growth in our revenue includes a dependence on new outsourcing opportunities in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from OEMs or service providers. Our future growth will be limited to the extent that these opportunities are not available as a result of OEMs or service providers deciding to perform these functions internally or delaying their decision to outsource or our inability to win new contracts. The global economic environment has impacted, and may continue to impact, the trend of outsourcing as some customers have reversed, and other customers may reverse, their outsourcing decisions and shift production back to their own facilities to improve their factory utilization. Political pressures or negative sentiment by our customers' customers or local governments may impede the movement of production from one geography to another. These and other factors could adversely affect the rate of outsourcing generally, or adversely affect the rate of outsourcing to EMS providers, such as Celestica. Compliance with governmental laws and obligations could be costly and impact our operations. We are subject to various federal/national, state/provincial, local and multi-national environmental laws and regulations. Our environmental management systems and practices have been designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations in a manner consistent with local practice. Maintaining compliance with and responding to increasingly stringent regulations require a significant investment of time and resources and may restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities or to continue production. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could potentially result in significant fines and penalties, our operations could be suspended and our cost of related investigations could be material in any period. More complex and stringent environmental legislation continues to be imposed, including laws that place increased responsibility and requirements on the "producers" of electronic equipment and, in turn, their providers and suppliers. Such laws may relate to product inputs (such as hazardous substances and energy consumption) and product use (such as energy efficiency and waste management/recycling). Noncompliance with these requirements could potentially result in substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers and consumers. Where compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their obligations. Our customers are becoming increasingly concerned about issues such as waste management (including recycling), climate change (including the reduction of carbon footprints) and product stewardship, and expect their suppliers to be environmental leaders. Although we strive to meet such customer expectations, such demands may extend beyond our regulatory obligations and significant investments of time and resources may be required to attract and retain customers. We have generally obtained environmental assessment reports, or reviewed recent assessment reports undertaken by others, for most of our manufacturing facilities at the time of acquisition or leasing. Such assessments may not reveal all environmental liabilities and current assessments are not available for all facilities. As well, some of our operations have involved hazardous substances that could cause contamination. Although we may investigate, remediate or monitor soil and groundwater contamination at certain of our owned sites, we may not be aware of or address all such conditions and we may incur significant costs to perform such work in the future. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, environmental laws impose liability for the costs of removal, remediation or risk assessment of hazardous or toxic substances on an owner, occupier or operator of real estate, even if such person or company was unaware of or not responsible for the discharge or migration of such substances. In some instances where soil or groundwater contamination existed prior to our ownership or occupation, landlords or former owners may have retained some contractual responsibility or regulatory liability, but this may not provide sufficient protection for us to avoid liability. Third-party claims for damages or personal injury are also possible. Moreover, current remediation, mitigation and risk assessment measures may not be adequate to comply with future laws. In the healthcare end market, we face substantial regulations, primarily from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in the U.S., as well as other jurisdictions, relating to some of the healthcare products we manufacture. We are required to comply with the various statutes and regulations related to the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of our healthcare products in addition to reporting of certain information with respect to the safety of such products. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, we 15 may be faced with fines, injunctions, product recalls, or suspension of production, among other penalties. Failure to comply with these regulations could materially affect our relationships with customers and our operating results. We provide design and manufacturing related services to our customers in the aerospace and defense end market. As part of these services, we are subject to substantial regulation from government agencies including the Department of Defense and the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions. In addition, several of our sites around the world are certified in quality management standards applicable to the aerospace and defense industry. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, injunctions, and may prevent us from winning future contracts, any of which could materially affect our financial condition and operating results, as could the loss of any of our quality management certifications. Our international operations require us to comply with various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be customary for businesses to engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other laws and regulations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not be in violation of our policies. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to, among other things, adverse publicity, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the difficulty of monitoring compliance, any suspected activity would require a costly investigation by us. Compliance or the failure to comply with employment laws and regulations could be costly and impact our operating results. We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign employment laws, including those related to workplace safety, discrimination, whistle-blowing, wages and severance payments. Such laws are subject to change and there can be no assurance that we will not be found to have violated any such laws in the future. Such violations could lead to the assessment of fines or damages against us by regulatory authorities or by employees, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to comply with the conditions of government grants could lead to grant repayments and negatively impact our financial position and operating results. We have received grants from government organizations or other third parties as incentives related to capital investments or other spending. These grants often have future conditions which we must comply with or face possible repayment. We currently believe we will comply with the conditions of the grants; however, if we become unable to meet future conditions, we may be obligated to repay the grant, or a portion of the grant, which could adversely affect our financial position and operating results. Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct business. Our credit agreement contains financial and operating covenants that limit our management's discretion with respect to certain business matters. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt, create liens or other encumbrances, change the nature of our business, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, and merge or consolidate with other entities. We are exposed to interest rate fluctuations. In January 2011, we renewed our revolving credit facility on generally similar terms and conditions as our previous facility and increased the size of the facility to $400.0 million, with a maturity of January 2015. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at LIBOR or Prime rate plus a margin. Our borrowings under this facility expose us to interest rate risks due to fluctuations in these rates. Significant interest rate fluctuations may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 The deterioration of financial markets and continued instability of the global economy may adversely affect our ability to raise funds or may increase the cost of raising those funds. We currently have access to a revolving credit facility through financial institutions. We may also issue debt or equity securities to fund our operations or make acquisitions. As the financial market instability continues or deteriorates, our ability to borrow or raise capital may be impacted. In addition, a rating agency downgrade of our credit rating may also impact our ability to raise funds in the time and amount necessary for us, or we may incur additional costs of raising funds, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The interest of our controlling shareholder, Onex Corporation, with a 71% voting interest, may conflict with the interest of the remaining holders of our subordinate voting shares. Onex Corporation, or Onex, owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding multiple voting shares and less than 1% of the outstanding subordinate voting shares. The number of shares owned by Onex, together with those shares Onex has the right to vote, represents 71% of the voting interest in Celestica and less than 1% of the voting interest in our outstanding subordinate voting shares. Accordingly, Onex exercises a controlling influence over our business and affairs and has the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders where our shares vote together as a single class. Onex has the power to elect our directors and its approval is required for significant corporate transactions such as certain amendments to our articles of incorporation, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and plans of arrangement. Onex's voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of our Company that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. Under our credit agreement, it is an event of default entitling our lenders to demand repayment if Onex ceases to control Celestica unless the shares of Celestica become widely held ("widely held" meaning that no one person owns more than 20% of the votes). Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Onex and one of our directors, owns multiple voting shares of Onex, carrying the right to elect a majority of the Onex board of directors. Mr. Schwartz, therefore, effectively controls our affairs. The interests of Onex and Mr. Schwartz may differ from the interests of the remaining holders of subordinate voting shares. For additional information about shareholder rights and restrictions relative to our subordinate voting shares and multiple voting shares, see Item 10(B), "Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation." For additional information about our principal shareholders, see Item 7(A), "Major Shareholders." Onex has, from time-to-time, issued debentures exchangeable and redeemable under certain circumstances for our subordinate voting shares, entered into forward equity agreements with respect to subordinate voting shares, sold shares (after exchanging multiple voting shares for subordinate voting shares), or redeemed these debentures through the delivery of subordinate voting shares and could do so in the future. These sales could impact our share price, or have consequences on our debt and ownership structure. We face securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management's attention and resources and negative publicity. In 2007, securities class action lawsuits were commenced against us and our former Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers in the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York by certain individuals, on behalf of themselves and other unnamed purchasers of our stock, claiming that they were purchasers of our stock during the period January 27, 2005 through January 30, 2007. The plaintiffs allege violations of United States federal securities laws and seek unspecified damages. They allege that during the purported period we made statements concerning our actual and anticipated future financial results that failed to disclose certain purportedly material adverse information with respect to demand and inventory in our Mexican operations and our information technology and communications divisions. In an amended complaint, the plaintiffs added one of our directors and Onex as defendants. On October 14, 2010, the District Court granted the defendants' motions to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint in its entirety. The plaintiffs appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit the dismissal of its claims against us and our former Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, but not as to the other defendants. In a summary order dated December 29, 2011, the Court of Appeals reversed the District Court's dismissal of the consolidated amended complaint and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. Parallel class proceedings, including a claim issued in October 2011, remain against us and our former Chief Executive and 17 Chief Financial Officers in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, but neither leave nor certification of any actions has been granted by that court. We believe the allegations in the claims and the appeal are without merit and we intend to defend against them vigorously. However, there can be no assurance that the outcome of the litigation will be favorable to us or that it will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or liquidity. In addition, we may incur substantial litigation expenses in defending these claims. We have liability insurance coverage that may cover some of our litigation expenses, potential judgments and settlement costs. Potential unenforceability of civil liabilities and judgments. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. A significant number of our directors, controlling persons and officers are residents of Canada. Also, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service within the United States upon those directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States or to realize in the United States upon a judgment of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Changes in accounting standards enacted by the standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our operating results, profitability and financial condition. Accounting standards are revised periodically and/or expanded upon by the standard-setting bodies. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards and to comply with revised interpretations issued from time-to-time by these authoritative bodies, which include the Canadian Accounting Standards Board (CASB), the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In 2008, the CASB announced the adoption of IFRS for publicly accountable enterprises in Canada, effective 2011. At that time, the SEC adopted rules to accept annual filings of financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS without the annual reconciliation to U.S. GAAP under certain circumstances. Our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 2011 were our first annual financial statements prepared under IFRS. We were required to apply IFRS retroactively to our 2010 comparative data. We were not required to apply IFRS to years prior to 2010, which have been reported in the selected financial data table in Item 3(A) and prepared in accordance with prior Canadian GAAP with reconciliation to U.S. GAAP. Refer to Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and notes 2 and 3 to the 2011 Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 18 for the impact of IFRS on our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the significant accounting policies we adopted under IFRS. The FASB and IASB have been jointly collaborating on a series of projects to converge, improve and align the U.S. and international accounting standards as one global high quality standard. While there have been some delays in the convergence effort, we continue to monitor developments and consider the potential impacts. Future changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results, profitability or financial condition. Shares eligible for public sale could adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our subordinate voting shares in the public market, or the issuance of subordinate voting shares upon the exercise of stock options or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. At February 22, 2012, we had 198.3 million subordinate voting shares and 18.9 million multiple voting shares outstanding. All of the subordinate voting shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates (as defined in the U.S. Securities Act). Shares held by our affiliates include all of the multiple voting shares and 0.6 million subordinate voting shares held by Onex. An affiliate may not sell shares in the United States unless the sale is registered under the U.S. Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. Rule 144 of the U.S. Securities Act permits our affiliates to sell our shares in the United States subject to volume limitations and requirements relating to manner of sale, notice of sale and availability of current public information with respect to us. 18 In addition, as of February 22, 2012, there were 22.7 million subordinate voting shares reserved for issuance under our employee equity-based compensation plans and for director compensation, including outstanding stock options for 8.6 million subordinate voting shares and outstanding restricted share units for 2.4 million subordinate voting shares. Moreover, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, we may issue an unlimited number of additional subordinate voting shares without further shareholder approval (subject to any required stock exchange approvals). As a result, a substantial number of our subordinate voting shares will be eligible for sale in the public market at various times in the future. The issuances and/or sale of such shares would dilute the holdings of our shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. In February 2012, we launched a share buyback program allowing us to repurchase up to 16.2 million subordinate voting shares on the open market or as otherwise permitted, subject to the normal terms and limitations of such bids. The repurchase of such shares could affect the market price of our subordinate voting shares. The market price of our stock is volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of our stock. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of our company. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements by our customers, competitors or other events affecting companies in the electronics industry, currency fluctuations, general market fluctuations, and macro economic conditions may cause the market price of our subordinate voting shares to decline. 