ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS BIONUTRICS HAS A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH AN INVESTOR CAN EVALUATE ITS POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE SUCCESS. The Company commenced sales of its first product late in the second quarter of fiscal 1997. There is limited historical financial information about the Company upon which to base an evaluation of the Company's performance or to make a decision regarding an investment in shares of the Company's common stock. The Company has generated an accumulated deficit of approximately $44,832,000 through its fiscal year ended October 31, 2005; approximately $41,921,000 through October 31, 2004, $40,797,000 through October 31, 2003, and $40,037,000 through its fiscal year ended October 31, 2002. The Company's operations have been limited to the efforts of negotiating and consummating the recently entered into agreement with Nostrum and maintaining its books and records. The Company's current business plan is to focus on its relationship with Nostrum and Technologies developed by Nostrum. At this time, the Company's nutritional products are not viewed as a significant part of the Company's business. In the future, sales of products the Company may introduce may fail to achieve significant levels of market acceptance. The Company's business will be subject to all the problems, expenses, delays and risks inherent in the establishment of an early stage business enterprise, including limited capital, delays in product development, cost overruns due to price increases in raw products and unforeseen difficulties in manufacturing, uncertain market acceptance and the absence of an operating history. Therefore, the Company may never achieve or maintain profitable operations, and the Company may encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete its capital more rapidly than anticipated. THE COMPANY WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, AND IF ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IS NOT AVAILABLE, THE COMPANY MAY HAVE TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OPERATIONS. To become and remain competitive, the Company will be required to make significant investments in research and development on an ongoing basis. At this time, the Company has committed sources of financing that the Company believes would allow a limited number of its products to be developed and commercialized. For the Company to be able to continue to use its technology, including the Technology, in the development of future drug products as planned it will need additional capital beyond that committed. It is intended that this additional capital will be derived from future product sales, including products manufactured by Kirk, cash derived from product license agreements with other pharmaceutical companies or future capital raised by means of debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that additional necessary financing will be attainable on terms acceptable to the Company, in the future or at all. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, the Company may be unable to operate at its present level or develop and expand its business, develop new products or develop new markets at the rate desired, and its operating results may be adversely affected. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. The availability of equity financing is uncertain, and successful equity financing would result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. The losses incurred to date, the uncertainty regarding the ability to raise additional capital and questions concerning the Company's ability to generate net income and positive cash flows from operations may indicate that the Company will be unable to continue as a going 16 concern for a reasonable period of time. The Company's audit opinion, as of and for the three years ended October 31, 2005, also indicates that there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. THE COMPANY'S FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY MAY LIMIT ITS ABILITY TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. Competition in the pharmaceutical area is intense, and the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company. The Company may be required to obtain development and/or marketing partners to effectively enter the drug market. We expect that competition in the field of drug delivery will significantly increase in the future since smaller specialized research and development companies are beginning to concentrate on this aspect of the business. Some of the major pharmaceutical companies have invested and are continuing to invest significant resources in the development of their own drug delivery systems and technologies and some have invested funds in such specialized drug delivery companies. Many of these companies have greater financial and other resources as well as more experience than we do in commercializing pharmaceutical products. The Company believes that its principal competitors are those that have a history of developing successful controlled-release drugs. Each of these companies has developed expertise in certain types of drug delivery systems, although such expertise does not necessarily carry over to developing a controlled-release version of all drugs. Such companies may develop new drug formulations and products or may improve existing drug formulations and products more efficiently than we can. In addition, almost all of our competitors have vastly greater resources than we do. While our product development capabilities and, if obtained, patent protection may help us to maintain our market position in the field of advanced drug delivery, there can be no assurance that others will not be able to develop such capabilities or alternative technologies outside the scope of our patents, if any, or that even if patent protection is obtained, such patents will not be successfully challenged in the future. InCon Processing's current competition is primarily from specialized local and regional processing facilities. However, many of their toll processing customers have the capacity to perform toll processing and molecular separation in-house. InCon Processing's current customers may discontinue their relationship with InCon Processing, or they may choose to utilize a different local processor instead of InCon Processing. If either of these events occurs, InCon Processing's revenue would suffer. THE COMPANY MAY FAIL TO ESTABLISH OR CULTIVATE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS TO EXPAND ITS BUSINESS. The Company has stated its intent to develop its business model and build its business initially through strategic partnerships. The principal focus of these relationships is the funding of product development (and regulatory approval when necessary), marketing, sales and co-promotion of its technology/products. Manufacturing is also currently intended to be achieved through partnerships, either as part of a marketing agreement with other companies, or by contract with companies exclusive of marketing and sales. The Company may not be able to successfully form or manage such partnerships, and if not, the Company's ability to execute its 17 business plan will be at risk. Further, if these partnerships are formed but are not successful in their execution, further revenue derived from licensing payments or other such technology/product payments to the Company may not materialize. THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO MARKET ITS PRODUCTS IS SUBJECT TO THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES. The potential 505(b)(2) products the Company currently is considering to develop and market, and those that it may develop and market in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, Bionutrics' competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than the Company and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with the Company's ability to make, use and sell products either in the U.S. or international markets. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and the Company expects this to continue. IF BIONUTRICS IS UNABLE TO FILE FOR APPROVAL UNDER SECTION 505(B)(2) OF THE FDCA OR IF THE COMPANY IS REQUIRED TO GENERATE ADDITIONAL DATA RELATED TO SAFETY AND EFFICACY IN ORDER TO OBTAIN APPROVAL UNDER SECTION 505(B)(2), IT MAY BE UNABLE TO MEET ITS ANTICIPATED DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION TIMELINES. The Company's current plans for filing NDAs for its product candidates include efforts to minimize the data the Company will be required to generate in order to obtain marketing approval for its product candidates and therefore possibly obtain a shortened review period for the applications. The Company has not yet discussed or agreed with the FDA as to the nature or extent of any studies it may be required to conduct in order to achieve approval for any of its product candidates. The timeline for filing and review of NDAs is based on the Company's plan to submit NDAs under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, as a result of which the Company may rely in part on data in the public domain or elsewhere. The Company has not yet filed an NDA under Section 505(b)(2) for any product candidates. Depending on the data that may be required by the FDA for approval, some of the data may be related to products already approved by the FDA. If the data relied upon is related to products already approved by the FDA and covered by third-party patents the Company would be required to certify that it does not infringe the listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable. As a result of the certification, the third-party would have 45 days from notification of certification to initiate an action against the Company. In the event that an action is brought in response to such a certification, the approval of the Company's NDA could be subject to a stay of up to 30 months or more while the Company defends against such a suit. Approval of the Company's potential product candidates under Section 505(b)(2) may therefore be delayed until patent exclusivity expires or until the Company successfully challenges the applicability of those patents to its potential product candidates. Alternatively, the Company may elect to generate sufficient additional clinical data so that it no longer relies on data which triggers a potential stay of the approval of its product candidates. Even if no exclusivity periods apply to the Company's applications under Section 505(b)(2), the FDA has broad discretion to require the Company to generate additional data on the safety and efficacy of its product candidates to supplement third-party data on which the Company may be permitted to rely. In either event, the Company could be required, before 18 obtaining marketing approval for any of its product candidates, to conduct substantial new research and development activities beyond those the Company currently plans to engage in order to obtain approval of its product candidates. Such additional new research and development activities would be costly and time consuming. THE COMPANY MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO INCREASED GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH COULD INCREASE THE COSTS OR CAUSE THE COMPANY TO REVISE CERTAIN PRODUCT CLAIMS. The design, development and marketing of pharmaceutical compounds, on which our success depends, is subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA, and to a lesser extent, other federal and state government agencies. The FFDCA, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern the development, testing, manufacture, safety/effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of the Company's products. Non-compliance with applicable regulations can result in judicially and/or administratively imposed sanctions, including the initiation of product seizures, injunction actions, fines and criminal prosecutions. Administrative enforcement measures may involve the recall of products, as well as the refusal of an applicable government authority to enter into supply contracts or to approve new drug applications. The FDA also has the authority to withdraw its approval of drugs in accordance with regulatory due process procedures. The cost of complying with government regulations substantially increases the cost of producing the Company's products. FDA approval is required before any new drug can be marketed. The FDA requires extensive testing of new pharmaceutical products to demonstrate that such products are both safe and effective in treating the indications for which approval is sought. Testing in humans may not be commenced until after an IND exemption is granted by the FDA. A NDA or supplemental NDA must be submitted to the FDA both for new drugs that have not been previously approved by the FDA and for new combinations of, new indications for, or new delivery methods for previously approved drugs. FDA approval of an ANDA is required before a generic equivalent of an existing or referenced brand drug can be marketed. The ANDA process is abbreviated in that the FDA waives the requirement of conducting complete preclinical and clinical studies and, instead, relies on bioequivalence studies which compare the applicant's drug with an already approved reference drug. These ANDA filings allow a company to avoid the expensive and time-consuming process of clinical efficacy and safety studies that are required for NDAs. THE COMPANY HAS NO HISTORY OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OR COMMERCIALIZATION OF DRUG PRODUCTS. The Company has not previously formulated, researched, developed, and filed for FDA approval, nor has it commercialized any drug product, generic or 505(b)(2). While the Company believes it can successfully accomplish the development, manufacturing and launch of products based on its licensed Technology by hiring requisite competent and experienced management and operational personnel, employing its intended relationship with Kirk or teaming with other pharmaceutical companies to create strategic partnerships at various stages of the process, there is no assurance that any or all of this can be accomplished to the degree necessary to ensure a successful drug development and commercialization operation. 19 THE COMPANY MAY NOT COMPLETE THE ACQUISITION OF KIRK PHARMACEUTICALS, LLC WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURING OF PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS. On July 22, 2005, the Company announced that it entered into an agreement to acquire Kirk Pharmaceuticals, LLC. The closing of this purchase is dependent upon the Company receiving approval from the Department of Drug Enforcement as the new owner, completion of related financing and completion of due diligence. There is no assurance that these matters will be accomplished and that the acquisition will be successfully completed. If not completed the Company's plans for product R&D and execution of product CMC could be adversely affected. The Company does not presently have an alternative site for its R&D or CMC efforts and its time table for FDA filings of its planned ANDAs could be negatively impacted by the need to locate an appropriate replacement to Kirk. THE COMPANY EXPECTS TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE AS A RESULT OF INCREASES IN ITS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES, INCLUDING COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH CLINICAL TRIALS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE. Bionutrics is a development stage company and is anticipating a prolonged period of losses and negative cash flows while it develops and commences commercialization of its planned products. As a result, its chances for achieving profitability on a sustained basis will depend on numerous factors, including the following: o successful development and testing of product candidates; o the receipt of required regulatory approvals relating to product candidates; o commercialization of our products; and o gaining a competitive position in the market. THE COMPANY FACES PRODUCT LIABILITY RISKS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE INSURANCE TO PROTECT IT AGAINST LOSSES. As a marketer of pharmaceutical products and dietary supplements that are intended to be ingested by consumers, even if sold to the consumer by a third party company and/or formulated in a third party company's product, the Company may be subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that its products contain contaminants or include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. While no such claims have been made to date, any future product liability claims and the resulting adverse publicity could harm the Company's business. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against the Company for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, the Company's assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and its business operations could be impaired. BECAUSE OF THE SPECIALIZED NATURE OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS, THE TERMINATION OF RELATIONSHIPS WITH ITS KEY MANAGEMENT AND SCIENTIFIC PERSONNEL OR ITS INABILITY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL COULD PREVENT THE COMPANY FROM DEVELOPING ITS TECHNOLOGIES AND OBTAINING FINANCING. 20 The Company is dependent on its management, particularly Drs. Ronald Lane, a Founder and the Chief Executive Officer, and Nirmal Mulye, Chief Scientific Officer for all its business and technology development activities. The Company is dependent on its ability to attract, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel. The Company is currently in the process of preparing long-term employment contracts for these two key employees. The loss of the services of Drs. Lane and Mulye or other executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company. IF THE SUPPLIERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF THE COMPANY'S INGREDIENTS ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTIES, THE COMPANY COULD EXPERIENCE PRODUCTION PROBLEMS. The Company's functional nutrition technology and products are based on raw products or ingredients that may be naturally derived. Many of the potential sources for these raw products or ingredients originate or are accessed in the Third World. Because of political or economic uncertainty associated with Third World countries, there may be catastrophic events including acts of God that could affect the reliability or dependability of sources so located. The Company has identified several potential suppliers of such raw products in various Third World countries. These potential suppliers, while evidencing current economical soundness and viable operations, are subject to these same uncertainties. There is no assurance, therefore, that in the face of catastrophic events in the Third World, these potential suppliers would be able to meet the product needs of the Company or of the Company's strategic partners. THE COMPANY MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY IN ENTERING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. The creation of strategic partnerships and the marketing and sale of the Company's pharmaceutical technology/products could experience difficulty entering international markets due to greater regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems and problems related to entering new markets with different cultural bases and political systems. Operating in international markets exposes the Company to certain risks, including, among other things: (i) changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may limit the Company's ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the United States; (ii) exposure to currency fluctuations; (iii) the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs; and (iv) political instability. If the Company expands into international operations, these and other risks associated with international operations are likely to be encountered. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to enter into agreements with international marketing partners and thereby would limit the expansion of its revenue base. THE COMPANY RELIES ON PATENTS, LICENSES AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS TO PROTECT ITS PROPRIETARY INTERESTS. The Company's success depends in part on its continued ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering its products. The Company's current patent rights are held by its subsidiary LipoGenics and relate to dietary supplement and potential future new chemical entity drug development. There can be no assurance that the Company's licenses, patents and patent applications are or will be sufficiently comprehensive to protect these 21 products. Although there can be no assurance, the Company may be successful in filing for patent protection for generic or 505(b)(2) products it develops in the future independent or together with the Nostrum technology. The process of seeking further patent protection can be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that the Company will have sufficient capital reserves to cover the expense of patent prosecution for its application or that all or even any patents will issue from currently pending or any future patent applications or that any of the patents when issued will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to the Company. While the Company believes the bases on which patent applications were filed correspond to the patents that have been issued for composition and method of production and use and are reasonable given the issuance of the latter patents, there can be no assurance that the patents for which it has applied will be issued. The Company may be subject to or may be required to initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Such proceedings could demand significant financial and management resources. The Company may receive communications alleging possible infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others. The Company believes that in most cases it could obtain necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but it may be unable to do so. In addition, litigation could ensue or damages for any past infringements could be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of efforts by the Company, may be necessary to enforce patents or other intellectual property rights of the Company or to defend the Company against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or litigation arising out of infringement claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company. THE COMPANY'S STOCK IS THINLY TRADED AND MAY EXPERIENCE PRICE VOLATILITY, WHICH COULD AFFECT A STOCKHOLDER'S ABILITY TO SELL THE COMPANY'S STOCK OR THE PRICE FOR WHICH IT CAN BE SOLD. There has been and may continue to be, at least for the immediate future, a limited public market for the common stock of the Company. On July 18, 2001, the Company's common stock was delisted from quotation on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market due to non-compliance with certain continuing listing requirements. From July 19, 2001 to February 28, 2003, the Company's common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "BNRX.OB." From March 1, 2003 to July 12, 2005, the Company's common stock was quoted on the "Pink Sheets" under the symbol "BNRX.PK". On July 13, 2005 the Company's common stock was approved by the NASD and appeared on the OTCBB with an unpriced quote. Three business days later, on July 18, 2005, HDSN showed a priced quote for BNRX.OB. Thirty days later, on August 15, 2005 all other market makers were eligible to appear on the OTCBB with their quotes, and have been quoted there through the present. RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OF THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK WILL RESULT IN DILUTION TO OTHER HOLDERS OF ITS COMMON STOCK. As of the date hereof, options to acquire a total of 113,000 shares were outstanding under the Company's 1996 Stock Option Plan. An additional 441,153 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to the exercise of options that may be granted in the future under the Company's 1996 Stock Option Plan. The Company also has outstanding options and warrants not issued under the 1996 Plan to purchase up to 635,160 shares of common stock, as 22 well as a convertible promissory notes of $2,995,000; convertible into shares of common stock at $3.00 per share, unless adjusted by formula per the convertible promissory note agreements. During the terms of such options and warrants, the holders thereof will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of the common stock with resulting dilution in the interests of holders of common stock. The existence of such stock options and warrants could adversely affect the terms on which the Company can obtain additional financing, and the holders of the options and warrants can be expected to exercise those options and warrants at a time when the Company, in all likelihood, would be able to obtain additional capital by offering shares of its common stock on terms more favorable to the Company than those provided by the exercise of the options and warrants. The Company also has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of one or more series of convertible preferred stock. The issuance of those shares could result in the dilution of the voting power of outstanding shares of common stock and could have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO GAIN CONTROL OF THE COMPANY, EVEN IF THE ACQUISITION OF CONTROL WOULD BE IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS. The Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation and the Nevada General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of the Company, even when those attempts may be in the best interest of stockholders. Nevada law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with "interested stockholders" (as defined therein). The Restated Articles provide for a staggered board, which makes it more difficult for the stockholders to change the majority of the Company's directors. In addition, the Company's Restated Articles authorize the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect the voting power of the holders of its common stock. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS SHOULD NOT BE RELIED ON BECAUSE THEY ARE INHERENTLY UNCERTAIN. Certain statements and information contained in this 10-K regarding matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, as that term is defined under applicable securities laws. These include statements concerning the Company's future, proposed, and anticipated activities; certain trends with respect to its revenue, operating results, capital resources, and liquidity, and certain trends with respect to the markets in which the Company competes or its industry in general. Forward-looking statements, by their very nature, include risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Accordingly, actual results may differ, perhaps materially, from those anticipated in or implied by such forward-looking statements. 23 