D. Risk Factors Our shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. We have had significant restructuring charges and losses for several years and may experience restructuring charges and losses in future periods. We generated net earnings in 1999 and 2000. We recorded net losses of $55.9 million in 2001, $455.4 million in 2002, $266.7 million in 2003, $854.1 million in 2004 and $46.8 million in 2005. In 2001, we incurred $22.8 million of integration costs related to acquisitions, $237.0 million of restructuring charges, and a $36.1 million write-down of certain assets, primarily goodwill, intangible assets and certain long-term equity investments, with these charges totaling $295.9 million ($245.2 million after income taxes). In 2002, we incurred $21.1 million of integration costs related to acquisitions, $385.4 million of restructuring charges, a $285.4 million write-down of certain assets, primarily goodwill and intangible assets, and $9.6 million in deferred financing costs and debt redemption fees, with these charges totaling $701.5 million ($582.2 million after income taxes). In 2003, we incurred $94.9 million of restructuring charges, and an $82.8 million write-down of intangible assets and capital assets, with these charges totaling $177.7 million ($166.8 million after income taxes). In 2004, we incurred $153.7 million of restructuring charges, a $387.3 million write-down of goodwill, capital and intangible assets, and a $116.8 million write-down of doubtful accounts receivable for a specific customer, with these charges totaling $657.8 million (there was no tax benefit recorded on these charges in 2004). In 2005, we incurred $160.1 million of restructuring charges offset by a $13.8 million recovery relating to a specific customer and a $13.9 million gain on repurchase of LYONS, with these charges totaling $132.4 million (there was no tax benefit recorded on these charges in 2005). In January 2005, we announced additional pre-tax restructuring charges of between $225.0 million and $275.0 million, to be recorded throughout 2005 and 2006. We have undertaken numerous initiatives to restructure and reduce our capacity in response to the challenging technology end-markets, with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. These initiatives have included reducing and consolidating the number and location of our production facilities and reducing headcount in remaining locations, largely to align our capacity and infrastructure with anticipated customer demand, and to rationalize our operations worldwide. We will continue to evaluate our operations, and may propose future restructuring 5 actions as a result of changes in the marketplace, including the exit from less profitable operations or services no longer demanded by our customers. Any failure to successfully execute these initiatives, including any delay in effecting these initiatives, can have a material adverse impact on our results. Furthermore, we may not be profitable in future periods. We are in a highly competitive industry which has resulted in lower prices, reduced gross margins and loss of revenue. We are in a highly competitive industry. We compete on a global basis to provide electronic product solutions to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the communications, computing, aerospace and defense, automotive, industrial and consumer end markets. Our competitors include major domestic and foreign companies such as Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Solectron Corporation, as well as smaller EMS companies that often have a regional product, service or industry specific focus. In addition, in recent years, original design manufacturers (ODMs), which are companies that provide internally designed products and manufacturing services to OEMs, have been increasing their share of outsourced manufacturing services provided to OEMs in several markets, such as notebook and desktop computers, personal computer motherboards, and consumer electronic products, such as cell phones. While we have not, to date, encountered significant competition from ODMs in the end markets we participate in, such competition may increase if our business in these markets grows, or if ODMs expand further into, or beyond, these markets. We also face indirect competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and prospective customers, as these companies could choose to manufacture products internally rather than to outsource to EMS providers. Some of our competitors have a greater production presence in lower-cost geographies, as well as greater manufacturing, financial, procurement, research and development and marketing resources than we have. Accordingly, our current or potential competitors may develop or acquire services comparable or superior to those we develop, combine or merge to form larger competitors, or adapt more quickly than we will to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition has caused and may continue to cause excessive pricing pressures, increased working capital requirements, reduced profits or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, the EMS industry has excess manufacturing capacity and has seen increased competition from Asian competitors. This has exerted and will continue to exert additional pressures on pricing for components and services, thereby increasing the competitive pressures in the EMS industry. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may materially adversely affect us. We are dependent on the computing and communications industries and are exposed to changes in general economic conditions that can continue to adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the unfavorable general economic conditions over the past few years, the reduced demand for technology capital goods, and the declining proprietary computing product demand, our sales have been negatively affected. Our financial performance depends on our customers' viability and financial stability, and the end-market demand for our customers' products. A majority of our customer base, in turn, depends substantially on the growth of the computing and communications industries. These industries are characterized by rapid changes in technologies, increased standardization of technologies and shortening of product lifecycles. These industries have experienced severe revenue erosion, pricing and margin pressures, and excess inventories over this period. More recently, some of our customers in the communications sector have merged or been acquired by third parties that are not our customers. Future mergers and acquisitions could result in a decrease in demand from our customers in the telecommunications industry or our loss of business to our competitors as customers rationalize their business and consolidate their suppliers. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and declines in sales to these customers could continue to adversely affect our operating results. Our two largest customers in 2005 were Cisco Systems and IBM, each of which represented more than 10% of our total 2005 revenue and which in aggregate represented 27% of our total 2005 revenue. Our top 10 customers represented 63% of our total 2005 revenue. Our two largest customers in 2004 were Cisco Systems and IBM, each of which represented more than 10% of our total 2004 revenue and in aggregate represented 26% of our total 2004 revenue. Our top 10 customers in 2004 represented 65% of our total 2004 revenue. We 6 expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. Mergers among our customers or our customers' customers could increase concentration and/or reduce total demand as the combined entities rationalize their business and consolidate their suppliers. In addition, some of our customers have, over the past several years, significantly reduced or delayed the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us. We cannot assure that present or future large customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce, or delay the amount of manufacturing services ordered from us, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Other than in connection with asset acquisitions, otherwise known as "OEM divestitures," we generally do not enter into long-term supply commitments with our customers. We typically have master supply agreements in place with our customers, but the level of business to be transacted under those agreements is not guaranteed. Instead, we bid on a project basis and typically have supply contracts or purchase orders in place for the project. We are dependent on customers to fulfill the terms associated with these orders and/or contracts. Significant reductions in, or the loss of, sales to any of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on us. OEM divestitures often entail long-term supply agreements between ourselves and the OEM customer, and we are similarly dependent on customers to fulfill their obligations under these contracts. Inherent difficulties in managing capacity utilization and unanticipated changes in customer orders place strains on our planning and may affect our results of operations. Our customers are increasingly dependent on EMS providers for new product introductions and rapid response times to meet changes in volume requirements. Most of our customers typically do not commit to firm production schedules for more than 30 to 90 days in advance and we often experience reduced lead-times in customers' orders. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue can occur in the last month of the quarter and could be subject to change or cancellation that will affect our quarter-to-quarter results. Accordingly, we cannot always forecast the level of customer orders with certainty. This can make it difficult to order appropriate levels of materials and to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In addition, customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, or delay production for a number of reasons. The uncertain economic condition of our customers' end markets, intense competition with respect to some of our customers' products and general order volume volatility have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying or canceling the delivery of some of the products we manufacture for them, and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer, by a group of customers, or by a single customer whose production is material to an individual facility would seriously harm results of that operation in that period. Such order changes could also cause a delay in the repayment to us for inventory expenditures we incurred in preparation for the customer's orders or, in certain circumstances, require us to return the inventory to our suppliers, re-sell the inventory to another customer or continue to hold the inventory. Order cancellations and delays could also lower our asset utilization, resulting in higher levels of unproductive assets and lower margins. In some cases, dramatic changes in circumstances for a customer could also negatively impact the collectability of receivables or carrying value of our inventory for that customer. On other occasions, customers have required rapid and sudden increases in production, which have placed an excessive burden on our manufacturing capacity. Rapid changes in product ramps, the weakening financial condition or deterioration of any single customer's financial condition could prevent us from collecting receivables or realizing inventory on hand. Any of these factors or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The complexity of moving our manufacturing base to lower-cost regions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to significant and severe weakness in technology end markets over the past few years and the highly competitive nature of their businesses, our customers require significant cost reductions in order to maintain sales and improve their financial performance. This environment has resulted in an accelerated movement of our production from higher-cost regions such as North America and Western Europe to lower-cost regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. This accelerated move could have an impact on current and future results by increasing the risks associated with, among other things, transferring production to new regions where skills or experience may be more limited than in higher-cost regions, incurring higher operating expenses during 7 the transition, incurring additional restructuring costs associated with, among other things, the decrease in production levels in higher-cost geographies and the risks of operating in new foreign jurisdictions. Product transfers could also result in our inability to retain our existing business or grow future revenue due to potential execution problems resulting from significant headcount reductions, plant closures and product transfers associated with major restructuring activities. Restrictions on our ability to restructure quickly enough can delay the timing and affect the benefits we expect from our restructuring efforts. We have operations in multiple regions around the world. As a result, we are subject to different regulatory requirements and labor laws governing how quickly we are able to reduce manufacturing capacity and terminate related employees. These requirements are particularly stringent in Europe. Restrictions on our ability to close under-performing facilities will result in higher expenses associated with carrying excess capacity and infrastructure during our restructuring activities. The speed of our restructuring can also be impeded by delays in customers' agreement to the product transfers and volatility in our customers' demand which could prevent us from transferring products to our other facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner. Since the restructuring of our plants will require some of our customers to move their production from one of our facilities to another, customers may use this opportunity to shift their production to competitors' facilities. Our results can be affected by limited availability of components. A significant portion of our costs is for the purchase of electronic components. All of the products we manufacture require one or more components that we order from component suppliers. In many cases, there may be only one supplier of a particular component. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production and thus delay the revenue of all products using that component or can cause price increases in the products and services we provide. In the past, we have secured sufficient allocations of constrained components so that revenue was not materially impacted. In addition, at various times there have been industry-wide shortages of electronic components. Such shortages, or future fluctuations in materials costs, may have a material adverse effect on our business or cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. Any failure to successfully manage our international operations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2005, more than half of our revenue was produced from locations outside of North America. In addition, we purchased material from international suppliers for much of our business, including our North American business. We believe that our future growth depends largely on our ability to increase our business and penetration with global OEMs and, as we describe above, to shift much of our production to lower-cost geographies. This international expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources. International operations are subject to inherent risks, which may adversely affect us, including: •labor unrest and differences in regulations and statutes governing employee relations; •changes in regulatory requirements; •tariffs, import and export duties, value-added taxes and other barriers; •less favorable intellectual property laws; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; •longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting payments; •changes in local tax rates and other potentially adverse tax consequences, including the cost of repatriation of earnings; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including changing import and export regulations, which could erode our profit margins or restrict exports; •adverse changes in trade policies between countries in which we maintain operations; •political instability; •potential restrictions on the transfer of funds; •inflexible employee contracts that restrict our flexibility in responding to business downturns; and •foreign exchange risks. 8 We have either purchased or built manufacturing facilities in numerous countries, including Thailand, Malaysia, China, Singapore, India, the Philippines, Brazil, Mexico, the Czech Republic and Romania, and could be subject to the political, economic and legal risks associated with doing business in these countries. Each of these regions has a history of promoting foreign investment but has experienced economic and political turmoil and fluctuations in the value of its currencies in the recent past. There is a potential risk that economic and political turmoil may result in the reversal of current policies encouraging foreign investment and trade, restrictions on the transfer of funds overseas, employee turnover, labor unrest or other domestic problems that could adversely affect us. We face financial risks due to foreign currency fluctuations. The principal currency in which we conduct our operations is U.S. dollars. However, some of our subsidiaries transact business in foreign currencies, such as Canadian dollars, Thai baht, Euros, Mexican pesos, Czech koruna, Singapore dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgits, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian reai, Philippine pesos, Romanian lei, Indian rupees and British pounds sterling. We often enter into hedging transactions to minimize our exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks. Our current hedging activity is designed to reduce the variability of our foreign currency costs and consists of contracts to purchase or sell these foreign currencies at future dates. These contracts generally extend for periods ranging from three to 15 months. Our hedging transactions may not successfully minimize foreign currency risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our customers may be adversely affected by rapid technological changes which have an adverse impact on our business. Our customers compete in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. These conditions frequently result in short product lifecycles. Our success will depend largely on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. If technologies or standards supported by our customers' products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, an accelerating decline in end-market demand in proprietary systems in favor of open systems with standardized technologies could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our investment in Lean and Six Sigma initiatives may not produce the anticipated cost benefits or achieve the working capital benefits we expect. We are continually investing in training, business process and information technology tools to eliminate waste, increase quality and reduce defects in the manufacturing process. This investment is becoming increasingly critical in our industry, as our customers require our global organization to produce cost savings through the elimination of waste and improved efficiencies. Failure to deliver these cost savings could affect our relationships with our customers, in a manner which would adversely affect our volumes and operating results. The deployment of Lean and Six Sigma initiatives is part of the roadmap we are using to improve our own operating margin. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could impact our margin improvement. Failure of our customers to pay the amounts owed to us in a timely manner may adversely affect our results of operations. We generally provide payment terms ranging from 30 to 60 days. As a result, we generate significant accounts receivable from sales to our customers, historically representing 22% to 39% of current assets. Accounts receivable from sales to customers at December 31, 2005 were $982.6 million (December 31, 2004 — $1,023.3 million; and December 31, 2003 — $771.5 million). At December 31, 2005, one customer represented 12% of our total accounts receivable (December 31, 2004 — two customers represented 25% of total accounts receivable; and December 31, 2003 — one customer represented 18% of total accounts receivable). If any of our customers has insufficient liquidity, we may encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by customers, and may extend our payment terms or restructure the debt, which may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We regularly review our accounts receivable valuations and make adjustments when necessary. Our allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2005 was $21.1 million (December 31, 2004 — $140.1 million; and December 31, 2003 — $50.3 million), which represented 2% of the gross accounts receivable balance (December 31, 2004 — 12%; and December 31, 2003 — 6%). Historically, the credit-related accounts receivable adjustments have not been significant to our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we wrote off accounts receivable of $8.3 million (December 31, 2004 — $2.5 million; and December 31, 2003 — $14.2 million) against the allowance for doubtful accounts in the normal course of business. 9 We may encounter difficulties completing or integrating our acquisitions which could adversely affect our results of operations. Some of our growth will occur through acquisitions. These transactions involve acquisitions of entire companies and acquisitions of selected assets from OEMs. These assets typically consist primarily of equipment, inventory and, in certain cases, facilities or facility leases. OEM asset divestiture transactions also typically involve our entering into new supply agreements with the relevant OEMs. Potential difficulties related to our acquisitions include: •integrating acquired operations, systems and businesses; •maintaining customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and restructuring or terminating unfavorable relationships; •addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; •lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the business acquired; •losing customers who want to transfer their business because of the change in ownership; •losing key employees of acquired operations; and •not achieving anticipated business volumes. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including operational synergies and economies of scale. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely affect our business and operating results. If our products or services are subject to warranty claims, our business reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant costs. In certain of our sales contracts, we provide warranties against defects or deficiencies in our products, services or designs. A successful claim for damages arising as a result of such defects or deficiencies, for which we are not insured or where the damages exceed our insurance coverage, or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied or limited and for which indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct business operations in a number of countries, including countries where tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment or income tax rates are low. We develop our tax position based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions now in effect in the jurisdictions in which we have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations, possibly with retroactive effect. We are subject to audits of historical information by local tax authorities which could result in additional tax expense in future periods relating to prior results. Any such increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on our future earnings and future cash flows. Certain of our subsidiaries provide financing, products and services to, and may from time to time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. In general, related party transactions, and in particular, related party financing transactions, are subjected to close review by tax authorities. Moreover, several jurisdictions in which we operate have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm's length pricing principles, and that contemporaneous documentation must exist to support such pricing. International taxation authorities could challenge that validity of our related party financing and related party transfer pricing policies. Such a challenge generally involves a subjective area of taxation and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If any of these taxation authorities are successful in challenging our financing or transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subjected to interest and penalty charges. In connection with ongoing tax audits in the United States, taxing authorities have asserted that our United States subsidiaries owe significant amounts of tax, interest and penalties arising from related party transactions. We believe we have substantial defenses to the asserted deficiencies and have adequately accrued for any likely potential losses. However, there can be no assurance as to the final resolution of these asserted deficiencies and any resulting proceedings, and if these asserted 10 deficiencies and proceedings are determined adversely to us, the amounts we may be required to pay may be material. The efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected by any delay in delivery from our transportation suppliers, including delays caused by work stoppages and natural disasters. We rely on a variety of common carriers for materials and product transportation and for routing these through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of any important supplier's facility, or at any major port or airport, could result in manufacturing and shipping delays or expediting charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Natural disasters such as tsunamis and earthquakes in the regions where our facilities or our suppliers' facilities are located, could have an impact on our ability to deliver products to our customers. Such events could disrupt supply to us, and from us to our customers, and adversely affect our operations. If we are unable to recruit or retain highly skilled personnel, our business could be adversely affected. The recruitment of personnel in the EMS industry is highly competitive. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled executive, technical and management personnel. We generally do not have employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. To date we have been successful in recruiting and retaining executive, managerial and technical personnel; however, the loss of services of certain of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may be unable to keep pace with technology changes. We continue to evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new manufacturing processes. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to develop and to market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs, to maintain technological leadership and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in production, manufacturing and supply chain processes in cost-effective and timely ways. Our manufacturing and supply chain processes, test development efforts and design capabilities may not be successful. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property or protect the intellectual property of others. We believe that certain of our proprietary intellectual property rights and information provide us with a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we have taken, and intend to continue to take, appropriate steps to protect this proprietary information. These steps include signing non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and other parties, and implementing rigid security measures. Our protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our property or information. There is also a risk that infringement claims may be brought against us, our customers, or our suppliers in the future. If someone does successfully assert an infringement claim, we may be required to spend significant time and money to develop a manufacturing process that does not infringe upon the rights of such other person or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the owner. We may not be successful in such development, or any such licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could adversely affect us even if we are successful in such litigation. We may not be able to increase revenue if the trend of outsourcing by OEMs slows. Future growth in our revenue includes a dependence on new outsourcing opportunities in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from OEMs. Our future growth will be limited to the extent that these opportunities are not available, as a result of OEMs deciding to perform these functions internally or delaying their decision to outsource, or our inability to win new contracts. Political pressure or negative sentiment by our customers' customers to the movement of production from the United States or the European Union to lower-cost geographies could also adversely affect the rate of outsourcing generally, or adversely affect the rate of outsourcing to EMS providers, such as Celestica, who have shifted substantial capacity to these lower-cost geographies. Acts of terrorism and other political and economic developments could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures, conflicts in the Middle East and Asia, strained international relations 11 arising from these conflicts and the related decline in consumer confidence and continued economic weakness, may hinder our ability to do business. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. These events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and customer confidence and spending in particular, which in turn could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The impact of these events on the volatility of the U.S. and world financial markets could increase the volatility of the market price of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers and suppliers. Our compliance with environmental laws could be costly. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions. Our environmental approach and practices have been designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations in a manner consistent with local practice. Future developments and increasingly stringent regulations could require us to incur additional expenditures relating to environmental matters at our facilities. Achieving and maintaining compliance with present, changing and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities or to continue production. This compliance could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Certain environmental laws impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on an owner, occupier or operator of real estate, even if such person or company was unaware of or not responsible for the presence of such substances. In addition, in some countries in which we have operations, any person or company who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at such facility, whether or not the person or company owns or operates the facility. Some of our operating sites have a history of industrial use. Soil and groundwater contamination have occurred at some of our facilities. From time to time we investigate, remediate, and monitor soil and groundwater contamination at certain of our operating sites. In certain instances where soil or groundwater contamination existed prior to our ownership or occupation of a site, landlords or former owners have typically retained some contractual responsibility and liability for the contamination and its remediation. However, failure of such former owners or landlords to perform, as a result of financial inability, contractual limitations or otherwise, could result in our company being required to remediate such contamination. We generally obtained environmental assessments, or reviewed recent assessments initiated by others, for most of the manufacturing facilities that we own or lease at the time we either acquired or leased such facilities. Our assessments may not reveal all environmental liabilities and current assessments were not available for all facilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. In addition, ongoing clean up and containment operations may not be adequate for purposes of future laws. The conditions of our properties could be affected in the future by the condition of the land or operations in the vicinity of the properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks. These developments and others, such as increasingly stringent environmental laws, increasingly strict enforcement of environmental laws by governmental authorities, or claims for damage to property or injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health or safety impact of our operations, may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us. On July 1, 2006, the European Union's Restrictions of Hazardous Substances ("RoHS") will come into effect. As a result, the use of lead and certain other specified substances in electronics products will be prohibited in the European Union. We are in the process of ensuring that our manufacturing processes and our suppliers are RoHS compliant. In the event we are not in compliance with RoHS requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers. In addition, we may incur costs related to inventories containing restricted substances that are not consumed by the RoHS effective dates. There are also European Union requirements with respect to the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. Under the Waste Electrical and Electronics Equipment ("WEEE") directives, compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies, other than products designed and owned by EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations. Failure by our customers to meet the RoHS or WEEE requirements or 12 obligations could impact their businesses and revenue which would adversely impact our financial results. Similar restrictions are being proposed in other jurisdictions, including several states in the United States and the Peoples' Republic of China. Our credit agreement and certain indentures contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct our business. Our outstanding credit agreement, the indenture related to our 77/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and the indenture related to our 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 (2013 Notes) contain financial and operating covenants that limit our management's discretion with respect to certain business matters. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt, create liens or other encumbrances, change the nature of our business, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, and merge or consolidate with other entities. At February 21, 2006, we were in compliance with these covenants. At February 21, 2006, we were limited to approximately $250 million of available debt incurrence under our principal revolving credit facility based on minimum financial ratios. We are exposed to interest rate fluctuations. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal and to maximize yields without significantly increasing risk or materially restricting short-term access to cash. To achieve these objectives, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents in a variety of securities, including government and corporate obligations, certificates of deposit and money market funds. As of December 31, 2005, substantially all of our portfolio was scheduled to mature in less than three months. As a result, a 10% change in interest rates would not have a material effect on the fair value of our investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2005, we had no cash equivalents that were subject to interest rate risk. The fair value of our cash equivalents approximated the carrying value as of December 31, 2005. In June 2004, we issued our 2011 Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million bearing a fixed interest rate of 7.875%. We also entered into agreements which hedge the fair value of our 2011 Notes by swapping the fixed rate of interest for a variable rate based on LIBOR plus a margin, thereby subjecting us to interest rate risk due to fluctuation in the LIBOR rate. The average interest rate on our 2011 Notes for 2005 was 6.4% after reflecting the interest rate swap. A one percentage point increase in the LIBOR rate would increase our interest expense by $5.0 million annually. Shares eligible for public sale could adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our subordinate voting shares in the public market, or the issuance of subordinate voting shares upon the exercise of stock options or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. At February 21, 2006, we had 196,891,375 subordinate voting shares and 29,637,316 multiple voting shares outstanding. All of the subordinate voting shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates (as defined in the U.S. Securities Act) and shares we issued in connection with our acquisition of Manufacturers' Services Limited (MSL) to persons who were affiliates of MSL. Shares held by our affiliates include all of the multiple voting shares and 2,408,784 subordinate voting shares held by Onex Corporation. An affiliate may not sell shares in the United States unless the sale is registered under the U.S. Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. Rule 144 adopted under the U.S. Securities Act permits our affiliates to sell our shares in the United States subject to volume limitations and requirements relating to manner of sale, notice of sale and availability of current public information with respect to us. Similar resale provisions apply to the subordinate voting shares issued to MSL affiliates in connection with our acquisition of MSL. In addition, as of February 21, 2006, there were approximately 31,200,000 subordinate voting shares reserved for issuance under our employee share purchase and option plans and for director compensation, including outstanding options to purchase approximately 15,800,000 subordinate voting shares. Moreover, we may, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, issue an unlimited number of additional subordinate voting shares without further shareholder approval (subject to any required stock exchange approvals). As a result, a substantial number of our subordinate voting shares will be eligible for sale in the public market at various times in the future. The issuances and/or sale of such shares would dilute the holdings of our shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. 13 The interest of our controlling shareholder may conflict with the interest of the remaining holders of our subordinate voting shares. Onex owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding multiple voting shares and 1.2% of the outstanding subordinate voting shares. The number of shares owned by Onex, together with those shares Onex has the right to vote, represents 79.0% of the voting interest in Celestica and less than 1% of the voting interest in our outstanding subordinate voting shares. Accordingly, Onex exercises a controlling influence over our business and affairs and has the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders where our shares vote together as a single class. Onex has the power to elect our directors and to approve significant corporate transactions such as certain amendments to our articles of incorporation, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and plans of arrangement in certain circumstances. Onex's voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of our company that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. Under our revolving credit facilities, it is an event of default entitling our lenders to demand repayment if Onex ceases to control Celestica unless the shares of Celestica become widely held ("widely held" meaning that no one person owns more than 20% of the votes). Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Onex and one of our directors, owns shares with a majority of the voting rights of the shares of Onex. Mr. Schwartz, therefore, effectively controls our affairs. The interests of Onex and Mr. Schwartz may differ from the interests of the remaining holders of subordinate voting shares. For additional information about our principal shareholders, see Item 7(A), "Major Shareholders." Onex has, from time to time, issued debentures exchangeable and redeemable under certain circumstances for our subordinate voting shares, entered into forward equity agreements with respect to subordinate voting shares, sold shares (after exchanging multiple voting shares for subordinate voting shares), or redeemed these debentures through the delivery of subordinate voting shares and could do so in the future. These sales could impact our share price, have consequences on our outstanding debt, and change our ownership structure. Potential unenforceability of civil liabilities and judgments. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. A significant number of our directors, controlling persons and officers are residents of Canada. Also, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service within the United States upon those directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States or to realize in the United States upon a judgment of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. 