D. Risk Factors Any of the following risk factors, or any combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. We are dependent on a limited number of customers and end markets. We are also dependent on our customers' ability to compete and succeed in the marketplace with the services we provide and the products we manufacture. Our customers include original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and service providers. We depend upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. During 2015, three customers (2014 — three customers; 2013 — two customers) individually represented more than 10% of our total revenue, and our top 10 customers represented 67% (each of 2014 and 2013 — 65%) of our total revenue. We are also dependent upon revenue from our traditional end markets (Communications, Servers and Storage), which represented 68% of our consolidated revenue in 2015 (2014 — 67%; 2013 — 69%). These end markets are characterized by rapid shifts in technology, commoditization of certain products, the emergence of new business models and shifting patterns of demand, such as cloud-based environments and the proliferation of software-defined storage, and increased competition. The mix of our customers and the types of products or services we provide to these customers will have an impact on our operating results from period-to-period. To reduce our reliance on any one customer or end market, we continue to target new customers and services, including expanding business in our Diversified end market (which is comprised of aerospace and defense, industrial, healthcare, energy, and semiconductor equipment), and exploring acquisition opportunities. We are also focused on expanding revenue in our higher value-added services, such as design and development, engineering, supply chain management and after-market services, and have de-emphasized our lower margin business, including our consumer portfolio. Although revenue from our diversified end market has increased in recent years, our operating results in this end market have been negatively impacted by the costs associated with ramping new business. In particular, our operating results have been adversely affected by challenges related to our semiconductor and solar businesses, which have incurred and may continue to incur losses in future periods (and are expected to continue with respect to our solar business through the first quarter of 2016). As part of our solar expansion, we have invested in infrastructure and equipment, and have entered into an agreement with a solar cell supplier, to which we have made significant cash advances. Certain countries provide subsidies and economic incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote greater use of solar power, because the cost of generating electricity from solar power generally exceeds the costs of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar renewable energy sources. Certain of these government subsidies and economic incentives have been reduced or eliminated in some countries, and may continue to be reduced in these or other countries or be eliminated altogether. Furthermore, a decrease in the price of other energy products could reduce demand for solar energy and may reduce the urgency of the market to invest in alternative energy. A significant reduction in the demand for solar energy, or the scope or discontinuation of government incentive programs, could cause demand for our solar products and revenues to decline. As a result, there can be no assurance that our solar expansion will be successful. 6 Notwithstanding these expansion efforts, we are still dependent on our traditional end markets for a significant portion of our revenue, which are subject to the various factors described above and continue to experience slower growth rates and increased pricing pressures. Failure to secure business from existing or new customers in our traditional or other end markets would adversely impact our operating results. There can be no assurance that our efforts to secure new customers and services in our traditional and new markets, including the impact of acquisitions, will succeed in reducing our customer concentration. Acquisitions are also subject to integration risk, and revenues and margins could be lower than we anticipate. Our operating results are highly dependent upon our customers' ability to compete and succeed in the marketplace with the products we manufacture. Certain of our customers have experienced, and may in the future experience, severe revenue erosion, pricing and margin pressures, and excess inventories that, in turn, have adversely affected (and in the future may adversely affect) our operating results. There can be no assurance that present or future customers will not terminate their manufacturing or service arrangements with us, or that they will not significantly change, reduce or delay the volume of manufacturing or other services they order from us, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Customers may also shift business to our competitors, in-source programs, or adjust the concentration of their supplier base. A decline in revenue from any significant customer or the loss of any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure the replacement of completed, delayed, cancelled or reduced orders with new business. In addition, the ramping of new programs may take from several months to more than a year before production starts and may require significant up-front investments and increased working capital requirements. During this start-up period, these programs may generate losses or may not achieve the expected financial performance due to production ramp inefficiencies, lower than expected volume, or delays in ramping to volume. Our customers may significantly change these programs, or even cancel them altogether, due to changes in end-market demand or changes in the actual or anticipated success of their products in the marketplace. See "Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from period to period". All of the foregoing may adversely affect our margins, cash flow, and our ability to grow our revenue, and may increase the variability of our operating results from period to period. We operate in an industry comprised of numerous competitors and aggressive pricing dynamics. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors include Benchmark Electronics, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Plexus Corp., and Sanmina Corporation, as well as smaller EMS companies that often have a regional, product, service or industry-specific focus, and original design manufacturers ("ODMs"). In recent years, we have expanded our joint design and manufacturing ("JDM") offering, which encompasses advanced technology design solutions that customers can tailor to their specific platform applications. We may face increased competition from ODMs, who also specialize in providing internally designed products and manufacturing services, as well as component and sub-system suppliers, distributors and/or systems integrators. We also face indirect competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and prospective customers, as these companies may choose to manufacture products internally rather than outsource to EMS providers, or they may choose to insource previously outsourced business, particularly where internal excess capacity exists. The competitive environment in our industry is very intense and aggressive pricing is a common business dynamic. Some of our competitors have greater scale and a broader range of services than we offer. While we continue to increase our capacity in lower-cost regions to reduce our costs, these regions may not provide the same operational benefits that they have in the past due to rising costs and a continued aggressive pricing environment. Additionally, our current or potential competitors may: increase or shift their presence in new lower-cost regions to try to offset continuous competitive pressure and increasing labor costs or to secure new business; develop or acquire services comparable or superior to those we develop; combine or merge to form larger competitors; or adapt more quickly than we may to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Some of our competitors have increased their vertical capabilities by manufacturing modules or components used in the products they assemble, such as metal or plastic parts and enclosures, backplanes, circuit boards, cabling and related products. This expanded capability may provide them 7 with a competitive advantage and greater cost savings and may lead to more aggressive pricing for electronics manufacturing services. Competition may cause pricing pressures, reduced profits or a loss of market share (for example, from program losses or customer disengagements). We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. We continue to operate in an uncertain global economic environment. The global economy continues to be uncertain and may continue to negatively impact end market demand and our operations. Some key indicators of sustainable economic growth remain under pressure. Ongoing concerns over the sustainability of the economic recovery in the US, credit and sovereign debt concerns in certain European countries, the low price of crude oil across the globe and related implications for potential global deflation, as well as concerns over slowed economic growth in China and other international markets, have contributed to economic uncertainty, disruptions in the financial credit markets, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. We have invested significant resources in China and other Asian countries, and may fail to realize the anticipated benefits associated with such investments, which would adversely impact our financial results. It is uncertain how long these effects will last, or whether economic and financial trends will worsen or improve. In addition, uncertain global economies and currencies have adversely impacted, and may continue to unpredictably impact, our operating results, including as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. See "We are exposed to translation and transaction risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; hedging instruments may not be effective in mitigating such risks". Financial market instability may also result in a lower return on our financial investments, and a lower value on some of our assets. Alternately, inflation may lead to higher interest rates, which would increase our borrowing costs and the costs of raising capital. Uncertainty surrounding the current global economic and geo-political outlook continues to limit the overall demand visibility of our end markets and may impact future demand for some of the products we manufacture or services we provide. This environment may also impact the financial condition of our customers or suppliers, as well as the number and pace of customer consolidation. A deterioration in the economic environment may accelerate the effect of the various risk factors described in this Annual Report and could result in other unforeseen events that may adversely impact our business and financial condition. Our customers may be negatively affected by rapid technological changes, shifts in business strategy and/or the emergence of new business models. Many of our customers compete in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, continuous improvements in products and services, commoditization of certain products, changes in preferences by end customers or other changes in demand, and the emergence of competitors with new business models that deemphasize the traditional OEM distribution channels. These conditions frequently result in shorter product lifecycles and may lead to shifts in our customers' business strategy. Our success will depend on the success achieved by our customers in developing, marketing and selling their products. If technologies or standards supported by our customers' products and services or their business models become obsolete, fail to gain widespread acceptance or are cancelled, our business could be adversely affected. For example, declines in end-market demand for customer-specific proprietary systems in favor of open systems with standardized technologies could have an adverse impact on our business. Other examples include the shift from traditional network infrastructures to highly virtualized and cloud-based environments, the prevalence of solid state memory as a replacement for hard disk drives, as well as the proliferation of software-defined networks and software-defined storage, any or all of which could adversely impact our business. The highly competitive nature of our customers' products and services could also drive further consolidation among OEMs, and result in product line consolidation that could adversely impact our customer relationships and our revenue. For example, several major customers in our communications and storage end markets have announced mergers or partnerships during 2015. Including as a result of the foregoing, certain of our customers have experienced, and may in the future experience, severe revenue erosion, pricing and margin pressures, and excess inventories that, in turn, have adversely affected (and in the future may adversely affect) our operating results. 8 Our operations could be adversely affected by global or local events outside our control, including natural disasters, epidemics, extreme weather conditions, political instability, terrorism, labor or social unrest, criminal activity and other risks present in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our operations and those of our customers, component suppliers and/or our logistics partners may be disrupted by global or local events outside our control, including: natural disasters and related disruptions; political instability; terrorism; armed conflict; labor or social unrest; criminal activity; disease or illness, epidemics and health advisories, including those related to SARS, avian flu, and Ebola, that affect local, national or international economies; unusually adverse weather conditions; and other risks present in the jurisdictions in which we, our customers, our suppliers and/or our logistics partners operate. Such events could materially adversely affect our results of operations and increase our costs. We carry insurance to cover damage to our sites and interruptions to our operations, including those that may occur as a result of natural disasters, such as flooding and earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other events. However, our insurance policies are subject to deductibles, coverage limitations and exclusions, and may not provide adequate (or any) coverage should such events occur. Increased international political instability, including unsettled political conditions currently existing in the United States and Europe, instability in parts of the Middle East, as well as the ongoing refugee crisis, anti-immigrant activities, social unrest and fears of terrorism, enhanced national security measures, armed conflicts, security issues at the U.S./Mexico border related to illegal immigration or criminal activities associated with illegal drug activities, labor or social unrest, strained international relations and the related decline in consumer confidence arising from these and other factors may materially hinder our ability to conduct business, or may reduce demand for our products or services. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and could adversely affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing sites and finished products to customers. We rely on a variety of common carriers for the transportation of materials and products and for their ability to route these materials and products through various international ports and other transportation hubs. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of any important supplier's site or operations, or at any major port or airport, or the inability to access any such site for any reason, could result in manufacturing and shipping delays or expediting charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Such events have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on the U.S. and global economy in general, and on consumer confidence and spending, which may adversely affect our revenue and financial results. Such events could increase the volatility of the market price of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers and suppliers. We may encounter difficulties expanding or consolidating our operations or introducing new competencies or new offerings, which could adversely affect our operating results. As we expand our business, open new sites, enter into new markets, products and technologies, invest in research, design and development, acquire new businesses or capabilities, transfer business from one location to another location within our network, consolidate certain operations, and/or introduce new business models or programs, we may encounter difficulties that result in higher than expected costs associated with such activities and/or customer dissatisfaction with our performance. Potential difficulties related to our growth and/or operations include our ability to: manage growth effectively, including having trained personnel to manage expanded operations, new customers, and/or new products or services; maintain existing customer, supplier, employee and other favorable business relationships during periods of transition or consolidation; anticipate disruptions in our operations that may impact our ability to deliver to customers on time, to produce quality products and to ensure overall customer satisfaction; and respond rapidly to changes in customer demand or volumes, including as a result of program completions or losses, or customer disengagements. We may also encounter difficulties in ramping and executing new programs from existing or new customers. We may require significant investments to support these new programs, including increased working capital requirements, and may generate lower margins or losses during and/or following the ramp period. There can be no assurance that our increased investments will benefit us or result in business growth. As we pursue 9 opportunities in new markets or technologies, we may encounter challenges due to our limited knowledge or experience. In addition, the success of new business models or programs depends on a number of factors including: understanding the new business or markets, including appropriate staffing needs; timely and successful development of products or services (by us and/or our customer); market acceptance; the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated demand; the development or acquisition of appropriate intellectual property and capital investments, to the extent required; the availability of materials in adequate quantities and at appropriate costs to meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new offerings may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of growth in new markets or technologies, which could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, we completed acquisitions in 2011 and in 2012 in order to expand our diversified end market offerings to include semiconductor capital equipment. The semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid shifts in product demand and technological changes. Our semiconductor business has been negatively impacted by volatility in customer demand, the cost of our investments, operational inefficiencies, commercial challenges associated with a particular customer, and the costs, terms, timing and challenges of ramping new sites and programs. The negative impact of these factors resulted in losses in 2014 as well as a reduction in the long-term cash-flow projections used for our 2014 impairment assessment of our semiconductor business, and in the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $40.8 million against the goodwill of this business. Although we continue to make progress in addressing the inefficiencies and challenges which have affected our semiconductor business, the negative factors above, combined with demand volatility in this market, may continue to adversely impact the revenue and profitability of this business, as well as our financial position and cash flows. In addition, to support recent new program wins in our solar business and anticipated growth in global demand for solar energy, we made investments in 2015 in our solar business to establish competitive solar energy manufacturing capabilities in Asia, including newly leased equipment, and making cash advances to an Asia-based solar cell supplier ("Solar Supplier") to help secure our solar cell supply. We also transitioned a portion of our solar operations from North America to Asia. However, the expansion of our solar business has been slower than anticipated, and we incurred higher than expected costs in this business in 2015, primarily due to ramping delays and operational inefficiencies at our new solar site in Asia, as well as challenges experienced by some of our suppliers, including the Solar Supplier, in meeting our ramp requirements. These negative factors impacted our output in 2015 and adversely affected the operating results of our solar business for the year. See Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview of business environment" for further discussion of the factors which have negatively impacted our semiconductor and solar businesses. Revenue from our diversified end market represented 29% of total revenue in 2015, up from 25% of total revenue in 2013. Continued growth in our diversified end market is a key focus area for us. As with any new business expansion, however, our operating results will be negatively impacted by the costs of ramping activities. If we encounter difficulties, such as ramping delays or operational inefficiencies, we may incur higher than expected costs associated with such ramping activities. Although revenue from our diversified end market has increased in recent years, we have encountered challenges in connection with the expansion of our semiconductor and solar businesses (within our diversified end market), and have incurred related losses, which may continue in the future (and are expected to continue with respect to our solar business through the first quarter of 2016). In addition, in recent years, although we have expanded our JDM offering (to our storage customers in particular), we may face increased competition with respect to this offering in the future, from ODMs and other companies providing similar services. There can be no assurance that our expansion into new markets or new business will be successful, or that we will achieve the anticipated benefits. Consolidation may adversely affect our business relationships or the volume of business we conduct with our customers. Our customers, competitors and suppliers may be subject to consolidation. Increasing consolidation in industries that utilize our services may occur as companies combine to achieve economies of scale and other synergies, which could result in an increase in excess manufacturing capacity as companies seek to divest manufacturing operations or eliminate product lines (several major customers in our communications and 10 storage end markets have announced mergers or partnerships during 2015). Excess manufacturing capacity may increase pricing and competitive pressures in our industry as a whole and for us in particular. Consolidation could also result in an increasing number of very large companies offering products in multiple industries. The significant purchasing power and market power of these large companies could increase pricing and competitive pressures for us. If one of our customers is acquired by another company that does not rely on us to provide services, has its own production services, or relies on another provider of similar services, we may lose that customer's business. Such consolidation may reduce the number of customers from which we generate a significant percentage of our revenue, and further expose us to increased risks relating to our dependence on a small number of customers. Any of the foregoing results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. Consolidation among our competitors may create a competitive advantage over us, which may also result in a loss of business and revenue if customers shift their production. Such consolidation may also result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our profit margins. Changes in OEM strategies, including the divestiture or exit from certain of their businesses, may also result in a loss of business for us. We may encounter challenges with respect to our acquisitions and strategic transactions which could adversely affect our operating results. We intend to expand our presence in new end markets and expand our capabilities in existing markets and technologies, some of which may occur through acquisitions. These transactions may involve acquisitions of entire companies or acquisitions of selected assets. We have also completed numerous strategic transactions with our customers, under which we have acquired inventory, equipment and other assets from certain customers; leased or acquired a manufacturing site of such customers; and simultaneously entered into multi-year manufacturing and supply agreements for the production of their products. Potential challenges related to these acquisitions and transactions include: integrating acquired operations, systems and businesses; meeting customers' expectations as to volume, product quality and timeliness; retaining customer, supplier, employee or other business relationships of acquired operations; addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; limited experience with new technologies and markets; failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; failure to achieve anticipated business volumes or operating margins; valuation methodologies not accurately capturing the value of the acquired business; the effects of diverting management's attention from day-to-day operations to matters involving the integration of acquired businesses; incurring potentially substantial transaction costs associated with these transactions; increased burdens on our staff and on our administrative, internal control and operating systems, which may hinder our legal and regulatory compliance activities; overpayment for an acquisition; and potential impairments resulting from post-acquisition deterioration in, or reduced benefit from, an acquired business. While we often obtain indemnification rights from the sellers of acquired businesses, such rights may be difficult to enforce, the losses may exceed any dedicated escrow funds, and the indemnitors may not have the ability to financially support the indemnity. Any of these factors may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including additional revenue, operational synergies and economies of scale. Any delay or failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions may adversely affect our business and operating results and may require us to write-down the carrying value of any related goodwill and intangible assets in periods subsequent to the acquisitions. For example, in 2014, we recorded a $40.8 million impairment to the goodwill of our semiconductor business (which arose from our 2011 acquisition of the semiconductor equipment contract manufacturing operations of Brooks Automation Inc. and our 2012 acquisition of D&H Manufacturing Company (D&H)). In addition, there is no assurance that we will find suitable acquisition targets, that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that we will be able to fund any such acquisitions with existing cash resources. Acquisitions may also involve businesses we are not familiar with, and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced or anticipated at the time of acquisition. If we are unable to recruit or retain highly skilled personnel, or if we do not successfully manage the transitions associated with our new CEO, our business could be adversely affected. The recruitment of personnel in the EMS industry is highly competitive. We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled executive, technical and management personnel. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with the majority of our employees. The 11 loss of the services of certain executive, management and technical employees, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, in August 2015, Robert A. Mionis was appointed as our new CEO and a member of our board of directors. There can be no guarantee that the transition to a new CEO will be smooth or successful. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause uncertainty or a disruption to our business or may increase the likelihood of turnover in key officers and employees. Our new CEO could make organizational changes, including changes to our management team and may make future changes to our structure. The presence of a new CEO may impact our relationships with customers, vendors, and employees, potentially resulting in loss of business, loss of vendor relationships, and the loss of key employees or declines in the productivity of existing employees. The uncertainties associated with senior management transitions could lead to concerns from current and potential third parties with whom we do business, any of which could hurt our business prospects. Our future success may be dependent upon the continued services of our other executive officers and senior personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain their services. Turnover in key leadership positions within the Company, or any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees, may adversely impact our ability to manage the Company efficiently and effectively, could be disruptive and distracting to management and may lead to additional departures of existing personnel, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial results and internal controls over financial reporting. We are dependent on third parties to supply equipment and materials, and our results can be negatively affected by the availability and cost of components. The purchase of equipment, materials and electronic components represents a significant portion of our costs. We rely on third parties to provide such items. If we are unable to find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a program could be impaired. A delay or interruption in supply from a component supplier, especially for single-sourced components, could have a significant impact on our operations and on our customers, if we are unable to deliver finished products in a timely manner. If the amount we are required to pay for equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a fixed price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a supplier or manufacturer fails to provide supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these items from other third parties on a delayed basis or on less favorable terms, which could impact our profitability. Additionally, quality or reliability issues at any of our component providers, or financial difficulties that affect their production and ability to supply us with components, could halt or delay production of a customer's product, or result in claims against us for failure to meet required customer specifications, which could materially adversely impact our operating results. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production of, and revenue from, products using that component. Shortages also may result in our carrying higher levels of inventory and extended lead-times, or result in increased component prices, which may require price increases in the products and services that we provide. Any increase in our costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers would negatively impact our margins and operating results. At various times in our industry's history, there have been industry-wide shortages of electronic components. Shortages, or fluctuations in the cost of components, may have a material adverse effect on our business or cause our operating results to fluctuate from period-to-period. Changes in forecasted volumes or in our customers' requirements can negatively affect our ability to obtain components and adversely impact our operating results. In addition, a failure by a supplier or manufacturer to comply with applicable laws, regulations or customer requirements could negatively impact our business, and for government customers, could result in fines, penalties, suspension or even debarment being imposed on us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Our results may be negatively affected by rising labor costs. There is some uncertainty with respect to the pace of rising labor costs in various regions in which we operate. Any increase in labor costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers would negatively impact our margins and operating results. Inherent challenges in managing unanticipated changes in customer demand may impact our planning, supply chain execution and manufacturing, and may adversely affect our operating performance and results. Our customers use EMS providers for new product introductions and expect rapid response times to meet changes in volume requirements. Although we generally enter into master supply agreements with our customers, the level of business to be transacted under those agreements is not guaranteed. Instead, we bid on a program-by-program basis and typically receive customer purchase orders for specific quantities and timing of products. Most of our customers typically do not commit to production schedules for more than 30 days to 90 days in advance and we often experience volatility in customer orders. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue can occur in the last month of the quarter, and purchase orders may be subject to change or cancellation, all of which affect our operating results when they occur. Accordingly, our forecasts of customer orders may be inaccurate, and may make it difficult to order appropriate levels of materials, schedule production, and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity and resources. Our customers may change their forecasts, production quantities or product type requirements, or may accelerate, delay or cancel production quantities for various reasons. When customers change production volumes or request different products to be manufactured from those in their original forecast, the unavailability of components and materials for such changes could also adversely impact our revenue and working capital performance. Further, to guarantee continuity of supply for many of our customers, we are required to manufacture and warehouse specified quantities of finished goods. The uncertainty of demand in our customers' end markets, intense competition in our customers' industries and general order volume volatility may result in customers delaying or canceling the delivery of products we manufacture for them or placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Order cancellations, or changes or delays in production, may result in higher than expected levels of inventory, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our operating results and working capital performance. We may not be able to return or re-sell this inventory, or we may be required to hold the inventory for a period of time, any of which may result in our having to record additional reserves for the inventory if it becomes excess or obsolete. Order cancellations and delays could lower our asset utilization, resulting in higher levels of unproductive assets, lower inventory turns, and lower margins. Volatility in commodity prices may negatively impact our operating results. We rely on various energy sources in our production and transportation activities. The price of commodities can be volatile. Increases in prices for energy and other commodities could result in higher raw material and component costs and transportation costs. Any increase in our costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers would negatively impact our margins and operating results. We may experience increased financial and reputational risk due to non-performance by counterparties. A failure by a counterparty, which includes customers, suppliers, financial institutions and other third parties with which we conduct business, to fulfill its contractual obligations may result in a financial loss to us, and may adversely affect our reputation. We provide payment terms to most of our customers generally ranging from 30 days to 90 days (although from time to time we provide significantly shorter payment terms). Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2015 was $681.0 million, with two customers individually representing more than 10% of our total accounts receivable. If any of our customers have insufficient liquidity, we could encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by such customers, or we may extend our payment terms, which could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Any extensions or delays in payments owed to us could adversely impact our short-term cash flows. We also may not be able to recover all of the amounts owed to us by a customer, including amounts to cover unused inventory or capital investments we acquired to support that customer's business. During 2015, we entered into an agreement with 13 the Solar Supplier, which included a commitment by us to provide it with specified cash advances. We advanced $29.5 million during 2015 to the Solar Supplier, which it used to help finance the expansion of its manufacturing operations into Malaysia. Our solar business is dependent on the Solar Supplier to provide the majority of our solar cell requirements. Such advances are scheduled to be repaid through quarterly installments, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2015 and are to continue through the end of 2017. If a key supplier experiences financial difficulties, this may affect its ability to supply us with materials or components (and in addition, in the case of the Solar Supplier, to repay the cash advances), which could halt or delay the production of a customer's product, and have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial results and customer relationships. We are exposed to translation and transaction risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; hedging instruments may not be effective in mitigating such risks. Global currency markets can be volatile. Although we conduct the majority of our business in U.S. dollars (our functional currency), our global operations subject us to translation and transaction risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and/or financial condition. A significant portion of our operational costs (including payroll, pensions, site costs, costs of locally sourced supplies and inventory, and income taxes) are denominated in various currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of translated U.S. dollars required for costs incurred in other currencies or significantly decrease the U.S. dollars received from non-U.S. dollar revenues. Our significant non-U.S. currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, Thai baht, Malaysian ringgit, Mexican peso, British pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Euro, Romanian leu and Singapore dollar. Although our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, currency risk on our income tax expense arises as we are generally required to file our tax returns in the local currency for each particular country in which we have operations. A weakening of the local currency against the U.S. dollar could have a negative impact on our income taxes payable (related to increased local-currency taxable profits) and on our deferred tax costs (primarily related to the revaluation of non-monetary foreign assets from historical average exchange rates to the period-end exchange rates). See note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 18. While our hedging programs are designed to mitigate currency risk vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar, we remain subject to taxable foreign exchange impacts in our translated local currency financial results relevant for tax reporting purposes. As part of our risk management program, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to lock in the exchange rates for future foreign currency transactions, which is intended to reduce the variability of our operating costs and future cash flows denominated in local currencies. While these contracts are intended to reduce the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, our hedging strategy does not mitigate the longer-term impacts of changes to foreign exchange rates. We do not enter into these contracts for trading purposes or speculation, and our management believes all such contracts are entered into as hedges of underlying transactions. Nonetheless, these instruments involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. If our hedging program is not successful, or if we change our hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. Our financial results have been adversely impacted by negative foreign currency translation effects in the past, and such adverse effects, some of which may be substantial, are likely to recur in the future. Our ability to successfully manage unexpected changes or risks inherent in our global operations and supply chain may adversely impact our financial performance. We have sites in the following countries: Canada, the United States, China, Ireland, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania, Singapore, Spain and Thailand. During 2015, approximately 80% of our revenue was produced at locations outside of North America. We also purchase the majority of our components and materials from international suppliers. 14 Global operations are subject to inherent risks which may adversely affect us, including: •changes in local tax rates and tax incentives and the adverse tax consequences of repatriating earnings; •labor unrest and differences in regulations and statutes governing employee relations; •cultural differences and/or differences in local business customs; •changes in regulatory requirements; •inflation and rising costs; •changes in international political relations; •difficulty in staffing (including skilled labor availability and cost) and managing foreign operations; •challenges in building and maintaining infrastructure to support operations; •compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including import and export tariffs and regulations; •adverse changes in trade policies between countries in which we maintain operations; •changes in logistics costs; •changes in the availability, lead time, and cost of components and materials; •weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights and/or greater difficulty enforcing such rights; •global economic, political and social instability; •potential restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other restrictive actions by foreign governments; •the effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics; and •global currency fluctuations. Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our components or materials, slow or stop our production, and/or increase our costs. Compliance with trade and foreign tax laws may increase our costs and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. In addition, the introduction or expansion of certain social programs in foreign jurisdictions would likely increase our costs, and certain supplier's costs, of doing business. We may not keep pace with rapidly evolving technology. We continue to evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new manufacturing processes. We believe our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continually develop and deliver electronic and complex mechanical manufacturing services that meet our customers' evolving needs. This may involve investing in new processes, capabilities or equipment to support new technologies used in our customers' current or future products, and to support their supply chain processes. Additionally, as we expand our service offerings, such as our JDM offering, or pursue business in new markets, where our experience may be limited, we may be less effective in adapting to technological change. Our manufacturing and supply chain processes, test development efforts and design capabilities may not be successful due to rapid technological shifts in any of these areas. Various industry-specific standards, qualifications and certifications are required to produce certain types of products for our customers. Failure to obtain or maintain those certifications may adversely affect our ability to maintain existing levels of business or win new business. We may not adequately protect our intellectual property or the intellectual property of others. We believe that certain of our proprietary intellectual property rights and information provide us with a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we take steps to protect this proprietary information, including entering into non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees and other parties, and by implementing security measures. However, our protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent or detect the misappropriation or unauthorized use or disclosure of our property or information. 15 There is also a risk that claims of intellectual property infringement could be brought against us, our customers and/or our suppliers. If such claims are successful, we may be required to spend significant time and money to develop processes that do not infringe upon the rights of another person or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the owner. We may not be successful in such development, or any such licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could adversely affect us even if we are successful in the litigation. As we expand our JDM and other service offerings and pursue business in new end markets, we may be less effective in anticipating or mitigating the intellectual property risks related to new manufacturing, design and other services, which could be significant. There may be problems with the products we design or manufacture that could result in liability/warranty claims against us, which may reduce demand for our services, damage our reputation, and/or cause us to incur significant costs. In most of our sales contracts, we provide warranties against defects or deficiencies in our products, services, or designs. The extent of the warranties varies by customer, and warranties generally range from one to three years (however, the warranty period for our JDM designs and solar panel products are generally longer). We generally design and manufacture products to our customers' specifications, many of which are highly complex, and include products for industries, such as healthcare, aerospace and defense, that tend to have higher risk profiles. The customized design solutions that form a part of our JDM offering also subject us to the risk of liability claims if defects are discovered or alleged. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, problems may occur, or may be alleged, in or resulting from the design and/or manufacturing of these products. Whether or not we are responsible, problems in the products we design and/or manufacture, or in products which include components we manufacture, whether real or alleged, whether caused by faulty customer specifications, the design or manufacturing processes or a component defect, may result in increased costs to us, as well as delayed shipments to customers, and/or reduced or canceled customer orders. These potential claims may include damages for the recall of a product and/or injury to person or property, including consequential and/or punitive damages. Even if customers or third parties, such as component suppliers, are responsible for defects, they may not, or may not be able to, assume responsibility for any such costs or required payments to us. While we seek to insure against many of these risks, insurance coverage may be inadequate, not cost effective or unavailable, either in general or for particular types of products or issues. As we expand our service offerings (for example, our solar panel manufacturing and JDM offerings) and pursue business in new end markets, our warranty obligations may increase and we may not be successful in pricing our products to appropriately cover our warranty costs. A successful claim for damages arising from defects or deficiencies for which we are not adequately insured, and for which indemnification from a third party is not timely (or otherwise) available, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and/or our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to the risk of increasing income taxes, tax audits, and the challenges of successfully defending our tax positions, and obtaining, renewing or meeting the conditions of tax incentives and credits, any of which may adversely affect our financial performance. We conduct business operations in a number of countries, including countries where tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment or where income tax rates are low. Our income tax expense could increase significantly if certain tax incentives from which we benefit are retracted. A retraction could occur if we fail to satisfy the conditions on which these tax incentives are based, or if they are not renewed or replaced upon expiration. Our income tax expense could also increase if tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased, or due to changes in legislation or administrative practices. Changes in our outlook in any particular country could impact our ability to meet the required conditions. See Item 5 "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Income taxes" for a discussion of recently expired tax incentives. 16 We develop our tax filing positions based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions currently in effect in the jurisdictions in which we have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations, possibly with retroactive effect. Certain of our subsidiaries provide financing or products and services to, and may from time-to-time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. Moreover, several jurisdictions in which we operate have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm's-length pricing principles, and that contemporaneous documentation must exist to support such pricing. We are subject to tax audits globally by various tax authorities pertaining to historical information, which could result in additional tax expense in future periods relating to prior results. Any such increase in our income tax expense and related interest and/or penalties could have a significant adverse impact on our future earnings and future cash flows. See Item 5 "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Income taxes". The successful pursuit of the assertions made by any taxing authority related to pending or newly-instituted tax audits could result in our owing significant amounts of tax, interest, and possibly penalties. We believe we have substantial defenses to the asserted positions and have adequately accrued for any probable potential adverse tax impact. However, there can be no assurance as to the final resolution of these claims and any resulting proceedings. If these claims and any ensuing proceedings are determined adversely to us, the amounts we may be required to pay could be material, and could be in excess of amounts currently accrued. As at December 31, 2015, a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents was held by subsidiaries outside of Canada. Although substantially all of the cash and cash equivalents held outside of Canada are permitted to be repatriated, a significant portion may be subject to withholding taxes under current tax laws. We have not recognized deferred tax liabilities for cash and cash equivalents held by certain subsidiaries related to unremitted earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of Canada and that we do not intend to repatriate in the foreseeable future (approximately $405 million and $310 million of cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively). We have incurred significant restructuring charges, impairment charges and operating losses, and may experience such charges and losses in future periods. We have in the past, and again in recent periods, recorded charges relating to restructuring actions and the impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, and have incurred operating losses for certain of our businesses. These amounts have varied from period to period. We have undertaken numerous initiatives to restructure and reduce our capacity and cost structures in response to changes in the EMS industry and in end-market demand, with the intention of improving utilization and reducing our overall cost structure. See note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 18. We may not be able to retain or expand existing business due to execution issues relating to significant headcount reductions, plant closures or product transfers resulting from any restructuring actions we take. We may also incur higher operating expenses during periods of transition. During 2015, we implemented certain restructuring actions as a result of a review of our overall operational efficiency and cost structure, including the consolidation of two of our semiconductor sites into a single location, and the resultant write down of certain equipment and reduction in the related workforce, as well as other headcount reductions implemented in various geographies. In connection therewith, we recorded restructuring charges of $23.9 million in 2015. Previous restructuring actions resulted in restructuring charges of $28.0 million in 2013. We perform ongoing evaluations of our operations, and expect to implement further restructuring actions in 2016. Any failure to successfully execute or realize the expected benefits from these initiatives, including any delay in implementing these initiatives, may have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment on an ongoing basis, and we may incur impairment charges, which could be substantial and could adversely affect our financial results. Impairment assessments inherently involve judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and 17 changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Factors that might reduce the recoverable amount of goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment below their respective carrying values include declines in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in any of our businesses. We recorded non-cash impairment charges of $12.2 million in 2015 (against the property, plant and equipment of two of our CGUs) and $40.8 million in 2014 (against the goodwill of our semiconductor business). See note 15(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 18. In 2014, our semiconductor business incurred higher than expected operating losses primarily as a result of lower than anticipated customer demand for the year, challenges associated with the ramping of new sites and programs, and operational inefficiencies and commercial challenges associated with a particular customer, resulting in the impairment described above. Although operating results for the semiconductor business improved in 2015 (and no further semiconductor CGU impairments were required in 2015), the negative factors described above, combined with demand volatility in this market, may result in additional operating losses and/or further impairments for this business in future periods. See Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview of business environment". Our operations and our customer relationships may be adversely affected by disruptions to our information technology ("IT") systems, including disruptions from cybersecurity breaches of our IT infrastructure. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including those of third-party service providers, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our IT infrastructure for a variety of functions, including worldwide financial reporting, inventory and other data management, procurement, invoicing and email communications. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, sabotage and similar events. Global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our IT systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as 'advanced persistent threats'. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction of confidential information stored in our systems or in non-encrypted portable media or storage devices. We could also experience a business interruption, information theft of confidential data, or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers. Despite the implementation of network security measures and disaster recovery plans, our systems and those of third parties on which we rely may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. If we or our vendors are unable (or are perceived as unable) to prevent such outages and breaches, our operations may be disrupted and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We expect that risks and exposures related to cybersecurity attacks will remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of these threats. We may not be able to prevent or detect all errors or fraud. Due to the inherent limitations of internal control systems, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected in a timely manner or at all. Accordingly, we cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues, errors or instances of fraud, if any, within (or otherwise impacting) the Corporation have been or will be prevented or detected. In addition, over time, certain aspects of a control system may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate, which we may not be able to address quickly enough to prevent all instances of error or fraud. We may not be able to increase revenue if outsourcing by OEMs or service providers slows. Future growth in our revenue includes a dependence on new outsourcing opportunities in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from OEMs or service providers. Our future growth will be limited to the extent that these opportunities are not available as a result of decisions of OEMs or service providers to perform these functions internally or delaying their decision to outsource, or if we 18 are unable to win new contracts. Customers may also decide to insource production that they had previously outsourced to better utilize their internal capacity or for other reasons. In addition, the global economic environment, political pressures, negative sentiment by our customers' customers or local governments may impact our customers' business decisions. These and other factors could adversely affect the rate of outsourcing generally, or adversely affect the rate of outsourcing to EMS providers like Celestica. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Our quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on various factors, certain of which are described below, and many of which are beyond our control. •the volume and timing of customer demand relative to our capacity; •the typical short life cycle of our customers' products and success in the marketplace of our customers' products; •customers' financial conditions; •changes to our mix of customers, programs and/or end market demand; •varying revenues and gross margins among geographies and programs for the products or services we provide; •pricing pressure, the competitive environment and contract terms and conditions; •challenges associated with the ramping of programs for new or existing customers; •unanticipated customer disengagements; •the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; •our effectiveness in planning production and managing inventory, fixed assets and manufacturing processes; •operational inefficiencies and disruptions in production at individual sites; •changes in cost and availability of commodities, materials, components, services and labor; •current or future litigation and/or governmental actions; •currency fluctuations; and •changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions and world events. Our mix of revenue by end market is also impacted by, among other factors, overall end market demand, the timing and extent of new program wins, program completions or losses, customer disengagements, or follow-on business from customers and from acquisitions. Changes to our mix of revenue by end market, and the conditions that are specific to each end market, could lead to volatility in our revenue and margins from period to period and adversely impact our financial position and cash flows. From time to time we experience some level of seasonality in our quarterly revenue patterns across certain of the end markets we serve. As our revenue from quarter-to-quarter is dependent on various factors, including the level of demand and mix in each of our end markets, it is difficult to isolate the impact of seasonality and other external factors on our business. However, historically, revenue from our storage end market has increased in the fourth quarter of the year compared to the third quarter, and then decreased in the first quarter of the following year, reflecting the increase in customer demand we typically experience in this end market in the fourth quarter. In addition, we typically experience our lowest overall revenue levels during the first quarter of each year. There is no assurance that these patterns will continue. 19 Compliance with governmental laws and obligations could be costly and may negatively impact our financial performance. We are subject to various federal/national, state/provincial, local, foreign and supra-national environmental laws and regulations. Our environmental management systems and practices have been designed to provide for compliance with these laws and regulations. Maintaining compliance with and responding to increasingly stringent regulations require a significant investment of time and resources and may restrict our ability to modify or expand our manufacturing sites or to continue production. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may potentially result in significant fines and penalties, our operations may be suspended or subjected to increased oversight, and our cost of related investigations could be material in any period. More complex and stringent environmental legislation continues to be imposed, including laws that place increased responsibility and requirements on the "producers" of electronic equipment and, in turn, their providers and suppliers. Such laws may relate to product inputs (such as hazardous substances and energy consumption), product use (such as energy efficiency and waste management/recycling), and/or operational outputs/by-products from our manufacturing processes that can result in environmental contamination (such as waste water, air emissions and hazardous waste). Noncompliance with these requirements may potentially result in substantial costs, including fines and penalties, and we may incur liability to our customers and consumers. Where compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies, OEMs may turn to EMS companies like Celestica for assistance in meeting their obligations. Our customers are becoming increasingly focused on issues such as waste management (including recycling), climate change (including the reduction of carbon emissions) and product stewardship, and expect their EMS providers to be environmental leaders. We strive to meet such customer expectations, although these demands may extend beyond our regulatory obligations and require significant investments of time and resources to attract and retain customers. We generally have obtained environmental assessment reports, or reviewed assessment reports undertaken by others, for most of our manufacturing sites at the time of acquisition or leasing. Such assessments may not reveal all environmental liabilities, and current assessments have not been obtained for all sites. In addition, some of our operations involve the use of hazardous substances that could cause environmental contamination. Although if deemed necessary, we may investigate, remediate or monitor air, soil and/or groundwater contamination at some of our owned or leased sites, we may not be aware of, or adequately address, all such conditions, and we may incur significant costs to perform such work in the future. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, environmental laws impose liability for the costs of removal, remediation or risk assessment of hazardous or toxic substances on an owner, occupier or operator of real estate, even if such person or company was unaware of or not responsible for the discharge or migration of such substances. In some instances where soil or groundwater contamination existed prior to our ownership or occupation, landlords or former owners may have retained some contractual responsibility or regulatory liability, but this may not provide sufficient protection to reduce or eliminate liability to us. Third-party claims for damages or personal injury are also possible and could result in significant costs to us. Moreover, current remediation, mitigation and risk assessment measures may not be adequate to comply with future laws. In addition to the environmental regulations described above, which generally apply to all of our manufacturing operations and processes, certain end markets in which we operate (particularly the healthcare and aerospace and defense markets) are subject to additional regulatory oversight. Our healthcare business is subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"), Health Canada, the European Medicines Agency, the Brazilian Health Surveillance Agency, and similar regulatory bodies in other jurisdictions, relating to the medical devices and hardware we manufacture for our customers. Several of our sites around the world are certified or registered in quality management standards applicable to the healthcare industry. We are required to comply with the various statutes and regulations related to the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of our medical devices in addition to reporting of certain information with respect to the safety of such products. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines, injunctions, product recalls, import detentions, additional regulatory controls, suspension of production, and/or the shutting down of one or more of our sites, among other adverse outcomes. Failure to comply with these regulations may also materially affect our reputation and/or relationships with customers and regulators. 20 We provide design, engineering and manufacturing related services to our customers in the aerospace and defense end market. As part of these services, we are subject to substantial regulation from government agencies including the U.S. Department of Defense ("DOD") and the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. Several of our sites around the world are certified in quality management standards applicable to the aerospace and defense industry. Failure to comply with these regulations or the loss of any of our quality management certifications may result in fines, penalties and injunctions, and could prevent us from executing on current or winning future contracts, any of which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition to quality management standards, there are several other U.S. regulations that we are also required to follow, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR"), which provides uniform policies and procedures for acquisition; the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, a DOD agency supplement to the FAR that provides DOD-specific acquisition regulations that DOD government acquisition officials, and those contractors doing business with DOD, must follow in the procurement process for goods and services; and the Truth in Negotiations Act, which is a law enacted for the purpose of providing for full and fair disclosure by contractors in the conduct of negotiations with the government. Our international operations require us to comply with various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (Canada) ("CFPOA"). In some countries in which we operate, it may be customary for businesses to engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA, CFPOA or other laws and regulations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the FCPA, CFPOA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain business operations, will not be in violation of our policies or procedures. In addition to the difficulty of monitoring compliance, any suspected or alleged activity would require a costly investigation by us and may result in the diversion of management's time, resources and attention. Failure to comply with these laws may subject us to, among other things, adverse publicity, penalties and legal expenses that may harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. With respect to our solar business, the United States government has imposed tariffs on solar cells manufactured in China and Taiwan. Although our agreements with the Solar Supplier and other solar cell suppliers are intended to reduce our need to use solar cells manufactured in these countries, periodic supply constraints for these components may from time to time prevent us from sourcing all of our solar cells from outside of these regions. To the extent that we manufacture solar panels for delivery to our customers in the United States that contain cells manufactured in China or Taiwan, we are subject to such tariffs, which would in turn increase our total solar panel costs. Any such additional costs that we are unable to recover in our pricing to customers would negatively impact our margins and operating results. As a public company, we are subject to stringent laws, regulations and other requirements, including those resulting from the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank"), affecting, among other areas, our accounting, internal controls, corporate governance practices, securities disclosures and reporting. For example, Dodd-Frank contains provisions concerning specified minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries that are believed to benefit armed groups (referred to as "conflict minerals"). As required by this Act, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has adopted due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies that manufacture, or contract to manufacture, products that include conflict minerals. We manufacture such products for our customers. Due to our complex supply chain, compliance with these rules is time-consuming and costly. If we are unable to ascertain the origins of all such minerals used in the manufacturing of our products through the due diligence procedures we implement, we may be unable to satisfy our customers' certification requirements. This may harm our reputation, damage our customer relationships and result in a loss of revenue. If the SEC rules or other new social or environmental standards limit our pool of suppliers in order to produce "conflict free" or "socially responsible" products, or otherwise adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products, we could also experience cost increases and a material adverse impact on our operating results. The regulatory climate can itself affect the demand for our services. For example, government reimbursement rates and other regulations, as well as the financial health of healthcare providers, and recent changes in how healthcare in the U.S. is structured, including as a result of the U.S. Affordable Care Act, and 21 how medical devices are taxed, could affect the willingness and ability of end customers to purchase the products of our customers in this market as well as impact our margins. Our customers are also required to comply with various government regulations, legal requirements and industry standards, including many of the industry-specific regulations discussed above. Our customers' failure to comply could affect their businesses, which in turn would affect our sales to them. In addition, if our customers are required by regulation or other requirements to make changes in their product lines, these changes could significantly disrupt particular programs for these customers and create inefficiencies in our business. Any failure to comply with customer-driven policies and standards, and third party certification requirements, including those related to social responsibility, could adversely affect our business and reputation. In addition to government regulations and industry standards, our customers may require us to comply with their own social responsibility, conflict minerals, quality or other business policies or standards, which may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations and our pre-existing policies, before they commence, or continue, doing business with us. Such policies or standards may be customer-driven, established by the industries in which we operate, or imposed by third party organizations. For example, we are a member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition ("EICC"). The EICC is a non-profit coalition of electronics companies and establishes standards for its members in responsible and ethical practices in the areas of labor, environmental compliance, employee health and safety, ethics and social responsibility. Our compliance with these policies, standards and third-party certification requirements could be costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our operations, customer relationships, reputation and profitability. Compliance or the failure to comply with employment laws and regulations may negatively impact our financial performance. We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign employment laws, including those related to: workplace safety, discrimination, harassment, whistle-blowing, wages and overtime, classification of employees and severance payments. Compliance with such laws may increase our costs. In addition, such laws are subject to change, and enforcement activity relating to these laws, particularly outside the United States, can increase as a result of greater media attention due to alleged violations by other companies, changes in law, political and other factors. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will not be found to have violated elements of such laws. Any such violations could lead to the assessment of fines or damages against us by regulatory authorities or claims by employees, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and/or our reputation. We may be required to make larger contributions to our defined benefit pension and other pension plans in the future. We maintain multiple defined benefit pension plans, as well as other pension plans. Our pension funding policy for our defined pension plans is to contribute amounts sufficient, at minimum, to meet local statutory funding requirements that are based on actuarial calculations. Our obligations are based on certain assumptions relating to expected plan asset performance, salary escalation, employee turnover, retirement ages, life expectancy, expected healthcare costs, the performance of the financial markets, future interest rates, and plan and legislative changes. If actual results or future expectations differ from these assumptions or if statutory funding requirements change, the amounts we are obligated to contribute to the pension plans may increase and such increase could be significant. We are also required to contribute amounts to our other pension plans to meet local statutory funding requests. The amounts we are obligated to contribute may increase due to legislative and other changes. Failure to comply with the conditions of government grants may lead to grant repayments and adversely impact our financial performance. We have received grants from government organizations or other third parties as incentives related to capital investments or other spending. These grants often have future conditions with which we must comply. If we do not meet these future conditions, we could be obligated to repay all or a portion of the grant, which could adversely affect our financial position and operating results. 22 There are inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of our financial statements. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS. The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues and expenses. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct business, and the failure to comply with such covenants could cause our outstanding debt to become immediately payable. Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit our management's discretion with respect to certain business matters. Among other factors, these covenants restrict our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt, create liens or other encumbrances, change the nature of our business, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, merge or consolidate with other entities, or effect a change in control. This agreement also contains certain financial covenants related to indebtedness and interest coverage. If we are not able to comply with these covenants, our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable, and the incurrence of additional debt under our revolving credit facility would not be allowed, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business. We are subject to interest rate fluctuations. We have a $300.0 million revolving credit facility ("Revolving Facility), which may be increased by an additional $150.0 million on an uncommitted basis under specified circumstances, and a $250.0 million term loan ("Term Loan") that each mature in May 2020 (collectively, the "credit facility"). Outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility bear interest at LIBOR, Prime, Base Rate Canada or Base Rate (each as defined in the credit agreement), at our option, plus a margin. The Term Loan bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin. At December 31, 2015, we had $237.5 million outstanding under the Term Loan, and $25.0 million outstanding under the Revolving Facility (at each of December 31, 2014 and 2013 — no Term Loan and no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Facility). Our borrowings under our credit facility, which vary from time to time, expose us to interest rate risks due to fluctuations in these rates and margins. If the amount we borrow under our credit facility is substantial, an increase in interest rates would have a more pronounced impact on our interest expense. Significant interest rate fluctuations may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In connection with our Substantial Issuer Bid, we incurred significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility. The financing of a substantial portion of our $350.0 million "modified Dutch auction" substantial issuer bid ("SIB") with the Term Loan has significantly increased our indebtedness in comparison to recent historical levels. This has increased our interest expense and could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The amount of cash required to pay interest and principal repayments impact our liquidity and the cash resources that would otherwise be available to conduct our business, including for working capital or to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, or future expansion of our business, and for other general corporate purposes. Deterioration in financial markets or in the macro-economic environment may adversely affect our ability to raise funds or increase the cost of raising funds. We currently have access to the Revolving Facility, which matures in May 2020. We may also issue debt or equity securities to fund our operations or make acquisitions. Our ability to borrow or raise capital, or renew our facility, may be impacted if financial markets are unstable. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our Revolving Facility. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of our senior lenders to meet their funding commitments. They may not be able to meet 23 their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding sources can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. Our credit rating may be downgraded. Any negative change in our credit rating may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. The interest of our controlling shareholder, Onex Corporation, with an approximate 79% voting interest, may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. Onex Corporation ("Onex"), beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, all of our outstanding multiple voting shares and less than 1% of our outstanding subordinate voting shares. The number of subordinate voting shares and multiple voting shares beneficially owned by Onex, directly or indirectly, represents approximately 79% of the voting interest in Celestica. Accordingly, Onex has the ability to exercise significant influence over our business and affairs and generally has the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders where our shares vote together as a single class. Onex may make decisions regarding Celestica and our business that are opposed to other shareholders' interests or with which other shareholders may disagree. Onex's voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of our Corporation that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. Through its shareholdings, Onex has the power to elect our directors and its approval is required for significant corporate transactions such as certain amendments to our articles of incorporation, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and plans of arrangement. The directors so elected have the authority, subject to applicable laws, to appoint or replace senior management, cause us to issue additional subordinate voting shares or multiple voting shares or repurchase subordinate voting shares or multiple voting shares, declare dividends or take other actions. Under our credit agreement, it is an event of default entitling our lenders to demand repayment if Onex ceases to control Celestica unless the shares of Celestica become widely held ("widely held" meaning that no one person or entity owns more than 33% of the votes). Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Onex, is also one of our directors, and holds, indirectly or directly, shares representing the majority of the voting rights of the shares of Onex. The interests of Onex and Mr. Schwartz may differ from the interests of the remaining holders of subordinate voting shares. For additional information about shareholder rights and restrictions relative to our subordinate voting shares and multiple voting shares, see Item 10(B), "Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation". For additional information about our principal shareholders, see Item 7(A), "Major Shareholders". Also see Item 7(B), "Related Party Transactions" for a description of Mr. Schwartz's ownership interest in the purchasing entity under an agreement of purchase and sale with respect to our real property located in Toronto, Ontario. Onex has, from time-to-time, issued debentures exchangeable and redeemable under certain circumstances for our subordinate voting shares, entered into forward equity agreements with respect to our subordinate voting shares, sold our subordinate voting shares (after exchanging multiple voting shares for subordinate voting shares), or redeemed these debentures through the delivery of our subordinate voting shares, and could take similar actions in the future. These sales may impact our share price or have consequences on our debt and ownership structure. 24 We are subject to litigation, including securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits, which may result in substantial litigation expenses, settlement costs or judgments, require the time and attention of key management resources, and result in adverse publicity, any of which may negatively impact our financial performance. We were party (until July 2015) to securities class action lawsuits commenced in 2007 against us and our former Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York by certain individuals, on behalf of themselves and other unnamed purchasers of our subordinate voting shares. On July 28, 2015, the District Court approved the settlement of the U.S. case. The time for any person to appeal the District Court's order has expired, and the settlement payment to the plaintiffs was paid by our liability insurance carriers. Parallel class proceedings were initiated in October 2011 against us and our former Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice. These proceedings are not affected by the settlement discussed above. On October 15, 2012, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granted limited aspects of the defendants' motion to strike, but dismissed the defendants' limitation period argument. The defendants' appeal of the limitation period issue was dismissed on February 3, 2014 when the Court of Appeal for Ontario overturned its own prior decision on the limitation period issue. On August 7, 2014, the defendants were granted leave to appeal the decision to the Supreme Court of Canada, together with two other cases that dealt with the limitation period issue. The Supreme Court of Canada heard the appeal on February 9, 2015. The Supreme Court of Canada released its decision on December 4, 2015, allowing the defendants' appeal and holding that the statutory claims of the plaintiff and the class under the Ontario Securities Act are barred by the applicable limitation period. In an earlier decision dated February 14, 2014, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice denied certification of the plaintiffs' common law claims. No party appealed that decision. We will be seeking our costs of the Supreme Court proceedings and the proceedings below. It is too early to assess the quantum of costs that may be awarded, if any. The Canadian plaintiff has initiated a second motion to certify its common law claims, even though those claims were denied certification in February 2014. We believe that the February 2014 decision is final and binding and that any attempt to re-open certification of the common law claims is without merit. There can be no assurance that the outcome of the lawsuit will be favorable to us or that it will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or liquidity. In addition, we may incur substantial litigation expenses in defending the claim. As the matter is ongoing, we cannot predict its duration or the resources required. See Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Litigation and contingencies" and note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption "Litigation" in Item 18 for a detailed description of the history and status of such lawsuits. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we are from time to time party to various copyright, patent and trademark infringement, unfair competition, breach of contract, customs, employment and other legal actions incidental to our business, as plaintiff or defendant. From time to time, we are involved in various claims, suits, investigations and legal proceedings. Additional legal claims or regulatory matters may arise in the future and could involve matters relating to commercial disputes, government regulation and compliance, intellectual property, antitrust, tax, employment or shareholder issues, product liability claims and other issues on a global basis. Regardless of the merits of the claims, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our business. The defense and ultimate outcome of any lawsuits or other legal proceedings may result in higher operating expenses and a decrease in our margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We cannot predict the final outcome of such lawsuits or the likelihood that other proceedings will be instituted against us. Accordingly, the cost of defending against such lawsuits or any future lawsuits or proceedings may be high and, in any event, these legal proceedings may result in the diversion of our management's time and attention away from our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards enacted by the relevant standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our reported operating results, profitability and financial performance. Accounting standards are revised periodically and/or expanded upon by applicable standard-setting bodies. We are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards and to comply with revised interpretations issued 25 from time-to-time by these authoritative bodies, which include the Canadian Accounting Standards Board ("CASB"), the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"), and the SEC. Such standards could have a significant effect on our accounting methods and reported results. For example, the IASB issued a new revenue recognition standard and amended the standard relating to the classification, measurement and impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting; both of these standards will apply to us beginning January 1, 2018. Changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported operating results or financial condition. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS. Our reported financial information may not be comparable to the information reported by our competitors or other public companies that use different accounting standards. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and IASB have been jointly collaborating on a series of projects to converge, improve and align the U.S. and international accounting standards as one global high quality standard. While there have been delays in the convergence effort, we continue to monitor developments and consider the potential impacts. Shares eligible for public sale may adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our subordinate voting shares in the public market, or the issuance of subordinate voting shares in connection with our equity-based compensation plans or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. At February 10, 2016, we had 124.5 million subordinate voting shares and 18.9 million multiple voting shares outstanding. In addition, as of such date, there were 15.8 million subordinate voting shares reserved for issuance from treasury under our employee equity-based compensation plans and for director compensation, including 2.9 million subordinate voting shares underlying stock options (vested and unvested), 0.8 million subordinate voting shares underlying unvested restricted share units, 3.6 million subordinate voting shares underlying unvested performance share units, and 1.3 million subordinate voting shares underlying deferred share units that have not been settled. Moreover, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, we may issue an unlimited number of additional subordinate voting shares without further shareholder approval (subject to any required stock exchange approvals). Sales of a substantial number of our subordinate voting shares in the public market by holders of exercised vested options or vested share units settled in or exercised for subordinate voting shares may lower the prevailing market price for such shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if we issue additional subordinate voting shares, or if holders of outstanding vested options exercise those options or if vested shares units are settled in newly-issued subordinate voting shares, our shareholders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all options is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, if any, as well as anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the relevant award agreement. The market price of our stock may be volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of our stock. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of our company. Factors such as changes in our operating results, announcements by our customers, competitors or other events affecting companies in the electronics industry, currency fluctuations, general market fluctuations, and macro-economic conditions may cause the market price of our subordinate voting shares to decline. Using our cash resources to repurchase subordinate voting shares presents potential risks and disadvantages to us and our continuing shareholders. Under the SIB launched and completed during the second quarter of 2015, we repurchased and cancelled approximately 26.3 million subordinate voting shares at a price of $13.30 per share (for an aggregate purchase price of $350.0 million), representing approximately 15.5% of our total multiple voting shares and subordinate voting shares issued and outstanding immediately prior to the completion of the SIB. Although our board of directors determined that the SIB repurchases were in the best interests of our shareholders, and under our new NCIB (approved in February 2016), we are authorized to repurchase up to approximately 10.5 million additional subordinate voting shares, at times and prices we consider appropriate, such repurchases expose us to certain risks including: risks resulting from a reduction in the size of our "public float" (defined as the number of 26 subordinate voting shares owned by non-affiliated shareholders which are available for trading in the securities markets), which may reduce the trading volume of our subordinate voting shares, resulting in reduced liquidity and, potentially, lower trading prices; the risk that our share price could decline such that future repurchases of our subordinate voting shares may be at a lower price per share than we paid in the SIB; and the risk that using our cash resources for this purpose has reduced, and may reduce, the amount of cash that would otherwise be available to pursue potential cash acquisitions or other strategic business opportunities. A U.S. government shutdown could adversely impact our results of operations. Approximately one-half of our cash equivalents at December 31, 2015 were invested in money market funds that primarily hold U.S. government securities. As a result, a U.S. government shutdown and/or U.S. government debt ceiling impasse could result in a default by the U.S. government on such securities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, such events could result in a U.S. credit rating downgrade, significant U.S. and global economic and financial market dislocations, interest rate and foreign exchange rate impacts and other potential unforeseen consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Potential unenforceability of judgments. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. A majority of our directors, officers and controlling persons are residents of (or organized in) Canada. Also, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors, officers, or controlling persons who are not residents of the United States, or to enforce judgments in the United States obtained in courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for shareholders to enforce a U.S. judgment in Canada or to succeed in a lawsuit in Canada based only on U.S. securities laws. We cannot assure our shareholders that our NCIB will enhance shareholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of our share price. We repurchase subordinate voting shares in the open market and otherwise for cancellation pursuant to, among other things, NCIBs, which allow us to repurchase a limited number of subordinate voting shares during a specified period. Under our new NCIB, we are authorized to repurchase up to an aggregate of approximately 10.5 million subordinate voting shares at times and prices we consider appropriate depending upon prevailing market conditions and other corporate considerations. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. The existence of the NCIB, however, could also cause our subordinate voting share price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our subordinate voting shares. Negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation as well as our business, financial results and share price. Unfavorable media related to our industry, company, brand, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects may affect our share price and the performance of our business, regardless of its accuracy or inaccuracy. The speed at which negative publicity can be disseminated has increased dramatically with the capabilities of electronic communication, including social media outlets, websites, blogs, or newsletters. Our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to this rapidly changing media environment. Adverse publicity or negative commentary from any media outlet could damage our reputation and reduce the demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business. 27 