ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this report and the Group’s other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Group and its subsidiaries. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Group and its subsidiaries. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks described below or such other risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Puerto Rico’s current economic condition may have an adverse effect on our loan portfolio Beginning in 2005 and continuing through 2007, a number of key economic indicators suggested that the economy of Puerto Rico was slowing down. Construction remained weak during 2007, as the combination of rising interest rates, the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. During the period from January to November of the calendar year 2007, cement production, a real indicator of construction activity, declined by 11.7% as compared to the same period in 2006. As of September 2007, exports decreased by 11.7%, while imports decreased by 8.9%, a negative trade, which continues since the first negative trade balance of the last decade was registered in November 2006. Tourism activity has also declined during fiscal year 2007. Total hotel registrations for the fiscal year 2007 declined 5.1% as compared to the fiscal year 2006. During 2007, new vehicle sales decreased by 13%, the lowest since 1993. In 2007, average employment declined by 1.27% while the average number of unemployed increased by 3.30%; the unemployment rate increased to 11.2% when compared to the December 2006 unemployment rate of 10.2%. 16 Table of Contents In general, the Puerto Rico economy continued its trend of decreasing growth, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. Increases in oil prices and other consumer goods and services, coupled with a 7% sales tax implemented in October 2006 as part of a government program of tax and fiscal reforms, have also contributed to the general economic slowdown. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico will be key determinants of future economic stability. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. These economic concerns and uncertainties in the private and public sectors have had an adverse effect in the credit quality of our loan portfolios as delinquency rates have increased in the short-term and may continue to increase until the economy stabilizes. The reduction in consumer spending may continue to impact growth in our other interest and non-interest revenue sources. A prolonged economic slowdown or a decline in the real estate market could harm the results of our operations The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of lower volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline, and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans that we may originate in the future and may adversely impact our business. During periods of declining interest rates, such as the one being currently experienced, refinancing activity on mortgage loans has tended to increase. However, due to the general economic slowdown in Puerto Rico and its impact on the value of residential properties, an increase in mortgage refinancing activity has not yet occurred. A recent trend of decreasing values in certain housing segments has been noted. There is a risk that a reduction in housing values could negatively impact our loss levels on the mortgage portfolio. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to sell loans, the price we receive on the sale of such loans, and the value of our mortgage loan portfolio, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the market value of assets and liabilities due to interest rate volatility. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to us is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. Any mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities is known as a gap position. A positive gap denotes asset sensitivity, which means that an increase in interest rates could have a positive effect on net interest income, while a decrease in interest rates could have a negative effect on net interest income. We are subject to interest rate risk because of the following factors: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice slower than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline. • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, basis risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices that may not move in tandem. 17 Table of Contents • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently. • The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, we would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant impact on mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios. • Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of financial assets and financial liabilities, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings. In limiting interest rate risk to an acceptable level, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. We may suffer losses or experience lower spreads than anticipated in initial projections as management implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. A continuing decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland and ongoing disruptions in the capital markets may harm our investment securities and wholesale funding portfolios The housing market in the U.S. is undergoing a correction of historic proportions. After a period of several years of booming housing markets, fueled by liberal credit conditions and rapidly rising property values, the sector has been in the midst of a substantial dislocation since early 2007. The general level of property values in the U.S., as measured by several indices widely followed by the market, has declined. These declines are the result of ongoing market adjustments that are aligning property values with income levels and home inventories. The supply of homes in the market has increased substantially, and additional property value decreases may be required to clear the overhang of excess inventory in the U.S. market. Declining property values could impact the credit quality and fair value of our non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations and structured credit investments included as part of our investment securities portfolio. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot maintain access to stable funding sources Our business requires continuous access to various funding sources. While we are able to fund our operations through deposits as well as through advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and other alternative sources, our business is significantly dependent upon other wholesale funding sources, such as repurchase agreements. While we expect to have continued access to credit from the foregoing sources of funds, there can be no assurance that such financing sources will continue to be available or will be available on favorable terms. In the event that such sources of funds are reduced or eliminated and we are not able to replace them on a cost-effective basis, we may be forced to curtail or cease our loan origination business and treasury activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our decisions regarding credit risk and the allowance for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations Making loans is an essential element of our business and there is a risk that our loans will not be repaid. The default risk is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; 18 Table of Contents • changes in economic or industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We strive to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors such as default frequency, internal risk ratings, expected future cash collections, loss recovery rates and general economic factors, among others, as are the size and diversity of individual credits. Our methodology for measuring the adequacy of the allowance relies on several key elements which include a specific allowance for identified problem loans, a general systematic allowance, and an unallocated allowance. We recorded a provision for loan losses of $6.6 million in 2007 based on our overall evaluation of the risks of our loan portfolio. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is currently sufficient given the constant monitoring of the risk inherent in our loan portfolio, there is no precise method of predicting loan losses and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. In addition, the FDIC as well as the OCFI may require us to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in our net earnings and capital and could hinder our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to default and other risks in connection with our mortgage loan originations From the time that we fund the mortgage loans we originate to the time we sell them, we are generally at risk for any mortgage loan defaults. Once we sell the mortgage loans, the risk of loss from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures passes to the purchaser or insurer of the mortgage loans. However, in the ordinary course of business, we make representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers of mortgage loans relating to the validity of such loans. If there is a breach of any of these representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the mortgage loan. In addition, we incur higher liquidity risk with respect to the non-conforming mortgage loans originated by us, because of the lack of a favorable secondary market in which to sell them. We are at risk because most of our business is conducted in a geographically concentrated area Because most of our business activities are conducted in Puerto Rico, and a substantial portion of our credit exposure is in Puerto Rico, we are at risk from adverse economic, political or business developments including a downturn in real estate values and natural hazards that affect Puerto Rico. If Puerto Rico’s economy experiences an overall decline as a result of these adverse developments or natural hazards, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses on loan portfolios would probably increase substantially. This would cause our profitability to decrease. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. We will encounter greater competition as we expand our operations. Increased competition may require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans which could adversely affect our profitability. The Group operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations The Group is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on its operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Group’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or 19 Table of Contents violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Group. Competition in attracting talented people could adversely affect our operations We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and we rely heavily on our management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Retention of senior managers and appropriate succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of our strategies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 