Item 1A. Risk Factors We Have A History Of Losses And Expect That Losses Will Continue In The Future. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $143,878,000. We incurred net losses of $11,340,000, $15,829,000 and $12,193,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2008, net cash used in operating activities was $3.2 million. We have incurred negative cash flows and net losses since inception. Although we have experienced revenue growth in recent years, this growth should not be considered indicative of future performance, particularly given the challenging environment that we now face. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity from current funds and operating cash flow despite the disruption of the capital markets and the continued decline in economic conditions. Moreover, we believe that our existing cash balance, combined with working capital, will be sufficient to enable us to meet planned expenditures under a streamlined business plan through at least the next 12 months. The streamlined business plan calls for, among other things, reductions in marketing and capital expenditures, delaying new hires and making selective inventory purchases. In addition, should we experience unforeseen increases in expenditures or should estimated revenues not materialize, these conditions could significantly impair our ability to fund future operations. Should we experience unanticipated losses or expenditures that exceed current estimates, management would implement a cost reduction plan, that includes a reduction in work force as well as reductions in overhead costs and capital expenditures, and/or attempt to raise additional debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain positive cash flows from operations or profitability. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, future operations will need to be scaled back or discontinued. Soros, Maverick And Prentice Each Own A Large Amount Of Our Stock And Therefore Can Exert Significant Influence Over Our Management And Policies. As of February 27, 2009, affiliates of Soros Fund Management L.L.C (“Soros”) owned approximately 36% of our Common Stock and private funds associated with Maverick Capital, Ltd. (“Maverick”) and investment entities and accounts managed and advised by Prentice Capital Management, LP (“Prentice”) each owned approximately 22% of our Common Stock. We are parties to a voting agreement with Soros, Maverick and Prentice (the “Voting Agreement”), pursuant to which Soros has the right to designate three designees to our Board of Directors, and Maverick and Prentice each have the right to designate one designee. The Voting Agreement also provides that one designee of Soros and the designee of each of Maverick and Prentice have the right to serve on the Compensation Committee and the Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors. If we establish an Executive Committee, the designees of Soros, Maverick and Prentice will be entitled to serve on such committee. In view of their large percentage of ownership, Soros, Maverick and Prentice each have the ability to exert significant influence over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger. The Deterioration in the Global Economic Environment, and Resulting Declines in Consumer Confidence and Spending, Will Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operating Results. The global economic environment deteriorated substantially during 2008. The declining values in real estate, reduced credit lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increases in unemployment levels and recent significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has affected our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2008, our revenues declined by approximately 8%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2007 as this is a highly promotional environment. If the global economic environment continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues and earnings for the remainder of the current fiscal year and continuing into fiscal 2010. 6 Our Stock May Be Delisted From Nasdaq, Which May Adversely Affect Our Ability To Raise Capital and Stockholders Ability To Sell Their Shares. Under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) requirement, if the bid price of the Company’s common stock closes below the minimum $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, the Company’s common stock is subject to potential delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Given the extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq has suspended this requirement until April 20, 2009. The bid price of the Company’s common stock has closed below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days so the Company could be subject to potential delisting if the stock stays below $1.00 and the requirement is reinstated. In that case, the Company would be given 180 calendar days, to regain compliance by maintaining a bid price of at least $1.00 for 10 consecutive business days. We Will Operate Under a Streamlined Business Plan Unless We Are Able To Raise Additional Funds. Our ability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business is dependent upon our ability to establish profitable operations or raise additional financing through public or private debt or equity financing, or other sources of financing to fund operations. The disruption of the capital markets and the continued decline in economic conditions negatively impacts our ability to raise additional financing, and, accordingly, we have developed a streamlined operating plan, which we intend to pursue unless and until additional capital becomes available on acceptable terms. We believe that our existing cash balance, combined with working capital, and our availability under our existing credit facility, will be sufficient to enable us to meet our planned expenditures under this streamlined business plan through at least the next 12 months. The streamlined business plan calls for, among other cost cutting measures, reductions in marketing and capital expenditures, delaying new hires and being more selective in inventory purchases. However, in order to optimize the growth of our business, we will need to seek to raise additional debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify a source of such financing, or that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, should the opportunity to raise additional capital arise, any additional debt or equity financing could result in significant dilution of the existing holders of common stock. Our Lender Has Liens On Substantially All Of Our Assets And Could Foreclose In The Event That We Default Under Our Credit Facility. Under the terms of our credit facility, our lender has a first priority lien on substantially all of our assets, including our cash balances. If we default under the credit facility, our lender would be entitled to, among other things, foreclose on our assets (whether inside or outside a bankruptcy proceeding) in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility. Our Ability To Maintain And Pay Our Indebtedness Under Our Credit Facility Is Dependent Upon Meeting Our Business Plan. We are required to pay interest under our credit facility on a monthly basis. Assuming we meet our business plan, we will be able to pay our interest as required. To a certain extent, however, our ability to meet our business plan, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, and therefore we cannot assure you that based on our business plan we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness under the credit facility and maintain our minimum availability requirement throughout the term of the agreement. If we fall short of our business plan and are unable to raise additional capital, we could default under our credit facility. In the event of a default under the credit facility, our lender would be entitled, among other things, to foreclose on our assets (whether inside or outside a bankruptcy proceeding) in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility. See “Risk Factors – Our Lenders Have Liens On Substantially All Of Our Assets And Could Foreclose In The Event That We Default Under Our Credit Facility.” If We Are Not Accurate In Forecasting Our Revenues, We May Be Unable To Adjust Our Operating Plans In A Timely Manner. Because our business has not yet reached a mature stage, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenues accurately. We base our current and future expense levels and operating plans on expected revenues, but in the short-term a significant portion of our expenses are fixed. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. This inability could cause our operating results in some future quarter to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline significantly. In addition, any such unexpected revenue shortfall could significantly affect our short-term cash flow and our net worth, which could require us to seek additional financing and/or cause a default under our credit facility. See “Risk Factors – Our Ability To Maintain And Pay Our Indebtedness Under Our Credit Facility Is Dependent Upon Meeting Our Business Plan.” Our National Advertising Campaign and Other Marketing Initiatives May Not Be Successful. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers on cost-effective terms. We have relationships with online services, search engines, and other Web sites and e-commerce businesses to provide other links that direct customers to our Web site. In addition, during 2005 we launched our first national television and advertising campaign, and we have continued and expanded on that campaign since that time. Such campaigns are expensive and may not result in the cost effective acquisition of customers. We are relying on the campaign as a source of traffic to our Web site and new customers. If these campaigns and initiatives are not successful, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We Purchase a Substantial Portion of Our Inventory from One Supplier. In 2008 and 2007, we purchased approximately 31% and 38%, respectively, of our inventory from one supplier. Should our relationship with this supplier deteriorate or terminate, or should this supplier lose some or all of its access to the products that we purchase from it, our performance could be adversely affected. Under such 7 circumstances, we would be required to seek alternative sources of supply for these products, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such products from alternative sources on the same terms, or at all. A failure to obtain such products on as favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our revenue and/or gross margin. We Do Not Have Long Term Contracts With Our Vendors And Therefore The Availability Of Merchandise Is At Risk. We do not have any agreements controlling the long-term availability of merchandise or the continuation of particular pricing practices. Our contracts with suppliers typically do not restrict such suppliers from selling products to other buyers. There can be no assurance that our current suppliers will continue to sell products to us on current terms or that we will be able to establish new or otherwise extend current supply relationships to ensure product acquisitions in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable commercial terms. In addition, in order to entice new vendors to open up relationships with us, we sometimes are required to either make prepayments or agree to shortened payment terms. Our ability to develop and maintain relationships with reputable suppliers and obtain high quality merchandise is critical to our success. If we are unable to develop and maintain relationships with suppliers that would allow us to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms, our ability to satisfy our customers’ needs, and therefore our long-term growth prospects, would be materially adversely affected. See “Risk Factors - Brand Owners Could Establish Procedures to Limit Our Ability to Purchase Products Indirectly” and “Risk Factors – We Purchase a Substantial Portion of Our Inventory from One Supplier.” Unexpected Changes In Fashion Trends Could Cause Us To Have Either Excess or Insufficient Inventory. Fashion trends can change rapidly, and our business is sensitive to such changes. There can be no assurance that we will accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends and adjust our merchandise mix to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our products or are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends or in market demand, we could experience insufficient or excess inventory levels or higher markdowns, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Will Be Subject To Cyclical Variations In The Apparel And E-Commerce Markets. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. The recent economic downturn has effected retailers especially hard. The National Retail Federation, a retail trade association, recently announced that it forecasts a 0.5% decline in retail sales for 2009. Furthermore, Internet usage slows down in the summer months. We and other apparel vendors rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, sales. Economic downturns, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects could adversely affect consumer spending habits and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. Alternatively, any improvement, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects could adversely impact our ability to acquire merchandise and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, as our supply of merchandise is dependent on the inability of designers and retailers to sell their merchandise in full-price venues. See “Risk Factors – We Do Not Have Long Term Contracts With Our Vendors And Therefore The Availability of Merchandise Is At Risk.” We Purchase Product From Some Indirect Supply Sources, Which Increases Our Risk of Litigation Involving The Sale Of Non-Authentic Or Damaged Goods. We purchase merchandise both directly from brand owners and indirectly from retailers and third party distributors. The purchase of merchandise from parties other than the brand owners increases the risk that we will mistakenly purchase and sell non-authentic or damaged goods, which could result in potential liability under applicable laws, regulations, agreements and orders. Moreover, any claims by a brand owner, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, generate bad publicity for us, and have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Security Breaches To Our Systems And Database Could Cause Interruptions to Our Business And Impact Our Reputation With Customers, And We May Incur Significant Expenses to Protect Against Such Breaches. A fundamental requirement for online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we use to protect customer transaction and personal data contained in our customer database. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with customers, thereby affecting our long-term growth prospects. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Brand Owners Could Establish Procedures To Limit Our Ability To Purchase Products Indirectly. Brand owners have implemented, and are likely to continue to implement, procedures to limit or control off-price retailers’ ability to purchase products indirectly. In addition, several brand owners in the U.S. have distinctive legal rights rendering them the only legal importer of their respective brands into the U.S. If we acquire such product indirectly from distributors and other third parties who may not have complied with applicable customs laws and regulations, such goods could be subject to seizure from our inventory by U.S. Customs 8 Service, and the importer may have a civil action for damages against us. See “Risk Factors - We Do Not Have Long Term Contracts With Our Vendors And Therefore The Availability Of Merchandise Is At Risk.” We Are Heavily Dependent On Third-Party Relationships, And Failures By A Third Party Could Cause Interruptions To Our Business. We are heavily dependent upon our relationships with our fulfillment operations provider, third party call center and Web hosting provider, delivery companies like UPS and the United States Postal Service, and credit card processing companies such as Paymentech and Cybersource to service our customers' needs. To the extent that there is a slowdown in mail service or package delivery services, whether as a result of labor difficulties, terrorist activity or otherwise, our cash flow and results of operations would be negatively impacted during such slowdown, and the results of such slowdown could have a long-term negative effect on our reputation with our customers. The failure of our fulfillment operations provider, third party call center, credit card processors or Web hosting provider to properly perform their services for us could cause similar effects. Our business is also generally dependent upon our ability to obtain the services of other persons and entities necessary for the development and maintenance of our business. If we fail to obtain the services of any such person or entities upon which we are dependent on satisfactory terms, or we are unable to replace such relationship, we would have to expend additional resources to develop such capabilities ourselves, which could have a material adverse impact on our short-term cash flow and results of operations and our long-term prospects. We Are In Competition With Companies Much Larger Than Ourselves. E-commerce generally and, in particular, the online retail apparel and fashion accessories market, is a dynamic, high-growth market and is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. Our competition for customers comes from a variety of sources including: · existing land-based, full price retailers, that are using the Internet to expand their channels of distribution; · less established online companies; · internet sites; · traditional direct marketers; and · traditional off-price retail stores, which may or may not use the Internet to grow their customer base. Competition in our industry has intensified, and we expect this trend to continue as the list of our competitors grows. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater brand name recognition and more firmly established supply relationships. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: · brand recognition; · merchandise selection; · price; · convenience; · customer service; · order delivery performance; and · site features. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against competitors and future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us could force us to increase expenses and/or decrease our prices at some point in the future. We Need To Further Establish Brand Name Recognition. We believe that further establishing, maintaining and enhancing our brand is a critical aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our online traffic. The number of Internet sites that offer competing services, many of which already have well established brands in online services or the retail apparel industry generally, increases the importance of establishing and maintaining brand name recognition. Promotion of Bluefly.com will depend largely on our success in providing a high quality online experience supported by a high level of customer service, which cannot be assured. In addition, to attract and retain online users, and to promote and maintain Bluefly.com in response to competitive pressures, we may find it necessary to increase substantially our advertising and marketing expenditures. If we are unable to provide high quality online services or customer support, or otherwise fail to promote and maintain Bluefly.com, or if we incur excessive expenses in an attempt to promote and maintain Bluefly.com, our long-term growth prospects would be materially adversely affected. 9 There Can Be No Assurance That Our Technology Systems Will Be Able To Handle Increased Traffic; Implementation Of Changes To Web Site. A key element of our strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic on, and use of, Bluefly.com. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of Bluefly.com, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as maintain adequate customer service levels. Our revenues will depend on the number of visitors who shop on Bluefly.com and the volume of orders we can handle. Unavailability of our Web site or reduced order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of goods sold and could also adversely affect consumer perception of our brand name. We may experience periodic system interruptions from time to time. If there is a substantial increase in the volume of traffic on Bluefly.com or the number of orders placed by customers, we will be required to expand and upgrade further our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of Bluefly.com or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases on a timely basis. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of Bluefly.com, which is particularly challenging given the rapid rate at which new technologies, customer preferences and expectations and industry standards and practices are evolving in the online commerce industry. Accordingly, we redesign and enhance various functions on our Web site on a regular basis, and we may experience instability and performance issues as a result of these changes. We May Be Subject To Higher Return Rates. We recognize that purchases of apparel and fashion accessories over the Internet may be subject to higher return rates than traditional store-bought merchandise. We have established a liberal return policy in order to accommodate our customers and overcome any hesitancy they may have with shopping via the Internet. As a result, our reserve for returns and credit card chargebacks for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 has been 39.1%, 39.6% and 39.6%, respectively. If return rates are higher than expected, our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Success Is Largely Dependent Upon Our Executive Personnel. We believe our success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our executive personnel. In particular, we rely upon their strategic guidance, their relationships and credibility in the vendor and financial communities and their ability to recruit key operating personnel. Our current employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer run through July 2009 and March 2011, respectively, however there can be no assurance that any of them will not terminate their employment earlier. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our credibility in the vendor communities and our ability to recruit new key operating personnel. Our Success Is Dependent Upon Our Ability To Attract New Key Personnel. Our operations will also depend to a great extent on our ability to attract new key personnel with relevant experience and retain existing key personnel in the future. The market for qualified personnel is extremely competitive. Our failure to attract additional qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long-term growth. We are currently operating under a streamlined business plan and delaying new hires. We May Be Liable For Infringing The Intellectual Property Rights Of Others. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us. From time to time in the ordinary course of business we have been, and we expect to continue to be, subject to claims alleging infringement of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. These claims and any resulting litigation, if it occurs, could subject us to significant liability for damages. In addition, even if we prevail, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of our time and attention. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims unless we are able to enter into agreements with the third parties making these claims. We May Be Liable for Product Liability Claims. We sell products manufactured by third parties, some of which may be defective. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the retailer of the product. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and on our reputation with customers. Unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could have a negative impact on our business. We Cannot Guarantee The Protection Of Our Intellectual Property. Our intellectual property is critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, domain names and trade secret protection to protect our proprietary rights. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. While we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not prevent misappropriation. We are pursuing registration of various trademarks, service marks and domain names in the United States and abroad. Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country, and there can be no assurance that the United States or foreign jurisdictions will afford us any protection for our intellectual property. 10 There also can be no assurance that any of our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, we do not know whether we will be able to defend our proprietary rights since the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving. Moreover, even to the extent that we are successful in defending our rights, we could incur substantial costs in doing so. Our Business Could Be Harmed By Consumers' Concerns About The Security Of Transactions Over The Internet. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and commercial online services, the increase in identity theft and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet and commercial online services, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Moreover, although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Legal Uncertainties Relating To The Internet In General And To Our Industry In Particular And May Become Subject To Costly Government Regulation. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, and laws or regulations directly applicable to online commerce. However, it is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted that would apply to the Internet and other online services. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may increase our cost of doing business and/or decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The applicability to the Internet of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may take years to resolve. Any such new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and online commerce could also increase our cost of doing business. In addition, if we were alleged to have violated federal, state or foreign, civil or criminal law, we could face material liability and damage to our reputation and, even if we successfully defend any such claim, we would incur significant costs in connection with such defense. We Face Uncertainties Relating To Sales And Other Taxes. We are not currently required to pay sales or other similar taxes in respect of shipments of goods into states other than Ohio and New York. However, state taxation laws and regulations may change in the future, and one or more states may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, such as our company, that engage in online commerce. In addition, any new operation in states outside Ohio and New York could subject shipments into such states to state sales taxes under current or future laws. A successful assertion by one or more states or any foreign country that the sale of merchandise by us is subject to sales or other taxes, could subject us to material liabilities and, to the extent that we pass such costs on to our customers, could decrease our sales. The Holders Of Our Common Stock May Be Adversely Affected By The Rights Of Holders Of Preferred Stock That May Be Issued In The Future. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as amended, contain certain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a takeover. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 15,479,250 additional shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without approval of the holders of Common Stock, to issue preferred stock, for any reason and at any time, with such rates of dividends, redemption provisions, liquidation preferences, voting rights, conversion privileges and other characteristics as it may deem necessary or appropriate. The rights of holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We Rely On The Effectiveness Of Our Internal Controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and assess on an on-going basis the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to audit the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls and attest to management’s assessment of the design and the effectiveness of our internal controls. The first such audit will be required for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. It is possible that, as we prepare for this audit, we could discover certain deficiencies in the design and/or operation of our internal controls that could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data. We have invested and will continue to invest significant resources in this process. Because an audit of our internal controls has not been required to be reported in the past, we are uncertain as to what impact a conclusion that deficiencies exist in our internal controls over financial reporting would have on the trading price of our Common Stock. 11 Item 