D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our results of operations may be impacted by monetary risk. Our portfolio of marketable securities is subject to various market risks. We are exposed to fluctuations in the rate of the United States Dollar and Euro versus the NIS. Most of our income is in NIS, whereas most of our purchases are in United States Dollars and in Euros. In addition, a significant portion of our short term bank borrowings, when needed, are in United States Dollars and/or in Euros. A significant depreciation in the NIS vis-à-vis the United States Dollar and/or Euro could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We strive to minimize market risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations and the cost of imported goods, especially by opening documentary credits for suppliers abroad, holding foreign currency reserves and initiating forward transactions and foreign currency options. As a method of investing cash reserves, we hold from time to time a portfolio of marketable securities traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange as well as other stock exchanges and certain bonds traded abroad. This portfolio of marketable securities is subject to various market risks resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency, exchange rates, price fluctuations and other market risks in Israel and abroad. We do not utilize derivative securities for trading purposes, enter into swap arrangements or otherwise hedge our currency in a manner that we believe could expose us to significant market risk. Our financial instruments consist mainly of cash and cash equivalents, current accounts receivable, short-term borrowings, current accounts payable and accruals. In view of their nature, the fair value of the financial instruments, included in working capital, is usually identical or close to their book value. 4 Our business may be materially affected if any of our major clients defaults on its payment to us. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of trade receivables. Despite our large number of clients (approximately 1,500 in Israel and abroad), a significant part of our sales is made to a limited number of customers (mainly the organized market). Our two largest customers, Shufersal Ltd. and Mega Retail Ltd. (Blue Square), accounted for 31% of our sales in 2013. We generally do not require and do not receive collateral from those customers, although we do require and receive collateral from most of the remainder of our clients in Israel to ensure security of collecting payments. We maintain an allowance for doubtful debts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information which our management believes adequately covers all anticipated losses in respect of trade receivables. There can be no assurance that this allowance will be adequate. In the event that any of our major clients defaults on its payment obligations to us, we will not possess sufficient security to collect the entire debt. We depend on a small number of principal clients who have in the past bought our products in large volumes. We cannot assure that these clients or any other client will continue to buy our products in the same volumes, on the same terms or at all. Despite our wide dispersion of clients, we have two major clients, Shufersal Ltd. and Mega Retail Ltd., both of which own, among other things, supermarket chains, which accounted for approximately 19% and 12%, respectively, of our revenue during 2013. We do not have long term purchase contracts with our clients, and our sales arrangements with our clients do not have minimum purchase requirements. We cannot assure that our major clients will continue to buy our products at all or in the same volumes or on the same terms as they have in the past. Their failure to do so may significantly reduce our sales. Losing one or more of them may adversely affect our business results. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to attract new customers. We are dependent on our key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a small number of technical staff, managers and directors, including management services provided to us by Zwi Williger and Joseph Williger, through management companies that they control, each of whom holds senior management positions with us. We do not have any key-man life insurance policy on either Zwi Williger or Joseph Williger. On March 2, 2014, the Company announced an agreement between Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger and Emblaze Ltd. pursuant to which Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger agreed to sell their controlling stake (58.04%) in Willi-Food to Emblaze, which sale is expected to be completed on or about May 4, 2014. Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger have agreed to continue to serve as chairman of the board and president, respectively, or as joint chief executive officers, of the Company for an additional period of between 18 months and three years from September 2014 (the length of service will vary depending on whether or not their service agreements are re-approved at the Company's next annual general meeting). See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – 7A. Related Party Transactions".The loss of either or both of Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We are dependent on Arla Foods amba, or "Arla", and we also work with a limited number of other key suppliers. If these suppliers raise prices or terminate their engagement with us, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on Arla, which supplies a high percentage 45% (47% in 2012) of our dairy and dairy substitute products (although no single company supplies a majority of any of our products). Terminating the engagement with any supplier, and Arla in particular, or a material change in the engagement terms for purchasing products from those suppliers may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a distribution agreement with Arla pursuant to which we serve as Arla’s sole and exclusive agent and distributor in Israel of certain products for a ten-year period from March 2005. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Suppliers”. If this supplier raises its prices, our operating results may be adversely affected. See risk factor below - "Increases or decreases in global product prices have in the past, and in the future may continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability". We believe that there are alternative suppliers for purchasing our products; however, we cannot assure that the products of the alternative suppliers will become immediately available and that the terms of purchase will be similar to the current ones. We may not be able to successfully compete with larger competitors who have greater operations, financial, marketing, labor and other resources than we have. The food distribution business in Israel is highly competitive. We face competition from existing competitors in respect of imported as well as locally manufactured food products. Local producers are not subject to the financial risks of importing food products or to governmental policies regarding taxation of imported food products to which we as importers are subject. We may also face competition from potential newcomers to the food business as well as from existing importers and/or manufacturers not currently offering the same lines of products as us. In addition, in the event we further expand our activity in the international food markets, we will also face competition from manufacturers and/or distributors from the locations in which we expand our activity. Certain of our current and potential competitors are substantially more established, benefit from substantially greater market recognition and have greater financial, marketing, labor and other resources than we have. If any of our competitors materially reduces prices, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. Such reductions, if effected, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 5 Increases or decreases in global product prices have in the past, and in the future may continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The cost of food commodities and other food products is cyclical and subject to other market factors and may fluctuate significantly. As a result, our cost in securing these products is subject to substantial increases over which we have no control. In addition, fuel costs, which represent the most significant factor affecting both utility costs at our facilities and our transportation costs, are subject to wide fluctuations. Although we are making best efforts, we cannot assure that we will be able to pass on to customers the increased costs associated with the procurement of these products. Moreover, there has in the past been, and there may in the future be, a time lag between the incurrence of such increased costs and the transfer of such increases to customers. To the extent that increases in the prices of our products cannot be passed on to customers or there is a delay in doing so, we are likely to experience an increase in our costs which may materially reduce our margin of profitability. Further, there is an additional lag from the date we purchase inventory from our suppliers situated outside of Israel (or commit to purchase inventory from our suppliers) until the date we sell this inventory to our customers in Israel. To the extent that the purchase price of products that we purchase decreases from the time that we purchase our inventory (or commit to purchase our inventory) until the time we sell the inventory to our customers, our margin of profitability may be materially reduced if we are not able to sell our products at prices exceeding such purchase prices. Increases or decreases in global product prices in the future may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not accurately predict the rate of consumption of our products. We hold inventory of basic foodstuffs (such as preserved food, edible oils, pasta and rice) and other food products, and we accumulate inventories of these products based on our prediction of the consumption of these products by our customers. If actual consumption does not meet the prediction, and the shelf life of such products expires or we cannot otherwise sell such products, this may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, to the extent we do not have adequate inventory of these critical products (due, for example, to an emergency situation or our failure to predict the rate of consumption of our products), we will not be able to meet the needs of our customers and our potential revenues may be adversely affected. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability. We may be subject to product liability claims for misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled food products. We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, misbranding, product tampering, and other adulteration of food products. Consumption of a contaminated, spoiled, misbranded, tampered with or adulterated product may result in personal illness or injury. We could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or that exceed our insurance coverage. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming and may require management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business. A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes adulterated could result in: product withdrawals, product recalls, destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of confidence in our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 6 We may be adversely affected by any interruption to our storage facility. We store most of our products in one main location – a logistics center warehouse situated in Yavne, Israel, used for products being distributed to customers. Any interruption to this storage facility, whether by power failure, flooding or other event, would have a material impact on our ability to trade in the ordinary course. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our losses in the event our products are subject to product liability claims or our products are subject to recall. In such event, it would have a material adverse effect on us. Our products may become the subject of product liability claims, and there can be no assurance that our property insurance coverage limits will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. A product recall or a product liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have substantial coverage, could result in significant expenses, including legal defense costs, thereby lowering our earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. A successful product liability claim or other judgment against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation. Our operating results may be subject to variations from quarter to quarter. Our operating results may be subject to variations from quarter to quarter depending on, among other things, the timing of sales campaigns and special events initiated by both us and our customers, the major Jewish holidays (such as the Jewish New Year and Passover), our ability to manage future inventory levels in line with business opportunities and anticipated customers’ demand, competitive developments in the market, changes in the rates of inflation in Israel and fluctuations in NIS/Dollar exchange rates. There can be no assurance that our sales or net income (if any) in any particular quarter will not be lower than the preceding and/or comparable quarter or that our sales or net income (if any) in a particular quarter will be indicative of our results of operations for the entire year. The trading prices of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly in response to variations in our operating results. Our branded products may not be able to compete successfully with nationally branded products. For sales of our branded products to retailers, the principal competitive factors are price, product quality and quality of service. For sales of branded products to consumers, the principal competitive factors are price and product quality. In many cases, competitors with nationally branded products may have a competitive advantage over our products primarily due to name recognition. Competition to obtain shelf space for our branded products with retailers is primarily based on the expected or historical performance of our product sales relative to our competitors. The principal competitive factors for sales of our branded products to consumers are brand recognition and loyalty, product quality and price. Most of our branded competitors have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing expenditures, and/or increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. We may not successfully integrate our acquisitions We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage the combined operations of any acquired company, to integrate the operations and personnel of such company together with our other subsidiaries into a single organizational structure, and to replace those subsidiary managers who have departed or may in the future leave our employ. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate the operations of our subsidiaries and our acquired businesses into a single organizational structure. Integration of operations could also place additional pressures on our management as well as on our other key personnel. The failure to successfully manage any integration could have an adverse material effect on results of our operations. 7 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be compromised. We market certain products under the trademarks “Willi-Food”, “Pizza Top”, “Gold Food”, "Donna Rozza", "Manchow", "Krisponim", "Bubbles", “Gold Frost”, "Habulgaria", "Tifeeret", "ICHOC" and "GELATO", "Say cheese", "Pasta Mia". Although we have registered trademarks for these brands, we cannot assure that the degree of protection these and other trademarks offer will be sufficient to protect our rights in these marks. One shareholder owns a large percentage of our shares. As of April 22, 2014, Willi-Food Investments Ltd. which we refer to as Willi-Food, owned approximately 58.17% of our ordinary shares. Mr. Joseph Williger, who serves as President and as a director of our company held, as of April 22, 2014, approximately 20.29% of the outstanding shares of Willi-Food (approximately 19.29% on a fully-diluted basis). Mr. Zwi Williger, who serves as Chairman of the Board of our company held, as of April 22, 2014 approximately 37.80% of the outstanding shares of Willi-Food (approximately 35.92% on a fully-diluted basis). On March 2, 2014, the Company announced an agreement between Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger and Emblaze Ltd. pursuant to which Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger agreed to sell their controlling stake (58.04%) in Willi-Food to Emblaze, which sale is expected to be completed on or about May 4, 2014. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – 7A. Related Party Transactions". Our Articles of Association do not provide for cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of directors and every resolution of the company in the general meeting of shareholders is deemed duly passed if passed by a simple majority of the shareholders present and voting unless another majority is required by the Israeli Companies Law or by our Articles of Association. Therefore, our major shareholders are able to control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval that do not require a special majority. We are controlled by and have business relations with Willi-Food and its management. Willi-Food, our controlling shareholder, is a holding company whose main asset is the ordinary shares it owns in our company. Willi-Food currently does not directly conduct any material business. Willi-Food, Mr. Zwi Williger (as of April 22, 2014 a 37.80% shareholder of Willi-Food and the Chairman of our Board of Directors), and Mr. Joseph Williger (as of April 22, 2014 a 20.29% shareholder of Willi-Food, a director and our President) have been and continue in certain cases to be party to certain agreements and arrangements relating to our operations. Such transactions include service and employment arrangements between each of Messrs. Joseph and Zwi Williger and us, and a service agreement we have with Willi-Food. All such transactions include consideration. On March 2, 2014, the Company announced an agreement between Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger and Emblaze Ltd. pursuant to which Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger agreed to sell their controlling stake (58.04%) in Willi-Food to Emblaze, which sale is expected to be completed on or about May 4, 2014. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – 7A. Related Party Transactions". In addition, certain of our key personnel also serve in management positions in Willi-Food. By serving in dual capacities, these persons may experience conflicts of interest involving the two companies. Israeli law imposes procedures, including, for certain material transactions, a requirement of shareholder approval, as a precondition to entering into interested party transactions. These procedures may apply to transactions between Willi-Food and us. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to avoid possible detrimental effects of any such conflicts of interest by complying with the procedures mandated by Israeli law. Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger have signed an agreement to transfer control of Willi-Food to Emblaze Ltd. Although Mr. Zwi Williger and Mr. Joseph Williger have agreed to continue to serve the Company for an additional period, Emblaze has no experience in the development, import, export, and marketing of food products. On March 2, 2014, the Company announced that Zwi Williger and Joseph Williger, the controlling shareholders of Willi-Food, our controlling shareholder, signed an agreement with Emblaze Ltd, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, to sell their controlling stake (58.04%) in Willi-Food to Emblaze, subject to the receipt of the Israeli Anti-Trust Authority's approval and the other terms described in the agreement. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – 7A. Related Party Transactions". This transaction is expected to be completed on or about May 4, 2014. Although Zwi Williger and Joseph Williger have agreed to continue to serve as chairman of the board and president, respectively, or as joint chief executive officers, of the Company for an additional period of between 18 months and three years from September 2014 (the length of service will vary depending on whether or not their service agreements are re-approved at the Company's next annual general meeting), Emblaze, formerly a global technology company mainly in the IT, software and mobile sectors, has no experience in the development, import, export, and marketing of food products, and there is no guarantee that the Company will be managed in the same way following the closing of the transaction. 8 The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly and may be affected by our operating results, changes in our business, changes in the products we market and distribute, and general market and economic conditions which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These fluctuations have affected stock prices of many companies without regard to their specific operating performance. For these reasons, the price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. Also, the financial markets in the Unites States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of public companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If our ordinary shares are delisted from Nasdaq, the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares and our ability to issue additional securities may be significantly reduced. We may in the future fail to comply with the Nasdaq Capital Market regulations and listing requirements as to minimum net income, minimum number of shareholders and public float and other requirements, and as a result Nasdaq may initiate procedures to delist our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Since the beginning of 2014, our stock price has been trading in a range from $7.00 to $8.91 per share. Under Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) (the “Rule”), any company whose shares have a closing bid price less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days may be subject to a delisting proceeding by Nasdaq. We now satisfy this requirement as our stock price is well above $1.00 per share. If we fail to meet the continued listing criteria under the Rule, our ordinary shares may be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our ordinary shares. If a delisting of our ordinary shares were to occur, our shares would trade in the over-the-counter market such as on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets”. The over-the-counter market is generally considered to be a less efficient market, and this could diminish investors’ interest in our ordinary shares as well as significantly impact our share price and the liquidity of our ordinary shares. Any such delisting may also severely complicate trading of our shares by our shareholders, or prevent them from re-selling their shares at/or above the price they paid. Furthermore, our relatively low trading volumes may make it difficult for shareholders to trade shares or initiate any other transactions. Delisting may also make it more difficult for us to issue additional securities or secure additional financing. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. We are a relatively small company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In addition, we implemented financial and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices that enable us to comply, with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, rules. For example, we developed accounting and financial capabilities, including the establishment of an internal audit function and development of documentation related to internal control policies and procedures. Failure to establish the necessary controls and procedures would make it difficult to comply with SEC rules and regulations with respect to internal control and financial reporting. We need to take further actions to continue to improve our internal controls. If we are unable to implement solutions to any weaknesses in our existing internal controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted. 9 Substantially all of our assets are pledged to banks, which limits our ability to incur further debt. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to Bank Leumi Le’Israel Ltd., Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot Ltd. and Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in order to secure credit lines from each of these banks. If we were to utilize these credit lines, we expect that the proceeds from the sale of any of these assets may be used to prepay the principal amount owed on the credit lines secured by these pledges. As a result of these arrangements, our ability to dispose of pledged assets may require the consent of these banks, and our ability to incur further debt (whether secured or unsecured) is limited. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel We are subject to regulations and other policies of the Israeli government and of other countries from which we import and into which we export. If we are unable to obtain and maintain regulatory qualifications or approvals for our products, our business may be adversely affected. Regulatory, licensing and quotas: The import, export, storage, marketing, distribution and labeling of food products are subject to extensive regulation and licensing by various Israeli government and municipal agencies, principally the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy (formerly known as the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor), the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. To the extent that we have imported and exported, or will import and export, food products outside of Israel, we may be subject to quotas and other import and export laws and regulations which may limit our ability to sell certain of our food products into these countries. We are required to maintain our distribution processes in conformity with all applicable laws and regulations. In the event that such laws and regulations change, or we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we may be prevented from trading within Israel or another part of the world. Tariffs: The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy (formerly known as the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor) of the State of Israel may increase the levels of tariffs on importing goods. This would have a direct impact on us and our financial performance by increasing our costs which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Kosher Licenses: Under kosher regulations, we are required to ascertain that the food products which we offer for sale bear kosher certification approved by certain authorities such as the Chief Rabbinate of Israel. There is a risk that the relevant authorities in Israel or other areas of the world responsible for issuing kosher licenses may change the criteria for obtaining such licenses. In such circumstances, we may be prohibited from obtaining kosher licenses for various products that we sell into the various kosher markets. Failure to comply with such applicable laws and regulations in relation to kosher licenses could subject us to civil sanctions, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial performance. Economic conditions in Israel affect our financial performance. A major part of our sales are made in Israel, and consequently our financial performance is dependent to a significant extent on the economy of Israel. The recovery that started in the last months of 2009 has continued to the present. This has resulted in our customer base, both in the retail and in the wholesale markets, expanding their purchases from us, both in quantities and by purchasing higher cost food products. A deterioration of the economic situation in Israel may erode the real wages and lower the buying power of our potential customers. This in turn may adversely affect our activities and business results. 10 In addition, in 2011 to mid-2012 our business results were adversely affected by the national protest against the cost of food products, pressuring us to decrease our selling prices to our customers. The pressure from such protests decreased during 2012 and 2013. However, the result of such protests continues to affect the food industry and the level of pricing. An ongoing consumer demand for price reductions may have a material adverse effect on us and our financial performance. We may be affected by political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, our principle offices are located in central Israel and some of our officers, employees and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel have a direct influence on us. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially and adversely affect our operations. During the winter of 2012, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas, a militia group and political party operating in the Gaza Strip. This conflict involved missile strikes by Hamas against civilian targets in various parts of Israel and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Ongoing or revived hostilities related to Israel may have a material adverse effect on our business and on our share price. The recent revolutions and political uncertainty in surrounding countries, including Egypt and Syira, are affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political relationships that exist between Israel and these countries, and have raised concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict. In addition, it is widely believed that Iran, which has previously threatened to attack Israel, has been stepping up its efforts to achieve nuclear capability. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. The tension between Israel and Iran and/or these groups may escalate in the future and turn violent, which could affect the Israeli economy generally and us in particular. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and, in addition, may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to reserve duty. Any disruption in our operations may harm our business. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, several Arab countries restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. From time to time pro-Arab organizations in various locations around the world promote local boycotts of products from Israel. Prompted by political, religious or other factors, these and other restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses may affect our financial condition and results of operations. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against us, our officers and directors who are based in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. The majority of our officers and present directors reside outside of the United States and most of our operations and assets, and the assets of these persons, are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against us, our directors or our officers under Federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and Israel would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions initiated in Israel. 11 Our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international business. We purchase food products from over 150 suppliers located around the world. Therefore, we are subject to certain risks that are inherent in an international business. These include, but are not limited to: · varying regulatory restrictions on sales of our products to certain markets and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs, customs, duties, quotas and other trade barriers; · difficulties in managing foreign operations and foreign distribution partners; · longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · political risks; · foreign exchange controls which may restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; · export and import restrictions or prohibitions, and delays from customs brokers or government agencies; · seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. Depending on the countries involved, any or all of the foregoing factors could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 