D. Risk Factors Our shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. We are in an industry comprised of numerous competitors and aggressive pricing dynamics. We are in a highly competitive industry. We compete on a global basis to provide electronics manufacturing services and solutions to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the consumer, communications, enterprise computing, industrial, aerospace and defense, healthcare and green technology markets. Our competitors include major domestic and foreign companies such as Benchmark Electronics, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Sanmina-SCI Corporation, as well as smaller EMS companies that often have a regional, product, service or industry specific focus. In addition, original design manufacturers (ODMs), companies that provide internally designed products and manufacturing services to OEMs, continue to increase their share of outsourced manufacturing services across several markets and product groups, including personal computer motherboards, notebook and desktop computers, and smartphones and cell phones. While we have not historically participated in these segments, and we have not, to date, encountered significant direct competition from ODMs in the end markets in which we participate, we anticipate competition with ODMs will increase if our business in these markets grows, particularly in smartphones, or if ODMs expand into our primary end markets. We also face indirect competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and prospective customers, as these companies could choose to manufacture products internally rather than to outsource to EMS providers, particularly where internal excess capacity exists. Some of our competitors have greater scale and a greater production presence in lower-cost geographies, as well as a broader service offering than we have. While we have increased the capacity we have in lower-cost regions over the past several years, lower-cost regions may not provide the same operational benefits that they have in the past as these regions have also experienced excess capacity. As a result, our industry is continually responding to aggressive pricing pressure and other competitive pressures. Additionally, our current or potential competitors may also increase or shift their presence in new lower-cost regions to try to offset the continuous competitive pressure or develop or acquire services comparable or superior to those we develop, combine or merge to form larger competitors, or adapt more quickly than we will to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition has caused and will continue to cause pricing pressures, increased working capital requirements, reduced profit or loss of market share (from both program and customer disengagements), any of which could materially and adversely affect us. The weak global economic environment will also increase the competitive environment in all these areas which could impact our profitability. In addition, the North American and Asian EMS industries have excess manufacturing capacity which may trigger EMS providers to expand into new and each other's end markets. These factors have exerted and will continue to exert additional pressures on pricing for components and services, thereby increasing the competitive pressures in the EMS industry. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on a limited number of customers and end markets, primarily within the consumer, communications and enterprise computing markets, for a substantial portion of our revenue. A decline in revenue from these customers or end markets or the loss of a large customer could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. During 2009, one customer from our consumer end market individually represented more than 10% of our total revenue, and our top 10 customers represented 71% of total revenue. During 2008, we had no individual customer that represented more than 10% 5 of our total revenue, and our top 10 customers represented 63% of total revenue. Our largest customer, Research in Motion, or RIM, represented 17% of total revenue in 2009. Our recent success in the smartphone market, driven primarily by new program wins from RIM, has increased our customer concentration as a percentage of total revenue. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. To reduce this reliance, we have been targeting new customers and new services in our traditional segments, as well as new markets such as industrial, aerospace and defense, healthcare and green technology markets. We may also pursue acquisition opportunities to further diversify our revenue or customer base, although there can be no assurance that any acquisition will increase revenue or reduce our customer concentration. Acquisitions are also subject to integration risk and volumes and margins could be lower than we anticipated. As we pursue opportunities in new markets, we may encounter challenges as our knowledge or experience may be limited in these new markets or technologies. Although we generally enter into master supply agreements with our customers, the level of business to be transacted under those agreements is not guaranteed. Instead, we bid on a project by project basis and typically have supply contracts or purchase orders in place for a specific project. We are dependent on customers to fulfill the terms associated with these orders and/or contracts. In addition, some of our customers routinely reduce or delay the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us. There is no assurance that present or future large customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the volume of manufacturing services they order from us, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Significant reductions in, or the loss of, revenue from any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, the ramping of new program wins from new or existing customers can take from several months to more than a year before production starts. During this start-up period, these programs are subject to significant change or outright cancellation, in contrast to the initial expectations at the time the new business was awarded, due to changes in end-market demand or changes in product viability in the marketplace. We are dependent on customers who operate in highly competitive markets and the inability of our customers to succeed in their markets can adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The end markets we serve can experience major swings in demand which, in turn, can significantly impact our operations. Our financial performance depends on our customers' ability to compete and succeed in their markets, which could be affected by global economic conditions. The majority of our customers' products are characterized by rapid changes in technologies, increased standardization of technologies and shortening of product lifecycles. In many instances, our customers have experienced severe revenue erosion, pricing and margin pressures, and excess inventories during the past few years. We have recently increased the amount of our business in the consumer segment, particularly in smartphones, which is characterized by shorter product lifecycles, significant increases or decreases in program volumes based on strength in end-market demand, rapid changes in consumer preferences for these products and devices, and greater ease in shifting these products among EMS competitors. The increased exposure to this segment may make revenue more volatile and could result in increased risk to our financial results. We are operating in a weak and uncertain global economic environment. Although the global economy has recovered somewhat from the recent economic and financial crisis, the economic environment remains uncertain. This uncertainty has resulted in lower volumes for the products we manufacture and low end market visibility for our customers. This environment can pose significant risk to our business due to weaker demand, customer consolidation or customer financial stress or bankruptcy. The global economic conditions and credit environment may well accelerate or exacerbate the effect of the various risk factors described in this Annual Report, as well as result in other unforeseen events that will affect our business and financial condition. 6 We may encounter difficulties expanding and/or restructuring our operations which could adversely affect our operating results. As we expand our business, enter into new market segments and products, acquire new businesses or capabilities, transfer our business from one region to another or restructure our operations, we may encounter difficulties that result in higher than expected costs associated with such activities and customer dissatisfaction with our performance. Potential difficulties related to our growth and/or operational restructuring could include: •lack of trained personnel to manage the operations and customer contracts appropriately; •maintaining customer, supplier, employee and other favorable business relationships during a period of transition; •effective training of staff to manage new customers and products; •unanticipated disruptions in our operations which may impact our ability to deliver to the customer on time, to produce quality products and to ensure overall customer satisfaction; •losing programs and customers that reduce their business risk by re-sourcing or dual-multi-sourcing their business with us due to unforeseen disruptions in our operations; and •market share shifts associated with customer consolidation or supplier consolidation. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of growth in new markets or the benefits we expected to realize from our restructuring actions and could adversely affect our business and operating results. We may encounter difficulties completing or integrating our acquisitions which could adversely affect our operating results. We expect to expand our presence in new end markets or expand our capabilities, some of which may occur through acquisitions. These transactions may involve acquisitions of entire companies and/or acquisitions of selected assets from OEMs. Potential difficulties related to our acquisitions include: •integrating acquired operations, systems and businesses; •maintaining customer, supplier, employee or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and restructuring or terminating unfavorable relationships; •addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; •making acquisitions in new end markets or in technologies where our knowledge or experience is limited; •losing customers who want to transfer their business because of the change in ownership; •losing key employees of acquired operations; and •not achieving anticipated business volumes. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including additional revenue, operational synergies and economies of scale. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely affect our business and operating results. Previous acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets at the time of acquisition. Our failure to support the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets in periods subsequent to the acquisitions could require write-downs that adversely affect our operating results. All goodwill from previous acquisitions has been written off. Inherent difficulties in managing capacity utilization and unanticipated changes in customer orders place strains on our planning and supply chain execution and may affect our operating results. Our customers are dependent on EMS providers for new product introductions and rapid response times to meet changes in volume requirements. Most of our customers typically do not commit to firm production schedules for more than 30 to 90 days in advance and we often experience volatility in customer orders. 7 Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue can occur in the last month of the quarter and could be subject to change or cancellation that will affect our quarter-to-quarter results. Accordingly, we cannot always forecast the level of customer orders with certainty. This can make it difficult to order appropriate levels of materials and to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In addition, customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. When customers change production volumes or request different products to be manufactured than what they originally forecasted to us, the unavailability of components and materials for such changes could also impact our revenue and working capital performance. Furthermore, in order to guarantee continuity of supply for many of our customers, we are required to manufacture and hold a specified amount of finished goods in our warehouses. The uncertainty of our customers' end markets, intense competition in our customers' industries and general order volume volatility have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying or canceling the delivery of some of the products we manufacture for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Changes or delays in customer orders could result in higher than expected inventory levels for us. In certain circumstances, we may be required to return the inventory to our suppliers, re-sell the inventory or continue to hold the inventory, any of which may result in our taking additional reserves for the inventory should it become excess or obsolete. Order cancellations and delays could also lower our asset utilization, resulting in higher levels of unproductive assets and lower margins. In some cases, changes in circumstances for a customer could also negatively impact the collectability of receivables or carrying value of our inventory for that customer. On other occasions, customers have required rapid and sudden increases in production, which have placed an excessive burden on our manufacturing capacity. Rapid changes in product ramps and/or the weakening financial condition or deterioration of any single customer's financial condition could prevent us from collecting receivables or realizing the value of inventory on hand. Any of these factors or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competitors with component manufacturing capabilities may have greater opportunities than we do to win additional business from some of our customers. This capability may have the potential to provide a competitor with additional capabilities or cost saving opportunities. We procure all of our components from third-party suppliers. In addition to traditional EMS services, some of our competitors also manufacture some of the components used in the products they assemble. This can include metal or plastic enclosures, connectors, semiconductors, cabling and other components used in the manufacturing of electronics. Those capabilities may provide additional incentives for some customers to do business with those EMS or ODM companies, as there may be additional opportunity to reduce the total costs of their products by using more components and services from one company. If our customers transfer their business to a competitor, we may experience reduced revenue and lower utilization rates. Our customers and competitors are subject to mergers and acquisitions, and similar transactions which can adversely affect our business relationships or the volume of business we conduct with our customers. Future mergers and acquisitions could result in a decrease in demand from our customers or a loss of business to our competitors as customers rationalize their business and consolidate their suppliers. Mergers or consolidation among our competitors could increase their competitive advantage over us, which may also result in a loss of business if customers shift their production. In a weaker economic environment, there may be a higher risk of increased consolidation among our customers or competitors. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We conduct business operations in a number of countries, including countries where tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment or income tax rates are low. We develop our tax position based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions now in effect in the jurisdictions in which we have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations, possibly with retroactive effect. 8 We are subject to tax audits and reviews of historical information by local tax authorities which could result in additional tax expense in future periods relating to prior results. Any such increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on our future earnings and future cash flows. Certain of our subsidiaries provide financing, products and services to, and may from time to time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. Moreover, several jurisdictions in which we operate have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm's length pricing principles, and that contemporaneous documentation must exist to support such pricing. Reviews by tax authorities generally focus on, but are not limited to, the validity of our inter-company transactions, including financing and transfer pricing policies which generally involve subjective areas of taxation and a significant degree of judgment. If any of these tax authorities are successful with their challenges, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subject to interest and penalty charges. In connection with ongoing tax audits in Canada, tax authorities have taken the position that income reported by one of our Canadian subsidiaries from 2001 to 2003 should have been materially higher as a result of certain inter-company transactions. In connection with a tax audit in Brazil, tax authorities have taken the position that income reported by our Brazilian subsidiary in 2004 should have been materially higher as a result of certain inter-company transactions. We believe that we have substantial defenses to the asserted positions and have adequately accrued for any probable potential adverse tax impact. However, there can be no assurance as to the final resolution of these claims and any resulting proceedings, and if these claims and any ensuing proceedings are determined adversely against us, the amounts we may be required to pay could be material. The successful pursuit of these assertions by tax authorities could result in those subsidiaries owing significant amounts of tax, interest and possibly penalties. In addition, we have recognized, and will continue to recognize, the future benefit of certain Brazilian tax losses on the basis that these tax losses can and will be fully utilized in the fiscal period ending on the date of dissolution of our Brazilian subsidiary. We regularly review Brazilian laws and assess the likelihood of the realization of the future benefit of the tax losses. A change to the benefit realizable on these Brazilian losses could result in a substantial increase to our net future tax liabilities. Our results can be affected by limited availability of components. A significant portion of our costs is for the purchase of electronic components. During this time of global economic uncertainty, significant restructuring has occurred in the supply base to adjust to the lower volumes. As a result, an improved demand environment could exacerbate material shortages and impact our ability to meet our customers' demand requirements. All of the products we manufacture or assemble require one or more components that we order from component suppliers. In many cases, there may be only one supplier of a particular component. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production and thus delay revenue relating to all products using that component, or they can cause price increases in the products and services we provide. In the past, we have secured sufficient allocations of constrained components so that revenue has not been materially impacted. At various times in our industry's history, there have been industry-wide shortages of electronic components. Future shortages, or fluctuations in the cost of components, may have a material adverse effect on our business or cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Changes in forecasted volumes or in the products required by our customers can affect our ability to attain components which could impact our results. Additionally, quality or reliability issues at any of our component or materials providers, or financial difficulties that affect their production and ability to supply us with components, could halt or delay production of a customer's product which could adversely impact our operating results. Our customers may be adversely affected by rapid technological changes which may have an adverse impact on their success in their markets and on our business. Many of our customers compete in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. These conditions frequently result in short product lifecycles. Our success will depend largely on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. If technologies or standards supported by our customers' products become 9 obsolete, fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance or are cancelled, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, an accelerating decline in end-market demand for customer-specific proprietary systems in favor of open systems with standardized technologies could have a material adverse impact on our business. The highly competitive nature of our customers' products could also drive consolidation among OEMs, which could result in product line consolidation that could impact our revenue or customer relationships. We are seeking to rapidly expand our services capabilities. We believe OEM customers continue to look to the EMS industry to provide additional supply chain services and capabilities. While we currently provide some of these services, such as design and fulfillment, to a few of our customers, we are focused on significantly increasing these capabilities in the near term. We may pursue this growth through internal development or through acquisitions. Our efforts to expand our services capabilities may not be successful. The failure to increase these services and capabilities could impact our existing business and future business wins. Any failure to successfully manage our international operations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We have facilities in numerous countries, including China, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania, Singapore, Spain and Thailand. During 2009, approximately two-thirds of our revenue was produced from locations outside of North America. We also purchase material from international suppliers for much of our business, including our North American business. We believe that our future growth depends largely on our ability to increase our business and penetration with global OEMs and selective markets, in both higher-cost and lower-cost regions. International operations are subject to inherent risks which may adversely affect us, including: •labor unrest and differences in regulations and statutes governing employee relations; •changes in regulatory requirements; •inflation and rising costs; •difficulty in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; •ability to build infrastructure or new facilities on schedule to support operations; •changes in local tax rates and other potentially adverse tax consequences, including the cost of repatriation of earnings; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including changing import and export regulations, which could erode our profit margins or restrict exports; •adverse changes in trade policies between countries in which we maintain operations; •political instability; •potential restrictions on the transfer of funds; •employee contracts that restrict our flexibility in responding to business downturns; and •foreign exchange risks. Each of the regions in which we operate has a history of promoting foreign investment but could experience economic and political turmoil that could adversely affect us. 10 We have had significant restructuring charges and losses for several years and may experience restructuring charges and losses in future periods. We have a history of recording losses resulting primarily from restructuring charges, the write-down of goodwill and long-lived assets, or the write-down of accounts receivable for customers in bankruptcy. These amounts have varied from period to period. We have undertaken numerous initiatives to restructure and reduce our capacity and cost structures in response to changes in the EMS industry and end-market demand, with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. We will continue to evaluate our operations and may propose additional restructuring actions in the future. Any failure to successfully execute these initiatives, including any delay in effecting these initiatives, can have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Furthermore, we may not be profitable in future periods. Restrictions on our ability to restructure quickly enough can delay the timing and affect the benefits we expect from our restructuring efforts. We have operations in multiple regions around the world. As a result, we are subject to different regulatory requirements and labor laws governing how quickly we are able to reduce manufacturing capacity and terminate related employees. These requirements are particularly stringent in Europe. Restrictions on our ability to close under-utilized facilities have resulted in higher expenses associated with carrying excess capacity and infrastructure while conducting restructuring activities. While it has typically been easier to restructure our operations in certain lower-cost regions, the current global economic conditions may change how governments in all regions regulate restructuring as the weaker demand environment impacts local economies. The speed of our restructuring can also be impeded by delays from our customers related to the timing of their product transfers, which can prevent us from transferring products to our other facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner. Since the restructuring of our plants requires some of our customers to move their production from one of our facilities to another, customers have, and may in the future, use this opportunity to shift their production to competitors' facilities. The complexity of moving our manufacturing base to lower-cost regions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Due to the highly competitive nature of the electronics industry, our customers strive for lower-cost solutions from their EMS providers. Over time, this has resulted in the movement of our production from higher-cost regions such as North America and Western Europe to lower-cost regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. This move has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on current and future results by increasing the risks associated with, among other things, transferring production to new regions where skills or experience may be more limited than in higher-cost regions, incurring higher operating expenses during the transition, incurring additional restructuring costs associated with the decrease in production levels in higher-cost geographies and the risks of operating in new foreign jurisdictions. In certain situations, product transfers have resulted in, and may in the future result in, our inability to retain our existing business or grow future revenue due to execution problems resulting from significant headcount reductions, plant closures and product transfers. We face financial risks due to foreign currency fluctuations. The principal currency in which we conduct our operations is the U.S. dollar. However, some of our subsidiaries transact business in other currencies, such as the Canadian dollar, Thai baht, Malaysian ringgit, Mexican peso, Czech koruna, Singapore dollar, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, Romanian lei and the Euro. The global economic uncertainty has resulted in significant fluctuations of currency rates, particularly in 2008, and may continue to affect profitability going forward. We often enter into hedging transactions to minimize our exposure to foreign currency risks. We may also enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge our balance sheet exposures. Our hedging activity is designed to reduce the variability of our foreign currency costs and consists of contracts to purchase or sell foreign currencies at future dates. These contracts generally extend for periods ranging from one to 15 months. Our hedging transactions may not successfully minimize foreign currency risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 11 Failure of our customers to pay the amounts owed to us in a timely manner may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We generally provide payment terms ranging from 30 to 60 days. As a result, we generate significant accounts receivable from sales to our customers, historically representing 22% to 39% of current assets. Accounts receivable from sales to customers at December 31, 2009 were $828.1 million (December 31, 2008 — $1,074.0 million; and December 31, 2007 — $941.2 million). At December 31, 2009, one customer represented more than 10% of total accounts receivable (December 31, 2008 — two customers each represented more than 10% of total accounts receivable; and December 31, 2007 — no customer represented more than 10% of total accounts receivable). If any of our customers have insufficient liquidity, we could encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by such customers, and we may extend our payment terms or restructure their receivables owed to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our customers will increase the risk of collecting receivables. The ongoing global economic uncertainty could also impact our customers' ability to pay receivables or result in customers going into bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings which could also impact our ability to collect our receivables. We regularly review our accounts receivable valuations and make adjustments when necessary. Our allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2009 was $7.5 million (December 31, 2008 — $13.7 million; and December 31, 2007 — $21.5 million), which represented 1% of the gross accounts receivable balance (December 31, 2008 — 1%; and December 31, 2007 — 2%). We may be required to make larger contributions to our defined benefit plans in the future, which may have an adverse impact on our liquidity and our operating results. We maintain multiple defined benefit plans, as well as supplemental pension plans. Some employees in Canada, Japan and the United Kingdom participate in our defined benefit pension plans. We also have defined contribution plans for our other employees, primarily in Canada and the U.S. Our pension funding policy is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum local statutory funding requirements that are based on actuarial calculations. Our obligations are based on certain assumptions relating to expected plan performance, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets and discount rates. If future trends differ from these assumptions, the amounts we are obligated to contribute to the pension plans may increase. If the financial markets result in returns lower than our assumptions, we may be required to make larger contributions in the future and our pension expense may also increase. The efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected by any delay in delivery from our transportation suppliers, including delays caused by work stoppages and natural disasters. We rely on a variety of common carriers for the transportation of materials and products and for their ability to route these materials and products through various international ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of any important supplier's facility or operations, or at any major port or airport, could result in manufacturing and shipping delays or expediting charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Increased political activism and local economic conditions could impact receipt of materials and product shipments. Natural disasters such as tsunamis and earthquakes, and the severe and dramatic change to historical weather patterns in the regions where our facilities or our suppliers' facilities are located, could have an adverse impact on our ability to deliver products to our customers. Such events could disrupt supply to us, and from us to our customers, and adversely affect our operating results. If our products or services are subject to warranty claims, our business reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant costs. In certain of our sales contracts, we provide warranties against defects or deficiencies in our products, services or designs. A successful claim for damages arising as a result of such defects or deficiencies, for which we are not insured or where the damages exceed our insurance coverage, or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied or limited and for which indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. As we pursue new end markets, 12 warranty requirements will vary and we may be less effective in pricing our products to appropriately capture the warranty costs. We may be unable to keep pace with manufacturing technology changes. We continue to evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new manufacturing processes. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continually develop and market electronics manufacturing services that meet our customers' evolving needs. This could entail investing in new processes or equipment to support new technologies used in our customers' current or future products, and to support their supply chain processes. Additionally, as we pursue business in new end markets where our experience is limited, we may be less effective in adapting to technological change. Our manufacturing and supply chain processes, test development efforts and design capabilities may not be successful. In addition, various industry-specific standards, qualifications and certifications are required to produce certain types of products for our customers. Failure to maintain those certifications could adversely affect our ability to maintain existing levels of business or win new business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property or the intellectual property of others. We believe that certain of our proprietary intellectual property rights and information provide us with a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we have taken, and intend to continue to take, appropriate steps to protect this proprietary information. These steps include signing non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees and other parties, and implementing rigid security measures. Our protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our property or information. There is also a risk that infringement claims may be brought against us, our customers or our suppliers in the future. If an infringement claim is successfully asserted, we may be required to spend significant time and money to develop processes that do not infringe upon the rights of another person or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the owner. We may not be successful in such development, or any such licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could adversely affect us even if we are successful in such litigation. As we pursue business in new end markets, we may be less effective in anticipating the intellectual property risks related to new manufacturing, design and other services. We may not be able to increase revenue if the trend of outsourcing by OEMs slows. Future growth in our revenue includes a dependence on new outsourcing opportunities in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from OEMs. Our future growth will be limited to the extent that these opportunities are not available as a result of OEMs deciding to perform these functions internally or delaying their decision to outsource or our inability to win new contracts. The global economic slowdown has impacted, and may continue to impact, the trend of outsourcing as some customers have reversed, and other customers may reverse, their outsourcing decisions and shift production back to their own facilities to improve their factory utilization. Political pressures or negative sentiment by our customers' customers or local governments may impede the movement of production from one geography to another. These and other factors could adversely affect the rate of outsourcing generally, or adversely affect the rate of outsourcing to EMS providers, such as Celestica. If we are unable to recruit or retain highly skilled personnel, our business could be adversely affected. The recruitment of personnel in the EMS industry is highly competitive. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled executive, technical and management personnel. We generally do not have employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. To date, we have been successful in recruiting and retaining executive, managerial and technical personnel; however, the loss of services of certain of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 13 Compliance with environmental laws and obligations could be costly and impact our operations. We are subject to various federal, state/provincial, local and multi-national environmental laws and regulations. Our environmental management systems and practices have been designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations in a manner consistent with local practice. Maintaining compliance with and responding to increasingly stringent regulations require a significant investment of time and resources and may restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities or to continue production. More complex and stringent environmental legislation continues to be imposed, including laws that place increased responsibility and requirements on the "producers" of electronic equipment and, in turn, their providers and suppliers. Such laws may relate to product inputs (such as hazardous substances and energy consumption) and product use (such as energy efficiency and waste management/recycling). Noncompliance with these requirements could potentially result in substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers and consumers. Where compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their obligations. Our customers are becoming increasingly concerned about issues such as waste management (including recycling), climate change (including the reduction of carbon footprints) and product stewardship, and expect their suppliers to be environmental leaders. Although we strive to meet such customer expectations, such demands may extend beyond our regulatory obligations and significant investments of time and resources may be required to attract and retain customers. We have generally obtained environmental assessment reports, or reviewed recent assessment reports undertaken by others, for most of our manufacturing facilities at the time of acquisition or leasing. Such assessments may not reveal all environmental liabilities and current assessments were not available for all facilities. As well, some of our operations have involved hazardous substances that could cause contamination. Although we may investigate, remediate or monitor soil and groundwater contamination at certain of our owned sites, we may not be aware of or address all such conditions and we may incur significant costs to do such work in the future. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, environmental laws impose liability for the costs of removal, remediation or risk assessment of hazardous or toxic substances on an owner, occupier or operator of real estate, even if such person or company was unaware of or not responsible for the discharge or migration of such substances. In some instances where soil or groundwater contamination existed prior to our ownership or occupation, landlords or former owners may have retained some contractual responsibility or regulatory liability, but this may not provide sufficient protection for us to avoid liability. Third-party claims for damages or personal injury are also possible. Moreover, current remediation, mitigation and risk assessment measures may not be adequate to comply with future laws. The efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected by any disruptions from our third-party IT providers. We have outsourced certain IT systems support, which includes database management, as well as application development and support for our production control and inventory management systems. If these third-party providers are unable to fulfill their obligations on a timely and reliable basis, we may experience disruptions to our operations. Any inefficiencies or production down times resulting from such disruptions could have a negative impact on our ability to meet customers' orders, resulting in a delay or decrease to our revenue and our operating margins. Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct our business. Our credit agreement contains financial and operating covenants that limit our management's discretion with respect to certain business matters. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt, create liens or other encumbrances, change the nature of our business, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, and merge or consolidate with other entities. At February 22, 2010, we were in compliance with these covenants. Based on the required financial ratios at December 31, 2009, we had full access to our $200 million credit facility. 14 We could face increased financial risk due to the potential non-performance by counterparties, including but not limited to financial institutions, customers and suppliers. The potential occurrence of default by a counterparty on its contractual obligations may result in a financial loss to us. For our financial markets activity, we mitigate the risk of financial loss from defaults by dealing with counterparties we believe are creditworthy. The global economic uncertainty has impacted, and we expect will continue to impact, the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers. An interruption in supply from a raw materials supplier, especially for single-sourced components, could have a significant impact on our operations and on our customers, if we are unable to deliver finished products in a timely manner. We will continue to closely monitor our customers' and suppliers' financial condition and creditworthiness. The interest of our controlling shareholder may conflict with the interest of the remaining holders of our subordinate voting shares. Onex Corporation, or Onex, owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding multiple voting shares and less than 1% of the outstanding subordinate voting shares. The number of shares owned by Onex, together with those shares Onex has the right to vote, represents 69% of the voting interest in Celestica and less than 1% of the voting interest in our outstanding subordinate voting shares. Accordingly, Onex exercises a controlling influence over our business and affairs and has the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders where our shares vote together as a single class. Onex has the power to elect our directors and its approval is required for significant corporate transactions such as certain amendments to our articles of incorporation, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and plans of arrangement. Onex's voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of our company that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. Under our credit agreement, it is an event of default entitling our lenders to demand repayment if Onex ceases to control Celestica unless the shares of Celestica become widely held ("widely held" meaning that no one person owns more than 20% of the votes). Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Onex and one of our directors, owns multiple voting shares of Onex, carrying the right to elect a majority of the Onex board of directors. Mr. Schwartz, therefore, effectively controls our affairs. The interests of Onex and Mr. Schwartz may differ from the interests of the remaining holders of subordinate voting shares. For additional information about our principal shareholders, see Item 7(A), "Major Shareholders." Onex has, from time to time, issued debentures exchangeable and redeemable under certain circumstances for our subordinate voting shares, entered into forward equity agreements with respect to subordinate voting shares, sold shares (after exchanging multiple voting shares for subordinate voting shares), or redeemed these debentures through the delivery of subordinate voting shares and could do so in the future. These sales could impact our share price, have consequences on our outstanding debt and change our ownership structure. We face securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management's attention and resources and negative publicity. Celestica has been named as a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit in the United States which asserts claims for violations of federal securities laws on behalf of persons who acquired our securities between January 27, 2005 and January 30, 2007. Celestica has been named as a defendant in a similar purported class action brought in Canada under Canadian law. Our former Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers were also named as defendants in these lawsuits. In a consolidated amended U.S. complaint, the plaintiffs have added one of our directors and Onex as defendants. These lawsuits seek unspecified damages. All defendants have filed motions with the U.S. court to dismiss the amended complaint. Those motions are pending. Although we believe the allegations in these claims are without merit and we intend to defend these claims vigorously, these lawsuits could result in substantial costs to us, divert management's attention and resources from our operations and negatively affect our public image and reputation. Potential unenforceability of civil liabilities and judgments. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. A significant number of our directors, controlling persons and officers are residents of Canada. Also, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect 15 service within the United States upon those directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States or to realize in the United States upon a judgment of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Changes in accounting standards enacted by the standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our reported revenue, profitability and financial condition. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and are reconciled to U.S. GAAP. The accounting standards are revised periodically and/or expanded upon by the standard-setting bodies. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards and to comply with revised interpretations issued from time to time by these authoritative bodies, which include the Canadian Accounting Standards Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Canadian Accounting Standards Board announced that it will adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards for publicly accountable enterprises in Canada, effective 2011. The adoption of these changes could adversely affect our reported revenue, profitability or financial condition. Compliance with these changes could also increase our financial and accounting costs. Shares eligible for public sale could adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our subordinate voting shares in the public market, or the issuance of subordinate voting shares upon the exercise of stock options or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. At February 22, 2010, we had 210,992,933 subordinate voting shares and 18,946,368 multiple voting shares outstanding. All of the subordinate voting shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates (as defined in the U.S. Securities Act). Shares held by our affiliates include all of the multiple voting shares and 1,451,320 subordinate voting shares held by Onex. An affiliate may not sell shares in the United States unless the sale is registered under the U.S. Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. Rule 144 of the U.S. Securities Act permits our affiliates to sell our shares in the United States subject to volume limitations and requirements relating to manner of sale, notice of sale and availability of current public information with respect to us. In addition, as of February 22, 2010, there were approximately 26,000,000 subordinate voting shares reserved for issuance under our employee share purchase and option plans and for director compensation, including outstanding options to purchase approximately 10,700,000 subordinate voting shares. Moreover, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, we may issue an unlimited number of additional subordinate voting shares without further shareholder approval (subject to any required stock exchange approvals). As a result, a substantial number of our subordinate voting shares will be eligible for sale in the public market at various times in the future. The issuances and/or sale of such shares would dilute the holdings of our shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. Acts of terrorism and other political and economic developments could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures, conflicts in the Middle East and Asia, security issues at the U.S./Mexico border related to illegal immigration or criminal activities associated with illegal drugs activities, strained international relations arising from these conflicts and the related decline in consumer confidence may hinder our ability to do business. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and could affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. These events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and customer confidence and spending in particular, which in turn could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The impact of these events on the volatility of the U.S. and world financial markets could 16 increase the volatility of the market price of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers and suppliers. 