ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this report and the Group’s other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Group. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Group faces. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the Group or otherwise, may also impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below or such other risks actually occur, the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in interest rates may hurt the Group’s business. Changes in interest rates are one of the principal market risks affecting the Group. The Group’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Group’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve Board). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans and investment securities, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. 19 The Group is at risk because most of its business is conducted in Puerto Rico, which is experiencing a downturn in the economy and in the real estate market. Because most of the Group’s business activities are conducted in Puerto Rico and a significant portion of its credit exposure is concentrated in Puerto Rico, the Group’s profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by an extended economic slowdown, adverse political or economic developments in Puerto Rico or the effects of a natural disaster, all of which could result in a reduction in loan originations, an increase in non-performing assets, an increase in foreclosure losses on mortgage loans, and a reduction in the value of its loans and loan servicing portfolio. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is in the sixth year of economic recession, and its government faces a significant fiscal deficit. The Commonwealth’s access to municipal bond market and its credit ratings depend, in part, on achieving a balanced budget. Although the economic recession moderated in calendar year 2011 and the size of the Commonwealth’s deficit has decreased, the Puerto Rico economy continues to struggle. On August 8, 2011, Moody’s lowered Puerto Rico’s credit rating with a negative outlook. In taking such action, Moody’s stated that the downgrade reflects the continued financial deterioration of the Commonwealth’s severely underfunded government retirement systems, continued weak economic trend, and weak finances, with a historical trend of funding budget gaps with borrowing. Moody’s negative outlook reflects the stress that the Commonwealth will face in the next few years as it continues to address the underfunding of the retirement systems from an already weak financial and economic position. A period of reduced economic growth or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of defaults in commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. A recession may have a significant adverse impact on the Group’s net interest income and fee income. The Group may also experience significant losses on the loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. The decline in Puerto Rico’s economy has had an adverse effect in the credit quality of the Group’s loan portfolios as delinquency rates have increased in the short-term and may continue to increase until the economy stabilizes. Among other things, the Group has experienced an increase in the level of non-performing assets and loan loss provision, which adversely affects the Group’s profitability. If the decline in economic activity continues, additional increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses could be necessary, and there could be further adverse effects on the Group’s profitability. The reduction in consumer spending may also continue to impact growth in the Group’s other interest and non-interest revenue sources. The level of real estate prices in Puerto Rico had been more stable than in other U.S. markets, but the current economic environment has accelerated the devaluation of properties and has increased portfolio delinquency when compared with previous periods. Additional economic weakness in Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland could further pressure residential property values, loan delinquencies, foreclosures and the cost of repossessing and disposing of real estate collateral. Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the fair value of assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or equity prices. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to the Group is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest 20 income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. The Group uses an asset-liability management software to project future movements in the balance sheet and income statement. The starting point of the projections generally corresponds to the actual values of the balance sheet on the date of the simulations. These simulations are highly complex, and use many simplifying assumptions. The Group is subject to interest rate risk because of the following factors: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice slower than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline. • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, the Group may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, basis risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices that may not move in tandem. • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently. • The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, we would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant impact on mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios. • Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of financial assets and financial liabilities, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings. In limiting interest rate risk to an acceptable level, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. The Group may suffer losses or experience lower spreads than anticipated in initial projections as management implements strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. The hedging transactions that the Group enters into may not be effective in managing the exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk. The Group has offered certificates of deposit with an option tied to the performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock market index and uses derivatives, such as option agreements with major broker-dealer companies, to manage the exposure to changes in the value of the index. The Group may also use derivatives, such as interest rate swaps and options on interest rate swaps, to manage part of its exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. The derivative instruments that the Group may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (1) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost; (2) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder; and (3) legal risk, which is the risk that the Group is unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose the Group to losses. 21 If the counterparty to a derivative contract fails to perform, the Group’s credit risk is equal to the net fair value of the contract. Although the Group deals with counterparties that have high quality credit ratings at the time the Group enters into the counterparty relationships, there can be no assurances that the counterparties will have the ability to perform under their contracts. If the counterparty fails to perform, including as a result of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the counterparty, the Group would incur losses as a result. The Group may incur a significant impairment charge in connection with a decline in the market value of its investment securities portfolio. A substantial part of the Group’s earnings come from the Treasury business segment, which encompasses the investment securities portfolio. The determination of fair value for investment securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. In addition, the Group utilizes and reviews information obtained from third-party sources to measure fair values. Third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining securities values, and different third parties may provide different prices for securities. Moreover, depending upon, among other things, the measurement date of the security, the subsequent sale price of the security may be different from its recorded fair value. These differences may be significant, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption. When the fair value of a security declines, management must assess whether the decline is “other-than-temporary.” When the decline in fair value is deemed “other-than-temporary,” the amortized cost basis of the investment security is reduced to its then current fair value. The term “other-than-temporary impairment” is not intended to indicate that the decline is permanent, but indicates that the prospects for a near-term recovery of value is not necessarily favorable, or that there is a lack of evidence to support a realizable value equal to or greater than the carrying value of the investment. Any portion of a decline in value associated with credit loss is recognized in income with the remaining noncredit-related component being recognized in other comprehensive income. A credit loss is determined by assessing whether the amortized cost basis of the security will be recovered, by comparing the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the security, computed using original yield as the discount rate, to the amortized cost basis of the security. The shortfall of the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected in relation to the amortized cost basis is considered to be the “credit loss.” Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition. Subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect the Group’s future results of operations, as they are based on the difference between the sale prices received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. The review of whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary considers numerous factors and many of these factors involve significant judgment. Market conditions and actions by governmental authorities may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for the Group to analyze its investment portfolio. The Group’s success depends in part on its ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie its mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) portfolio. Changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of MBS that the Group may purchase and any MBS that it may hold at a given time. As part of its overall portfolio risk management, the Group analyzes interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on its investment portfolio. In conducting this analysis, the Group depends on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. The Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan announced by the U.S. Treasury in February 2009, the “Operation Twist” program announced by the Federal Reserve Board on September 21, 2011 and the expansion of HARP announced by FHFA, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae on October 24, 2011 could cause an increase in prepayment rates. On February 1, 2012, President Obama proposed legislation to expand HARP in order to allow a greater number of homeowners to refinance their mortgages at historically low interest rates. If the dislocations in the 22 residential mortgage market, recent or future government actions, or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, the Group’s ability to (i) assess the market value of its investment portfolio, (ii) implement its hedging strategies, and (iii) adopt techniques to reduce its prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected. This could adversely affect the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The Group’s risk management policies, procedures and systems may be inadequate to mitigate all risks inherent in the Group’s various businesses. A comprehensive risk management function is essential to the financial and operational success of the Group’s business. The types of risk the Group monitors and seeks to manage include, but are not limited to, operational risk, market risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Group has adopted various policies, procedures and systems to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that those policies, procedures and systems are adequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in the Group’s various businesses. In addition, the Group’s businesses and the markets in which the Group operates are continuously evolving. If the Group fails to fully understand the implications of changes in the Group’s business or the financial markets and to adequately or timely enhance the risk framework to address those changes, the Group could incur losses. A prolonged economic downturn or recession or a continuing decline in the real estate market would likely result in an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and in a reduction in loan origination activity which would adversely affect the Group’s financial results. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of lower volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline, and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans that the Group may originate in the future and may adversely impact its business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. A significant trend of decreasing values in certain housing segments in Puerto Rico has also been noted. There is a risk that a reduction in housing values could negatively impact the Group’s loss levels on the mortgage portfolio because the value of the homes underlying the loans is a primary source of repayment in the event of foreclosure. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm the Group’s ability to sell loans, the price received on the sale of such loans, and the value of the mortgage loan portfolio, all of which could have a negative impact on the Group’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the Group’s collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. A continuing decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland and ongoing disruptions in the capital markets may harm the Group’s investment securities and wholesale funding portfolios. The housing market in the U.S. is undergoing a correction of historic proportions. After a period of several years of booming housing markets, fueled by liberal credit conditions and rapidly rising property values, the sector has been in the midst of a substantial correction since early 2007. The general level of property values in the U.S., as measured by several indices widely followed by the market, has declined. These declines are the result of ongoing market adjustments that are aligning property values with income levels and home inventories. The supply of homes in the market has increased substantially, and additional property value decreases may be required to clear the overhang of excess inventory in the U.S. market. 23 The Group’s business could be adversely affected if the Group cannot maintain access to stable funding sources. The Group’s business requires continuous access to various funding sources. While the Group is able to fund its operations through deposits as well as through advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and other alternative sources, the Group’s business is significantly dependent upon other wholesale funding sources, such as repurchase agreements and brokered deposits. While most of the Group’s repurchase agreements have been structured with initial terms to maturity of between three and ten years, most of the counterparties have the right to exercise put options before the contractual maturities. Brokered deposits are typically sold through an intermediary to small retail investors. The Group’s ability to continue to attract brokered deposits is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the Group’s credit rating and the relative interest rates that the Group is prepared to pay for these liabilities. Brokered deposits are generally considered a less stable source of funding than core deposits obtained through retail bank branches. Investors in brokered deposits are generally more sensitive to interest rates and will generally move funds from one depository institution to another based on small differences in interest rates offered on deposits. Although the Group expects to have continued access to credit from the foregoing sources of funds, there can be no assurance that such financing sources will continue to be available or will be available on favorable terms. In a period of financial disruption, or if negative developments occur with respect to the Group, the availability and cost of funding sources could be adversely affected. In that event, the Group’s cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing the net interest income, or the Group may need to dispose of a portion of the investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in realizing a loss or experiencing other adverse accounting consequences upon the dispositions. The Group’s efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other reductions in liquidity driven by the Group or market related events. In the event that such sources of funds are reduced or eliminated and the Group is not able to replace them on a cost-effective basis, the Group may be forced to curtail or cease its loan origination business and treasury activities, which would have a material adverse effect on operations and financial condition. The Group’s decisions regarding credit risk and the allowance for loan and lease losses may materially and adversely affect the Group’s business and results of operations. Making loans is an essential element of the Group’s business, and there is a risk that the loans will not be repaid. This default risk is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic or industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. The Group strives to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The Group periodically determines the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors such as default frequency, internal risk ratings, expected future cash collections, loss recovery rates and general economic factors, among others, as are the size and diversity of individual credits. The Group’s methodology for measuring the adequacy of the allowance relies on several key elements which include a specific allowance for identified problem loans, a general systematic allowance, and an unallocated allowance. Although the Group believes that its allowance for loan and lease losses is currently sufficient given the constant monitoring of the risk inherent in the loan portfolio, there is no precise method of predicting loan losses and 24 therefore the Group always faces the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses will be required. In addition, the FDIC as well as the OCFI may require the Group to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses would result in a decrease of net earnings and capital and could hinder the Group’s ability to pay dividends. The Group is subject to default and other risks in connection with mortgage loan originations. From the time that the Group funds the mortgage loans originated to the time that they are sold, the Group is generally at risk for any mortgage loan defaults. Once the Group sells the mortgage loans, the risk of loss from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures passes to the purchaser or insurer of the mortgage loans. However, in the ordinary course of business, the Group makes representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers of mortgage loans relating to the validity of such loans. If there is a breach of any of these representations or warranties, the Group may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the mortgage loan. In addition, the Group incurs higher liquidity risk with respect to the non-conforming mortgage loans originated by the Group, because of the lack of a favorable secondary market in which to sell them. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the Group’s profitability. The Group faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits and assets to manage. The competition in originating loans and attracting assets comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, investment advisors, broker-dealers, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. The Group will encounter greater competition as it expands its operations. Increased competition may require the Group to increase the rates paid on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans which could adversely affect the Group’s profitability. The Group may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the FDIC-assisted acquisition. The success of the FDIC-assisted acquisition will depend on, among other things, the Group’s ability to realize anticipated cost benefits in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the Group’s existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If the Group is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Additionally, the Group made fair value estimates of certain assets and liabilities in recording the acquisition. Actual values of these assets and liabilities could differ from the Group’s estimates, which could result in not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The Group cannot assure that the FDIC-assisted acquisition will have positive results, including results relating to: correctly assessing the asset quality of the assets acquired; management attention and resources; the amount of longer-term cost savings; being able to profitably deploy funds acquired in the transaction; or the overall performance of the combined business. The Group’s future growth and profitability depend, in part, on the ability to successfully manage the combined operations. Given the continued economic recession in Puerto Rico, notwithstanding the shared-loss agreements with the FDIC with respect to certain Eurobank assets that the Group acquired, the Group may continue to experience increased credit costs or need to take additional markdowns and make additional provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses on the assets and loans acquired that could adversely affect the Group’s financial condition and results of operations in the future. There is no assurance that other unanticipated costs or losses will not be incurred. To the extent credit deterioration occurs in covered loans after the date of acquisition, the Group would record an allowance for loan and lease losses. Also, the Group would record an increase in the FDIC loss-share 25 indemnification asset for the expected reimbursement from the FDIC under the shared-loss agreements. For the year ended December 31, 2011, there have been deviations between actual and expected cash flows in several pools of loans acquired under the FDIC-assisted acquisition. The Group continues to evaluate these deviations to assess whether there has been additional deterioration since the acquisition on specific pools. For more information, please refer to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Loans that the Group acquired in the FDIC-assisted acquisition may not be covered by the shared-loss agreements if the FDIC determines that the Group has not adequately performed under these agreements or if the shared-loss agreements have ended. Although the FDIC has agreed to reimburse the Group for 80% of qualifying losses on covered loans, the Group is not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to such loans. Also, the FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for loan and lease losses if the shared-loss agreements are not performed by the Group in accordance with their terms. Additionally, the shared-loss agreements have limited terms. Therefore, any charge-offs that the Group experiences after the terms of the shared-loss agreements have ended would not be recoverable from the FDIC. Certain provisions of the shared-loss agreements entered into with the FDIC may have anti-takeover effects and could limit the Group’s ability to engage in certain strategic transactions that the Group’s Board of Directors believes would be in the best interests of shareholders. The FDIC’s agreement to bear 80% of qualifying losses on single family residential loans for ten years and commercial loans for five years is a significant asset of the Group and a feature of the FDIC-assisted acquisition without which the Group would not have entered into the transaction. The Group’s agreement with the FDIC requires that the Group receive prior FDIC consent, which may be withheld by the FDIC in its sole discretion, prior to the Group or the Group’s shareholders engaging in certain transactions. If any such transaction is completed without prior FDIC consent, the FDIC would have the right to discontinue the loss sharing arrangement. Among other things, prior FDIC consent is required for (a) a merger or consolidation of the Group with or into another company if the Group’s shareholders will own less than 2/3 of the combined company and (b) a sale of shares by one or more of the Group’s shareholders that will effect a change in control of the Bank, as determined by the FDIC with reference to the standards set forth in the Change in Bank Control Act (generally, the acquisition of between 10% and 25% the Group’s voting securities where the presumption of control is not rebutted, or the acquisition of more than 25% the Group’s voting securities). Such a sale by shareholders may occur beyond the Group’s control. If the Group or any shareholder desires to enter into any such transaction, there can be no assurances that the FDIC would grant its consent in a timely manner, without conditions, or at all. If one of these transactions were to occur without prior FDIC consent and the FDIC withdrew its loss share protection, there could be a material adverse impact on the Group. Loans that the Group acquired in the FDIC-assisted acquisition may be subject to impairment. Although the loan portfolios acquired by the Group were initially accounted for at fair value, there is no assurance that such loans will not become impaired, which may result in additional provision for loan and lease losses related to these portfolios. The fluctuations in economic conditions, including those related to the Puerto Rico residential, commercial real estate, and construction markets, may increase the level of provision for credit losses that the Group makes to its loan portfolio and portfolios acquired in the FDIC-assisted acquisition, and consequently, reduce its net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on the Group’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. 26 The Group operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Group’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of the Group’s operations. Because the Group’s business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Group are subject to regular modification and change. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act has a broad impact on the wealth management industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes, such as: (1) enhanced resolution authority of troubled and failing banks and their holding companies; (2) enhanced lending limits strengthening the existing limits on a depository institution’s credit exposure to one borrower; (3) increased capital and liquidity requirements; (4) increased regulatory examination fees; (5) changes to assessments to be paid to the FDIC for federal deposit insurance; (6) prohibiting bank holding companies, such as the Group, from including in regulatory Tier 1 capital future issuances of trust preferred securities or other hybrid debt and equity securities; and (7) numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, the financial services industry. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act established a new framework for systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC. It also creates a new consumer financial services regulator, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which assumed most of the consumer financial services regulatory responsibilities that were exercised by federal banking regulators and other agencies. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act addresses many corporate governance and executive compensation matters that affect most U.S. publicly traded companies, including the Group. Given that many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are being implemented over time and are subject to implementing regulations, the full extent of the impact that such requirements will have on the Group’s operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of the Group’s business activities, require changes to certain of the Group’s business practices, impose upon the Group more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect the Group’s business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Group’s operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: • a reduction in the Group’s ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; • increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; • the limitation on the Group’s ability to raise capital through the use of trust preferred securities as these securities may no longer be included as Tier I capital going forward; and • the limitation on the Group’s ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. Further, the Group may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact the Group’s results of operations and financial condition. While the Group cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on the Group, these changes could be materially adverse to the Group’s investors. 27 Legislative and other measures that may be taken by Puerto Rico governmental authorities could materially increase the Group’s tax burden or otherwise adversely affect the Group’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Group operates an international banking entity pursuant to the International Banking Center Regulatory Act of Puerto Rico that provides the Group with significant tax advantages. The international banking entity has the benefits of exemptions from Puerto Rico income taxes on interest earned on, or gain realized from the sale of, non-Puerto Rico assets, including U.S. government obligations and certain mortgage-backed securities. This exemption has allowed the Group to have effective tax rates significantly below the maximum statutory tax rates. In the past, the legislature of Puerto Rico has considered proposals to curb the tax benefits afforded to international banking entities. In the event legislation passed in Puerto Rico to eliminate or modify the tax exemption enjoyed by international banking entities, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the Group, including increasing the tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting the Group’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect the Group’s financial statements. The Group’s financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time the Group is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting developments that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in the Group’s annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on the Group’s financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that the Group is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that it applies to the consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material effect on the Group’s financial condition and results of operations. Competition in attracting talented people could adversely affect the Group’s operations. The Group depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel and the Group relies heavily on its management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect the operations. The Group’s success to date has been influenced strongly by the ability to attract and retain senior management experienced in banking and wealth management. Retention of senior managers and appropriate succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of the Group’s strategies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 