Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and our business. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should be able to bear the complete loss of your investment. We also caution you that this Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements that are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management. Future events and circumstances and our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the risks described below, the other information in this Form 10-K, the documents incorporated by reference herein and the risk factors discussed in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission when evaluating our company and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of the money paid to buy our common stock. 5 We cannot reliably project our continued revenues, and we expect to incur significant losses for an indefinite period of time. Our video phone business involves the continued development of a new product line with no market penetration, in an undeveloped market sector. The extent and timing of our revenues depends on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our products, and the degree of competition we face from similar products. We cannot predict to what extent our video phone product will produce revenues, or whether we will ever reach profitability. We also cannot predict when, and to what extent, competition will emerge. If we are unable to achieve significant levels of recurring revenue from our video phone business, our losses will likely continue indefinitely. If this occurs, the market price of our common stock and our viability as a going concern could suffer. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced recurring losses from operations and at December 31, 2008 had an accumulated deficit of $270,857,000, a stockholder’s deficiency of $8,190,000 and a working capital deficit of $8,490,000 that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have also experienced severe cash shortfalls, deferred payment of some of our operating expenses, and shut down operations for a period of time in early 2008 to conserve our remaining cash. At least in the short term, we do not expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and will likely need to secure additional financing and to increase product sales. No assurances can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary cash for us to operate as a going concern, and further curtailment of our operations could be necessary. We are subject to complex and changing rules and regulations concerning corporate governance and financial accounting standards, which require significant resources and may affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct business. We are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which imposes extensive corporate governance measures and comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements. The scope and complexity of these rules, regulations and other applicable requirements demand significant time, expertise and resources and has increased the cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. The demands of this regulatory regime impact the way we conduct our business and may negatively affect our operations. Furthermore, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), including those affecting the accounting for complex financial transactions, have been the subject of change as well as frequent review and interpretation by the SEC, as well as by national and international accounting standards bodies. Such changes, reviews and interpretations may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations, including the results of transactions entered into before the effective date of the changes. We identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to remediate the material weakness could negatively impact our business. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. When conducting its annual assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal control systems, our management determined that a material weakness existed in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. It is management’s assessment that we lack sufficient internal expertise with GAAP related to the accounting and reporting of complex financial transactions. Our limited resources, as well as our focus and efforts on our solvency rather than financial reporting, contributed to this material weakness. The staff additions we would need to make to maintain internal GAAP expertise to assist with the accounting and reporting of complex financial transactions in accordance with compliance guidelines are costly and will negatively impact future financial results. In addition, there is no assurance that the necessary resources required to remedy our material weakness will be available, and even if they are available there is no assurance that we will be able to conclude that our reporting systems are appropriately designed or effective, or that a material weakness will not be found in our internal controls over financial reporting, which could result in a material misstatement in future financial statements. We have historically been reliant primarily on one customer We have been heavily dependent on one customer, Aequus Technologies, for the majority of our revenue. Recently we have had disputes with Aequus related to its failure to pay amounts owed to us. In October 2008, Aequus failed to pay to us approximately $1 million we were owed for the purchase of video phones, and as a result we terminated our reseller agreement with Aequus. As a result our operating results have been adversely affected, and our ability to pay all or any obligated payments have been jeopardized, and while we are seeking other significant customers for video phones our efforts in this regard may not be successful. In connection with our anticipated completion of the Private Placement, we expect to enter into a commercial relationship with ACN pursuant to which we will design and sell video phones to ACN and will provide software development work to ACN. As a result, in the future, we may be focused and heavily dependent on this customer. If our efforts with this customer do not lead to significant sales our ability to continue to operate our business may also be placed in jeopardy. 6 We are dependent on a single line of business that currently has no significant history of revenues. We cannot predict our future results because our video phone business has no significant operating history. Our primary line of business is the development of video phone products and technology. We began generating revenue from commercial shipment of our Ojo product in April 2005. Given that our video phone business involves the development of a new product line with no market penetration, in an underdeveloped market sector, no assurances can be given that sufficient sales, if any, will materialize. Should this business fail to generate sufficient sales to support ongoing operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop alternate business lines. Investors should consider the risks and uncertainties that we may encounter as an early-revenue-stage company in a new, single line of business, in an unproven market. These uncertainties include: • our ability to design, engineer and manufacture products having the technological features planned for the video phone product line in a cost efficient manner; • our ability to enter into appropriate distribution relationships for the product; • our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our products and services to end users; • our ability to offer our products at competitive prices; • consumer and business demand for, and acceptance of, our video phone products; • our unproven and evolving business model; • the entrance of significant competitors into the video phone marketplace; • the introduction of newer video phone technology rendering our technology obsolete; • unfavorable economic conditions in the technology industry; • a changing regulatory environment; • decreased capital spending on technology due to adverse economic conditions; and • global economic conditions. Our video phone technology and products remain subject to significant uncertainty. Our video phone technology and products are in the early commercialization stage and have not been proven over an extended period of time. The market for products related to video telephony is characterized by uncertain user and customer requirements, and the emergence of new communications standards and practices. Each of these characteristics could impact our video phone products, intellectual property and system designs. The successful development of our products is subject to the risks that: • our product is found to be ineffective for the intended purposes; • our product is uneconomical to manufacture or market or does not achieve broad market acceptance; and • third parties hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing the product. Significant undetected errors or delays in new products or releases may affect market acceptance of our product. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing, errors will not be found in the initial product or subsequent releases after the commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of customers or failure to achieve market acceptance. In addition, our video phone technology and product will need to be compatible with a broad array of disparate technologies in order to be interoperable with other products routinely used in HSD operations such as routers, switches, network interfaces, operating systems, security protocols and techniques, communication protocols and protocol servers, and billing systems software. Without compatibility, we may not achieve market acceptance or demand for our products within our target base of customers because our products will not operate with many of the applications the target customers currently use. We rely on third parties to provide certain components and services for our video phone products. If our vendors fail to deliver their products in a reliable, timely and cost-efficient manner, our business will suffer. We depend on relationships with third parties such as contract manufacturing companies, chip design companies and others who may be sole source providers of key components and services critical for the product we are developing in our video phone business. A formal relationship with Mototech has been established for the volume manufacture of Ojo. Our agreement with Mototech allows either party to terminate the agreement with 90 days prior notice. If Mototech or other providers of components and/or manufacturing services do not produce these components or provide their services on a timely basis, if the components or services do not meet our specifications and quality control standards, or if the components or services are otherwise flawed, we may have to delay product delivery, or recall or replace unacceptable products. In addition, such failures could damage our reputation and could adversely affect our operating results. As a result, we could lose potential customers and any revenues that we may have at that time may decline dramatically. 7 We rely on third parties to provide certain marketing and distribution services for our video phone products. If our vendors fail to deliver their services in an appropriate, reliable, timely and cost-efficient manner, our business will suffer. In addition to direct sales on our web site, we rely upon a distribution organization of dealers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers, value added resellers, service providers and other resellers to market and sell our video phone products. We also plan to expand distribution to service providers and retailers around the world. Given our limited experience in dealing with the retail distribution channel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully and expeditiously conclude retail distribution agreements with the necessary retailers and distributors. These resellers are able to set their own policies regarding the pricing of our products and the advertising, marketing and other promotional efforts applicable to our products. In addition, they determine how prominently our products are displayed and demonstrated. If our resellers’ policies are not effective or if our products are not given adequate prominence, sales of our products may be negatively impacted and our operating results would be adversely affected. In this event, our revenue could be significantly reduced and we could lose potential customers for our products. We may not be able to meet our product development objectives or market expectations. Our video phone products are complex and use “state of the art” technology. Accordingly, our development efforts are inherently difficult to manage and keep on schedule and there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our development objectives or market expectations. In addition to development delays, we may experience substantial cost overruns in completing development of our product. The technological feasibility for some aspects of the product that we envision is not completely established. The products developed by us may contain undetected flaws when introduced. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us and by potential customers, flaws will not be found in the product, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. We may be unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing customer requirements. Further, there can be no assurance that a competitor will not introduce a similar product. The introduction by a competitor of either a similar product or a superior alternative to our product, may diminish our technological advantage, render our product and technologies partially or wholly obsolete, or require substantial re-engineering of our product in order to become commercially acceptable. Our failure to maintain our product development schedules, avoid cost overruns and undetected errors or introduce a product that is superior to competing products would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve competitive pricing in the marketplace. Because video phone products are relatively new to the marketplace there is no established market pricing. Our pricing for the Ojo video phone may be considered high for a consumer product offering. We cannot be assured that we will be able to provide competitive market pricing. We may be subject to exchange rate fluctuations that could impact our product costs and our revenues. Although our agreement with Mototech Inc. (not an affiliate of General Instruments or Motorola), our contract manufacturer in Taiwan, is denominated in U.S. dollars, their material acquisition costs are subject to exchange rate changes that could impact our product costs. Unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations could impact our cost of goods and result in increased product pricing that may hamper our ability to sell the units at a price acceptable to our customers or consumers. Our current revenues are all denominated in U.S. dollars. In the future, should we derive revenues that are denominated in foreign currency, our revenue would be subject to exchange rate fluctuations and could be impacted as a result. We are highly dependent on our key personnel to manage our business, and because of competition for qualified personnel we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel. Our continued growth and success depend to a significant degree on the continued services of our senior management and other key employees and our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. In the developing video phone business, we expect to encounter new product development challenges, new customer requirements, new competitors and other new business challenges, with which our existing management may be unfamiliar. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in recruiting new personnel or in retaining existing personnel. None of our employees are subject to a long-term employment agreement. The loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract additional qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may experience increased compensation costs in order to attract and retain skilled employees. We may not be successful in developing or maintaining strong distribution channels for our video phone products. The success of the video phone business depends on developing strong relationships with service providers such as cable and DSL operators and other HSD and telecommunications service providers and distribution channel partners who are selling services and/or consumer electronic devices to end-users. If we are not successful in creating a strong distribution channel in a timely manner, we may not gain significant sales. 8 We may not be able to compete successfully in the highly competitive and rapidly evolving HSD and telecommunications market. The market for products that utilize HSD and telecommunications is still developing and there can be no assurance that our product will ever achieve market acceptance. Businesses, cable operators and other HSD and telecommunications service providers as well as the users of such HSD and telecommunications services must be convinced to buy our video phone product. To the extent we do not achieve growth it will be difficult for us to generate meaningful revenue or to achieve profitability. We may not be able to protect intellectual property of our video phone business against third-party infringements or claims of infringement. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in a loss of our exclusivity or the right to use our video phone technology. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our video phone intellectual property. Although we have been awarded patents for our distinctive designs and technology and have other patents pending, our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any further patents will be issued pursuant to our current or future patent applications or that patents issued pursuant to such applications will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the rights granted under any such patents will provide competitive advantages to us or be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. We also seek to protect our proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventor’s rights agreements with our current and future strategic partners and employees. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Some of our video phone intellectual property includes technologies and processes that may be similar to the patented technologies and processes of third parties. If we do not adequately secure our freedom to use our video phone technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. If we are found to be infringing third-party patents, we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. While we are not currently engaged in any material intellectual property disputes or litigation, we could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or commence lawsuits against others who we believe are infringing upon our rights. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affecting the development of the challenged product or intellectual property and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation concludes favorably for us. Legal and regulatory developments could have adverse consequences for our business. The legal and regulatory environment that pertains to our business is uncertain and changing rapidly. New legislation or regulations could be introduced in any country that could substantially impact our ability to launch and promote the Ojo video phone in that country. For example the FCC or a comparable regulatory authority could undertake an examination of whether to impose surcharges or additional regulations upon certain providers of Internet protocol, or IP, based communication services. The imposition of regulations on IP communications services may negatively impact our business. Similarly, the adoption of regulations prohibiting the use of certain substances commonly found in electronic components could likewise increase the costs of our products, delay product introductions and otherwise negatively impact our business. The use of the high speed data infrastructure as a commercial marketplace is at an early stage of development. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services over the high speed data, or HSD, infrastructure are still uncertain. We cannot predict whether customers will be willing to shift their traditional telephone activities online. The HSD infrastructure may not prove to be a viable commercial marketplace for a number of reasons, including: • concerns about security and varying security techniques and protocols; • changing and non-uniform standards; • Internet congestion; • quality of service issues; • inconsistent service; and • lack of cost-effective, high-speed access. If the use of the HSD infrastructure as a commercial marketplace does not continue to grow, we may not be able to grow our customer base, which may prevent us from achieving profitability. 9 We may not have sufficient working capital to fund our continuing video phone business, and we may be unable to obtain additional capital. The extent and timing of our future capital requirements will depend upon several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our products, the rate and timing of product sales and the margin associated with those sales, the degree of competition for our products, and our level of expenditures, including those for product development, sales and marketing. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. Despite the receipt of proceeds from several private placements of our securities, we may need to seek additional third party investment in order to provide additional operating capital for our video phone business. We cannot be certain that financing from third parties will be available on acceptable terms to us or at all. The levels of funding of early-stage companies generally by both venture funds and strategic investors have fallen dramatically in the past few years. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. If we are unable to secure such additional financing, we will have to curtail or suspend our business activities, we may not be able to continue to operate our business as a going concern and we may have to seek the protection of the bankruptcy courts. If that happens, you could lose your entire investment. If we obtain additional financing, you may suffer significant dilution. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience severe dilution of their ownership percentage, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. On multiple occasions we have issued shares of our common and preferred stock, convertible debentures, as well as warrants and additional rights to acquire our common stock, to certain institutional investors in private placement transactions. The various agreements providing for these private placement transactions include numerous anti-dilution provisions which have in the past, and may in the future continue to be, triggered by a reduction in our stock price and which could trigger the anti-dilution adjustments of outstanding shares and warrants and issuance of additional shares or warrants of our stock. In connection with the Private Placement described in “Item 1. Business – Overview” above, we expect to issue approximately 202.5 million shares of our common stock to WGI, representing 63% of our outstanding common stock immediately following the closing of the Private Placement. In addition, we will issue to WGI the Anti-Dilution Warrant which is designed to ensure that WGI may maintain 63% of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock in the event that we issue any capital stock in respect of Existing Contingent Equity, New Contingent Equity and the ACN Warrant. Accordingly, upon the closing of the Private Placement, our current stockholders will be reduced to 37% of the outstanding shares of common stock and may be further reduced in the future to the extent the Anti-Dilution Warrant or the ACN Warrant are exercised. Upon the closing of the Private Placement, WGI will control a significant amount of our outstanding common stock thus allowing it to exert significant influence on our management and affairs. Upon the closing of the Private Placement, WGI will own approximately 63% of our outstanding common stock and will hold a warrant to acquire additional shares of common stock to maintain that level of ownership. In addition, we will issue ACN a warrant to acquire up to 38.2 million shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the Rights Agreement to be executed upon the closing of the Private Placement, WGI and ACN will be entitled to maintain their respective ownership percentage in our company. Accordingly, WGI and ACN will have significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders, including any potential change of control transactions. Our controlling stockholders will be able to determine the outcome of matters put to a stockholder vote, including the ability to elect our directors, determine our corporate and management policies, including compensation of our executives, and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or result in strategic decisions that could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our outstanding stock. WGI also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and WGI or ACN concerning, among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Neither WGI nor ACN is restricted from competitive activities or investments. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of WGI or ACN will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Our ability to utilize our historical net operating losses has been substantially limited and will be subject to additional limitations if the Private Placement is completed. During our 2008 fiscal year, we experienced an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which resulted in a loss of a substantial amount of the net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”) we had accrued, resulting in a remaining NOL of approximately $7 million as of December 31, 2008. Our ability to use our remaining NOLs could be additionally reduced if we experience any further “ownership change,” as defined under Section 382. The calculation of an “ownership change” under the Internal Revenue Code is based on the cumulative ownership changes in our common stock by stockholders that own, or are deemed to own, 50% or more of our common stock over a rolling three-year period. Our issuance of the common stock to WGI in the Private Placement will result in additional limitations on the amount of the NOL we would be able to use to offset income that we generate in future years as a result of current tax law as defined under Section 382. We will be required under applicable accounting guidelines to report significant reductions in the revenue we recognize from sales of our products under the Commercial Relationship with ACN. Current accounting principles require that beginning with fiscal year 2009 revenue which is generated as result of the Commercial Relationship with ACN be reduced, as reported, to reflect the excess fair value of the equity issued as part of the Private Placement with WGI and the fair value of the warrants earned by ACN pursuant to the Commercial Relationship to the extent that such equity and warrants are determined to be consideration given by a vendor to a customer for which an otherwise identifiable benefit has not been received. The Company has not yet completed its analysis of the applicability or extent of any such reduction, however the reduction of revenues the Company expects to report under the Commercial Relationship is expected to be significant. 10 If the Private Placement with WGI does not close as expected we may not have sufficient working capital to fund our continuing video phone business. If, for any reason, the Private Placement with WGI does not close as scheduled in early April, and we are unable to secure any additional financing, we will have to curtail or suspend our business activities, we may not be able to continue to operate our business as a going concern and we may have to seek the protection of the bankruptcy courts. If that happens, you could lose your entire investment. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) which increases the volatility of our stock and makes it harder to sell our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCBB. The OTCBB tends to be highly illiquid, in part because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTCBB as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. In a volatile market, you may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our securities. These fluctuations may have an extremely negative effect on the market price of our securities and may prevent you from obtaining a market price equal to your purchase price when you attempt to sell our securities in the open market. In these situations, you may be required to either sell our securities at a market price which is lower than your purchase price, or to hold our securities for a longer period of time than you planned. Because our common stock falls under the definition of “penny stock,” trading in our common stock may be limited because broker-dealers are required to provide their customers with disclosure documents prior to allowing them to participate in transactions involving our common stock. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors; and require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. As a result, the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock might decline, and you could find it more difficult to sell your stock. Our stock price is volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been volatile, ranging from a sales price of $6.89 per share in the first quarter of 2005 to a sales price of $0.01 in November 2008. The trading price for our common stock during the period from January 2, 2008 to December 31, 2008 ranged from $0.01 to $0.40. The price has changed dramatically over short periods with changes of over 100% in a single day. An investment in our stock is subject to such volatility and, consequently, is subject to significant risk. Prior offerings of our common stock may have an adverse impact on the market value of our stock. On multiple occasions we have issued shares of our common stock as part of various private placements to certain institutional investors and as part of these transactions we filed multiple registration statements, which provided for the sale or distribution of these shares by these institutional investors. When these investors sell their shares we do not receive any proceeds from the sales. The sale of these blocks of stock, or even the possibility of their sale, may adversely affect the trading market for our common stock and reduce the price available in that market. In connection with these private placements, we also issued convertible debentures and warrants to purchase shares of common stock. The existence of such rights to acquire common stock at variable as well as fixed prices may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future equity and debt funding, and the exercise of such rights will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and may dilute the value of their ownership. The possible future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of outstanding warrants and additional investment rights could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Further, the holders of the outstanding warrants and additional investment rights may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. 11 Our failure to comply with certain covenants contained in agreements relating to private placements of our securities may have an adverse impact on our available cash. On multiple occasions we have issued shares of our common and preferred stock, issued convertible debentures, as well as issued warrants and additional rights to acquire our common stock, to certain institutional investors in private placement transactions. The various agreements providing for these private placement transactions included numerous provisions intended to protect such institutional investors. For example, we are required to continually maintain effective registration statements permitting the investors to sell their shares of common stock. Failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages to the investors and result in our obligation to make cash payments to the investors. The investors may also be entitled to receive more shares than originally allocated in the event we subsequently issue shares to other investors at a lower valuation than that afforded to the investors. In addition, the investors may be entitled to receive cash payments instead of shares upon the redemption of certain securities in the event that certain defined events occur including a lapse in the registration statement, being de-listed on certain specified exchanges, trading in our stock is suspended, or a change in our control occurs. Our board of directors’ right to authorize additional shares of preferred stock could adversely impact the rights of holders of our common stock. Our board of directors currently has the right to designate and authorize the issuance of one or more series of our preferred stock with such voting, dividend and other rights as our directors may determine. The board of directors can designate new series of preferred stock without the approval of the holders of our common stock. The rights of holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of any holders of shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, including, without limitation, dilution of the equity ownership percentage of our holders of common stock and their voting power if we issue preferred stock with voting rights. Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Item 