ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as updated by other filings the Group makes with the SEC under the Exchange Act. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us at this time or that the Group currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Most of our business is conducted in Puerto Rico, which in recent years has experienced a downturn in the economy and in the real estate market. Because most of our business activities are conducted in Puerto Rico and a significant portion of our credit exposure on our loan portfolio, which is the largest component of our interest-earning assets, is concentrated in Puerto Rico, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by an extended economic slowdown, adverse political or economic developments in Puerto Rico or the effects of a natural disaster, all of which could result in a reduction in loan originations, an increase in non-performing assets, an increase in foreclosure losses on mortgage loans, and a reduction in the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. The economy of Puerto Rico entered into a recession in the fourth quarter of the government’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. For fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product decreased by 1.2%, 2.9%, 3.8%, 3.4% and 1.5%, respectively. On March 13, 2013, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”) downgraded Puerto Rico’s general obligation debt ratings from “BBB” to “BBB-” with a negative outlook. In taking such action, S&P stated that the downgrade reflects a significantly larger estimated budget deficit in 2013 than was originally expected, which will make it difficult for Puerto Rico to achieve a structurally balanced budget within the next two years. 17 On February, 21, 2013, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) placed the Puerto Rico general obligation bonds and other debt rated BBB-plus on a negative watch. Fitch stated that the negative rating watch is based on the economic and revenue underperformance which Fitch believes has meaningfully increased the size of the Commonwealth’s operating budget imbalance for the current fiscal year and the gap the Commonwealth will need to address as it develops a balanced budget for 2014. Fitch does not believe that a balanced budget will be achieved in fiscal 2014, and meeting this goal will remain challenging thereafter. On December 13, 2012, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) downgraded the rating of Puerto Rico’s general obligation debt to Baa3 from Baa1 and assigned a negative outlook. In taking such action, Moody’s stated, in part, that economic growth prospects remain weak after six years of recession and could be further dampened by the Commonwealth’s efforts to control spending and reform its retirement system, both of which are needed to stabilize the Commonwealths financial results. It also stated that the lack of significant economic growth drivers and the Commonwealth’s declining population have also reduced prospects for a strong economic recovery, and that debt levels are very high and continue to grow, while financial performance has been weak, including lackluster revenue growth and large structural budget gaps that have led to a persistent reliance on deficit financings and serial debt restructurings to support operations in recent years. It further said that reform of the Commonwealth’s severely underfunded retirement systems is needed to avoid asset depletion and future budget pressure. A period of reduced economic growth or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of default in commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. A recession may have a significant adverse impact on our net interest income and fee income. We may also experience significant losses on the loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. For a discussion of the impact of the economy on our loan portfolios, see “—A prolonged economic downturn or recession or a continuing decline in the real estate market would likely result in an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and in a reduction in loan origination activity, which would adversely affect our financial results.” The prolonged recessionary economic environment accelerated the devaluation of properties and increased portfolio delinquency when compared with previous periods. Additional economic weakness in Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland could further pressure residential property values, loan delinquencies, foreclosures and the cost of repossessing and disposing of real estate collateral. The business activities of the BBVAPR Companies are similarly concentrated in the Puerto Rico market. Moreover, as a result of the BBVAPR Acquisition and the deleveraging of our balance sheet in the last quarter of 2012, our loan portfolio has become the largest component of our interest-earning assets. Consequently, the BBVAPR Acquisition has increased the risk we face in the event of a continued downturn in the Puerto Rico economy. Our decisions regarding credit risk and the allowance for loan and lease losses may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that the loans will not be repaid. This default risk is affected by a number of factors, including: · the duration of the loan; · credit risks of a particular borrower; · changes in economic or industry conditions; and · in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We strive to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors such as default frequency, internal risk ratings, expected future cash collections, loss recovery rates and general economic factors, among others. Our methodology for measuring the adequacy of the allowance relies on several key elements, which include a specific allowance for identified problem loans, a general systematic allowance, and an unallocated allowance. We believe our allowance for loan and lease losses is currently sufficient given the constant monitoring of the risk inherent in the loan portfolio. However, there is no precise method of predicting loan losses and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses will be required. In addition, the FDIC as well as the OCFI may require us to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses would result in a decrease of net earnings and capital and could hinder our ability to pay dividends. 18 As a result of the BBVAPR Acquisition, we acquired a significant portfolio of commercial and auto loans. If we are unable to accurately predict loan losses with respect to these loan categories, we may have to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. See “—Loans that we acquired in the BBVAPR Acquisition may be subject to greater than anticipated impairment.” We are subject to default and other risks in connection with mortgage loan originations. From the time that we fund the mortgage loans originated to the time that they are sold, we are generally at risk for any mortgage loan defaults. Once we sell the mortgage loans, the risk of loss from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures passes to the purchaser or insurer of the mortgage loans. However, in the ordinary course of business, we make representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers of mortgage loans relating to the validity of such loans. If there is a breach of any of these representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the mortgage loan. We also may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in the event that there was improper underwriting or fraud or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we repurchased $12.5 million of loans from GNMA. Any such repurchases in the future may negatively impact our liquidity and operating results. Termination of our ability to sell mortgage products to the government-sponsored entities would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, including securities fraud claims, and the amount of such losses could exceed the purchase amount of the related loans. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans. In addition, we incur higher liquidity risk with respect to mortgage loans not eligible to be insured by FNMA, GNMA or FHLMC, due to a lack of secondary market in which to sell these loans. We have established reserves in our consolidated financial statements for potential losses that are considered to be both probable and reasonably estimable related to the mortgage loans sold by us. The adequacy of the reserve and the ultimate amount of losses incurred will depend on, among other things, the actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests, the actual success rate of claimants, developments in litigation related to us and the industry, actual recoveries on the collateral and macroeconomic conditions (including unemployment levels and housing prices). Due to uncertainties relating to these factors, there can be no assurance that our reserves will be adequate or that the total amount of losses incurred will not have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our allowance for loan and lease losses, see “Note 6—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our earnings could decrease due to increases to the provision for credit losses Our customers might not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans might be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Our intangible assets could be determined to be impaired in the future and could decrease the Group’s earnings In future periods, as a result of the BBVAPR Acquisition, we will be required to test our goodwill, core deposit and customer relationship intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal 19 valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common shares or our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Group’s ability to make dividend payments to us without prior regulatory approval. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the BBVAPR Acquisition. Our future growth and profitability depend, in part, on the ability to successfully manage the combined operations. The success of the BBVAPR Acquisition will depend on, among other things, our ability to assess the quality of assets acquired, to realize anticipated cost savings and to integrate the acquired companies in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt our or BBVAPR’s existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenue resulting from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the BBVAPR Acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Loans that we acquired in the BBVAPR Acquisition may be subject to greater than anticipated impairment. We have made fair value estimates of certain assets and liabilities in recording the BBVAPR Acquisition. Actual values of these assets and liabilities could differ from our estimates, which could result in us not achieving the anticipated benefits of the BBVAPR Acquisition. In addition, BBVAPR’s loan scoring system is different than ours, and as we evaluate their loan portfolio using our systems, we may have to make additional adjustments. Given the economic conditions in Puerto Rico, we may continue to experience increased credit costs or need to take greater than anticipated markdowns and make greater than anticipated provisions to increase the allowances for loan losses on the loans acquired that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. We may not be able to integrate BBVAPR’s business into our operations. The successful integration of BBVAPR’s banking operations and our future growth and profitability depend in part on our ability to successfully manage the combined operations. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems and management controls and policies, as well as managing relevant relationships with employees, clients, suppliers and other business partners. Integration efforts could divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our operations or results. The loss of key employees in connection with this acquisition could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct the combined operations. There can be no assurance that any of these executives will choose to continue working with us, or if they do, that we will be able to successfully integrate these executives as part of our management team in the combined business. The BBVAPR Acquisition may also result in business disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause customers to move their accounts or business to competing financial institutions. It is possible that the integration process related to the acquisition could disrupt our ongoing business or result in inconsistencies in customer service that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. There is no assurance that our integration efforts will not result in other unanticipated costs. We will incur in significant costs related to the BBVAPR Acquisition. We expect to incur certain one-time restructuring charges of approximately $35 million in connection with the BBVAPR acquisition. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from the BBVAPR Acquisition will be comprised of transaction costs related to the BBVAPR Acquisition, financing arrangements and employment-related costs. We also will incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans. We continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the business integration of the two groups of companies. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies or synergies related to the integration of the businesses should allow us to offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Our financial results are constantly exposed to market risk, in particular to changes in interest rates. 20 Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the fair value of assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or equity prices. Changes in interest rates are one of the principal market risks affecting us. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on interest-earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. We use an asset-liability management software program to project future movements in the balance sheet and income statement. The starting point of the projections generally corresponds to the actual values of the balance sheet on the date of the simulations. These simulations are highly complex and use many simplifying assumptions. In addition, the interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans and investment securities, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. We are subject to interest rate risk because of the following factors: · Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice slower than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline. · Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, basis risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices that may not move in tandem. · Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently. · The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, our mortgage-backed securities portfolios may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, we would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant impact on mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios. · Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of financial assets and financial liabilities, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings. In limiting interest rate risk to an acceptable level, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. We may suffer losses or experience lower spreads than anticipated in initial projections as management implements strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. The hedging transactions that we enter into may not be effective in managing our exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk. We use derivatives, such as interest rate swaps and options on interest rate swaps, to manage part of our exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. We have also offered certificates of deposit with an option tied to the performance of the Standard & Poor 500 stock market index and use derivatives, such as option agreements with major broker-dealer companies, to manage our exposure to changes in the value of the index. The derivative instruments that we may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (i) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost; (ii) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular 21 transaction to perform its obligations thereunder; and (iii) legal risk, which is the risk that we are unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose us to losses. If the counterparty to a derivative contract fails to perform, our credit risk is equal to the net fair value of the contract. We deal with counterparties that have high quality credit ratings at the time we enter into the counterparty relationships. However, there can be no assurances that the counterparties will have the ability to perform under their contracts. If the counterparty fails to perform, including as a result of the bankruptcy or insolvency of such counterparty, we would incur losses as a result. We may incur a significant impairment charge in connection with a decline in the market value of our investment securities portfolio. A substantial part of our earnings come from the treasury business segment, which encompasses the investment securities portfolio. The determination of fair value for investment securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. In addition, we utilize and review information obtained from third-party sources to measure fair values. Third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining securities values, and different third parties may provide different prices for securities. Moreover, depending upon, among other things, the measurement date of the security, the subsequent sale price of the security may be different from its recorded fair value. These differences may be significant, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption. When the fair value of a security declines, management must assess whether the decline is “other-than-temporary.” When the decline in fair value is deemed “other-than-temporary,” the amortized cost basis of the investment security is reduced to its then current fair value. The term “other-than-temporary impairment” is not intended to indicate that the decline is permanent, but indicates that the prospect for a near-term recovery of value is not necessarily favorable, or that there is a lack of evidence to support a realizable value equal to or greater than the carrying value of the investment. Any portion of a decline in value associated with credit loss is recognized in income with the remaining noncredit-related component being recognized in other comprehensive income. A credit loss is determined by assessing whether the amortized cost basis of the security will be recovered, by comparing the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the security, computed using original yield as the discount rate, to the amortized cost basis of the security. The shortfall of the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected in relation to the amortized cost basis is considered to be the “credit loss.” Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition. Subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future results of operations, as they are based on the difference between the sale prices received and the adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. We consider numerous factors in our review of whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, many of which involve complex judgment. A decline in the market value of our investment securities portfolio could adversely impact our regulatory capital ratios. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve Board, together with other federal banking regulatory agencies, recently issued proposed capital rules to implement the so-called “Basel III” capital framework in the United States. Among other things, the proposed rules would require banking organizations such as ourselves to include gains and losses on our securities holdings classified as available-for-sale (“AFS”) in our common equity tier 1 capital (“CET1”). This aspect of the rules would be phased in over six years with full gain and loss flow-through to capital starting in 2018. Currently, unrealized losses on AFS equity securities are counted against Tier 1 capital, unrealized gains on AFS equity securities are partially included in Tier 2 capital and unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt securities are excluded from regulatory capital. However, these unrealized gains and losses are reflected in stockholders’ equity under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The agencies’ proposals introduce the concept of CET1—which is comprised of qualifying common stock instruments, retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), certain qualifying minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries and other adjustments, and establish a new minimum ratio of CET1 to total risk-weighted assets of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% to be phased in over several years. Because of the inclusion of AOCI, unlike the current general risk-based capital rules, unrealized gains and losses on all AFS-classified securities would flow through to CET1 capital, after the transition period, if the proposals are adopted in their current form. Our CET1 levels are likely to be significantly more volatile under the agencies’ proposals than previously because unrealized gains and losses on AFS classified securities recognized in stockholders’ equity on the balance sheet for accounting purposes would also be incorporated for regulatory capital purposes. Accordingly, a decline in the market value of our investment securities portfolio could adversely impact our regulatory capital ratios. Market conditions and actions by governmental authorities may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our investment portfolio. 22 Our success depends in part on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) portfolio. Changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of MBS that we may purchase and any MBS that we may hold at a given time. As part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. In conducting this analysis, we depend on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. U.S. government programs aimed at assisting homeowners, including the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan announced by the US Treasury in February 2009, the “Operation Twist” program announced by the Federal Reserve Board on September 21, 2011, the expansion of the Home Affordable Refinancing Program (“HARP”) announced by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”), FNMA and the FHLMC on October 24, 2011, and other expansions to the US Treasury’s Home Affordable Modification Program (“HAMP”), including proposals to allow FNMA and FHLMC to use principal reductions when modifying loans under HAMP, could cause an increase in prepayment rates. Bills to implement these proposals, which were opposed by the FHFA, are currently under consideration in both chambers of Congress. On February 1, 2012, President Obama proposed legislation to expand HARP in order to allow a greater number of homeowners to refinance their mortgages at historically low interest rates. If the dislocations in the residential mortgage market, recent or future government actions, or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, it would significantly affect our ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies, and (iii) adopt techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility. This could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or perception of financial health. A prolonged economic downturn or recession or a continuing decline in the real estate market would likely result in an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and in a reduction in loan origination activity, which would adversely affect our financial results. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of lower volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline, and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans that we may originate in the future and may adversely impact our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. A significant trend of decreasing values in certain housing segments in Puerto Rico has also been noted. There is a risk that a reduction in housing values could negatively impact our loss levels on the mortgage portfolio because the value of the homes underlying the loans is a primary source of repayment in the event of foreclosure. The decline in Puerto Rico’s economy has had an adverse effect in the credit quality of our loan portfolios. Among other things, during the recession, we experienced an increase in the level of non-performing assets and loan loss provision, which adversely affected our profitability. Although the delinquency rates have decreased in the short term, they may increase if the economy falls back into a recession. If there is another decline in economic activity, additional increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses could be necessary with further adverse effects on our profitability. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to sell loans, the price received on the sale of such loans, and the value of the mortgage loan portfolio, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken our collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. For a discussion of the impact of the Puerto Rico economy on our business operations, see “—Most of our business is conducted in Puerto Rico, which in recent years has experienced a downturn in the economy and in the real estate market.” A continuing decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland and ongoing disruptions in the capital markets may harm our investment securities and wholesale funding portfolios. The housing market in the U.S. is undergoing a correction of historic proportions. After a period of several years of booming housing markets, fueled by liberal credit conditions and rapidly rising property values, the sector has been in the midst of a substantial correction since early 2007. The general level of property values in the U.S., as measured by several indices widely followed by the market, has declined. These declines are the result of ongoing market adjustments that are aligning property values with income levels and home inventories. The U.S. residential real estate market has most recently shown signs of recovery driven by lower interest rates, fewer foreclosures, high affordability of home ownership, and satisfying demand that has built up during a period of economic uncertainty. However, we cannot predict whether the recovery will continue or if and when the market and related economic forces will return the U.S. residential real estate industry to a period of sustained growth. Diverse macroeconomic developments could also 23 slow or impair a housing recovery and if the real estate market or the economy as a whole does not improve, we may experience material adverse effects on our business or financial condition and liquidity, including our investment securities and wholesale funding portfolios. Furthermore, any concern regarding the long-term sovereign credit rating of the United States, including due to concerns related to U.S. federal fiscal policy or difficulties in addressing federal debt levels, could stress the capital markets in the United States and globally and could have a negative impact on our investment securities and wholesale funding portfolios. Significant concern regarding the creditworthiness of some of the governments in Europe has also contributed to volatility in the financial markets and led to greater economic uncertainty worldwide. Sovereign debt concerns in Europe could diminish economic recovery and lead to further stress in the capital markets, both globally and in the United States, which could also have a negative impact on our investment securities and wholesale funding portfolios. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot maintain access to stable funding sources. Our business requires continuous access to various funding sources. We are able to fund our operations through deposits as well as through advances from the FHLB-NY and other alternative sources; however, our business is significantly dependent upon other wholesale funding sources, such as repurchase agreements and brokered deposits, which consisted of approximately 32% of our total interest-bearing liabilities as of December 31, 2012. While most of our repurchase agreements have been structured with initial terms to maturity of between three and ten years, most of the counterparties have the right to exercise put options before the contractual maturities. Brokered deposits are typically sold through an intermediary to small retail investors. Our ability to continue to attract brokered deposits is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. Brokered deposits are generally considered a less stable source of funding than core deposits obtained through retail bank branches. Investors in brokered deposits are generally more sensitive to interest rates and will generally move funds from one depository institution to another based on small differences in interest rates offered on deposits. We expect to have continued access to credit from the foregoing sources of funds. However, there can be no assurance that such financing sources will continue to be available or will be available on favorable terms. In a period of financial disruption, or if negative developments occur with respect to us, the availability and cost of funding sources could be adversely affected. In that event, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing the net interest income, or we may need to dispose of a portion of the investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in realizing a loss or experiencing other adverse accounting consequences upon the dispositions. The interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, applicable credit ratings from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to any of these credit ratings could affect our ability to access the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other reductions in liquidity driven by us or market related events. In the event that such sources of funds are reduced or eliminated and we are not able to replace them on a cost-effective basis, we may be forced to curtail or cease our loan origination business and treasury activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our risk management policies, procedures and systems may be inadequate to mitigate all risks inherent in our various businesses. A comprehensive risk management function is essential to the financial and operational success of our business. The types of risk we monitor and seek to manage include, but are not limited to, operational risk, technological and organizational risk, market risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various policies, procedures and systems to monitor and manage these risks. There can be no assurance that those policies, procedures and systems are adequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our various businesses. Our businesses and the markets in which we operate are also continuously evolving. If we fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and to adequately or timely enhance the risk framework to address those changes, we could incur losses. In addition, in a difficult or less liquid market environment, our risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies to deal with the challenging market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult for us to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of such other market participants. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. 24 We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits and assets to manage. The competition in originating loans and attracting assets comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, investment advisors, broker-dealers, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. We will encounter greater competition as we expand our operations. Increased competition may require us to increase the rates paid on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans which could adversely affect our profitability. Our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. Dividends to us from our subsidiaries have represented a major source of funds for us to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet other obligations. There are various U.S. federal and Puerto Rico law limitations on the extent to which Oriental Bank, our main subsidiary, can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, U.S. federal and Puerto Rico banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act of 1913 and Regulation W of the Federal Reserve Board governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. If our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments while maintaining adequate capital levels, our liquidity may be affected, and we may not be able to make dividend payments to our holders of common and preferred stock or payments on outstanding corporate debt securities or meet other obligations, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or perception of financial health. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Loans that we acquired in the FDIC-assisted acquisition of Eurobank may not be covered by the shared-loss agreements if the FDIC determines that we have not adequately performed under these agreements or if the shared-loss agreements have ended. Although the FDIC has agreed to reimburse us for 80% of qualifying losses on covered loans, we are not protected from all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to such loans. Also, the FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for loan and lease losses if the shared-loss agreements are not performed by us in accordance with their terms. Additionally, the shared-loss agreements have limited terms, and therefore, any charge-offs that we experience after the terms of the shared-loss agreements have ended would not be recoverable from the FDIC. Certain provisions of the shared-loss agreements entered into with the FDIC may have anti-takeover effects and could limit our ability to engage in certain strategic transactions that our board of directors believes would be in the best interests of shareholders. The FDIC’s agreement to bear 80% of qualifying losses on single family residential loans for ten years and commercial loans for five years is one of our significant assets and a feature of the FDIC-assisted acquisition without which we would not have entered into such transaction. Our agreement with the FDIC requires that we receive prior FDIC consent, which may be withheld by the FDIC in its sole discretion, prior to us or our shareholders engaging in certain transactions. If any such transaction is completed without prior FDIC consent, the FDIC would have the right to discontinue the loss-sharing arrangement. Among other things, prior FDIC consent is required for: (i) a merger or consolidation of us with or into another company if our shareholders will own less than 2/3 of the combined company and (ii) a sale of shares by one or more of our shareholders that will effect a change in control of Oriental Bank, as determined by the FDIC with reference to the standards set forth in the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 (generally, the acquisition of between 10% and 25% of our voting securities where the presumption of control is not rebutted, or the acquisition of more than 25% of our voting securities). Such a sale by shareholders may occur beyond our control. If we or any shareholder desires to enter into any such transaction, there can be no assurances that the FDIC would grant its consent in a timely manner, without conditions, or at all. If one of these transactions were to occur without prior FDIC consent and the FDIC withdrew its loss-share protection, there could be a material adverse impact on us. Loans that we acquired in the FDIC-assisted acquisition may be subject to impairment. Although the loan portfolios acquired by us were initially accounted for at fair value, certain of such loans have become impaired and we have recorded $54.1 million in allowance for loan losses related to this portfolio. There is no assurance that loans in this portfolio 25 will not become impaired or further impaired, which may result in additional provision for loan and lease losses related to these portfolios. The fluctuations in economic conditions, including those related to the Puerto Rico residential and commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of provision for credit losses that we make to our loan portfolio and portfolios acquired in the FDIC-assisted acquisition, and consequently, reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act has a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes, such as: (i) enhanced resolution authority of troubled and failing banks and their holding companies; (ii) enhanced lending limits strengthening the existing limits on a depository institution’s credit exposure to one borrower and to affiliates; (iii) increased capital and liquidity requirements; (iv) increased regulatory examination fees; (v) changes to assessments to be paid to the FDIC for federal deposit insurance; (vi) prohibiting bank holding companies, such as us, from including in regulatory Tier 1 capital future issuances of trust preferred securities or other hybrid debt and equity securities; (vii) caps on the interchange fees that banks are able to charge merchants for debit card transactions pursuant to the “Durbin Amendment”; and (viii) numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of the financial services industry. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act established a new framework for systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC. It also creates a new consumer financial protection regulator, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which assumed most of the consumer financial protection regulatory responsibilities that were exercised by federal banking regulators and other agencies. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act addresses many corporate governance and executive compensation matters that affect most U.S. publicly-traded companies, including us. Certain recent regulatory changes under the Dodd-Frank Act and otherwise apply only to depository institutions with more than $10 billion in total assets, including requirements to undergo regular “stress testing” of capital under hypothetical adverse economic scenarios, “large bank” adjustments to assessments paid to the FDIC for deposit insurance, supervision and examination by the Bureau, and requirements to establish a risk committee on a company’s board of directors. In addition, financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets will not be eligible for the “commercial end user” exemption to Dodd-Frank Act’s mandatory clearing requirements for swaps and security-based swaps transactions used to hedge commercial risk. Although we have less than $10 billion in assets as of December 31, 2012, we may still be treated for certain regulatory and supervisory purposes as an institution with more than $10 billion in assets based on the combined total assets of the Group and BBVAPR prior to the merger until such time as the Bank (or the Group, as applicable) has closed four consecutive quarters with $10 billion or less in total assets. If we grow to have more than $10 billion in assets through additional acquisitions or organic growth, our costs of doing business would be likely to increase permanently as a result of these requirements. Given that many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are being implemented over time and are subject to implementing regulations, the full extent of the impact that such requirements, and other legislative and regulatory developments, will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: · a reduction in our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; · increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; · the limitation on our ability to raise capital through the use of trust preferred securities as these securities will no longer be included as Tier 1 capital going forward; and · the limitation on our ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. 26 Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. Legislative and other measures that may be taken by Puerto Rico governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We operate the IBE Unit and Subsidiary pursuant to the IBE Act that provide us with significant tax advantages. An IBE has the benefits of exemptions from Puerto Rico income taxes on interest earned on, or gain realized from the sale of, non-Puerto Rico assets, including U.S. government obligations and certain mortgage-backed securities. This exemption has allowed us to have effective tax rates significantly below the maximum statutory tax rates. In the past, the Legislature of Puerto Rico has considered proposals to curb the tax benefits afforded to IBEs. In 2012, a new Puerto Rico law was enacted in this area. Although it did not repeal the IBE Act, the new law does not allow new license applications under the IBE Act to organize and operate an IBE. Any newly organized entity (now called an “international financial entity”) must be licensed under the new law and such entity (as opposed to existing IBEs organized under the IBE Act, including the Bank’s IBE Unit and Subsidiary, which are “grandfathered”) will generally be subject to a 4% Puerto Rico income tax rate. In the event other legislation is passed in Puerto Rico to eliminate or modify the tax exemption enjoyed by IBEs, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing the tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included herein for a discussion of any accounting developments that have been issued but not yet implemented. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that applies to the consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition in attracting talented people could adversely affect our operations. We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and we rely heavily on our management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been influenced strongly by the ability to attract and retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Retention of senior managers and appropriate succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of our strategies. For a discussion of retention risk with respect to former BBVAPR employees, see “—We may not be able to integrate BBVAPR’s assets into our operations.” Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results. Our ability to originate loans and to attract deposits and assets is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer, commercial and funding markets of our business practices and our financial health. Negative public opinion could result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including lending practices, regulatory compliance, inadequate protection of customer information, or sales and marketing, and from actions taken by regulators in response to such conduct. Adverse perceptions regarding us could lead to difficulties in originating loans and generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. In addition, a variety of social factors may cause changes in borrowing activity, including credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by account holders and borrowers. If consumers develop or maintain negative attitudes about incurring debt, or if consumption trends decline, our business and financial results will be negatively affected. We could incur increased costs or reductions in revenue or suffer reputational damage in the event of misuse of information. 27 Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks regarding our customers and their accounts. To provide these products and services, we use information systems and infrastructure that we and third party service providers operate. As a financial institution, we also are subject to and examined for compliance with an array of data protection laws, regulations and guidance, as well as to our own internal privacy and information security policies and programs. Information security risks for financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers and other external parties. Our technologies and systems may become the target of cyber-attacks or other attacks that could result in the misuse or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary or other information or that could result in disruptions to the business operations of us or our customers or other third parties. Further, a breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could impact us through no fault of our own. In addition, because the methods and techniques employed by perpetrators of fraud and others to attack systems and applications change frequently and often are not fully recognized or understood until after they have been launched, we and our third-party service providers and partners may be unable to anticipate certain attack methods in order to implement effective preventative measures. While we have policies and procedures designated to prevent or limit the effect of the possible security breach of our information systems, if unauthorized persons were somehow to get access to confidential or proprietary information in our possession or to our proprietary information, it could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems that could adversely affect our business. Though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 