Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors listed below, in addition to those described elsewhere in this report could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Risks Related to Our Company We incurred significant losses in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, and may incur such losses in the future. If we continue to incur significant losses and are unable to access sufficient working capital from our operations or through external financing, we may be unable to fund future operations. As reflected in our consolidated financial statements, we have incurred net losses applicable to common shareholders of $5.9 million, $24.6 million and $8.0 million in our fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We are taking action to become profitable and generate positive cash flow from operations. Specifically, we are enhancing our controls over project acceptance, which we believe will significantly reduce the level of contract losses; we are increasing the level of experience of our accounting personnel in order to improve internal controls and reduce compliance costs; we are improving the timeliness of customer invoicing, and enhancing our collection efforts, which we believe will result in fewer write-offs of project revenue and in lower levels of bad debt expense, reducing our reliance on our revolving credit agreement; and we are improving project management, which we believe will result in significantly higher levels of project profitability. If we are unable to improve our operating performance, we may not have sufficient working capital to fund our operations. Our loan agreement contains restrictive covenants. We finance our operations through borrowings under our credit facility and through cash generated by our operating activities. On July 17, 2006, we entered into a $50.0 million revolving credit facility and paid off the amount outstanding under the prior loan agreement. Our new credit facility contains covenants which, among other things, require us to: maintain minimum levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization; maintain a minimum level of backlog; and sets a maximum limit on capital expenditures. We did violate several covenants primarily related to maintenance of minimum EBITDA levels and the timing of the delivery of financial information to the lenders in fiscal 2007, all of which violations were waived by the lenders. Any future failure to comply with our covenants under our credit facility could result in events of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in prepayment obligations and also could result in higher fees or other costs. If we were forced to refinance borrowings under our credit facility, we can provide no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining such refinancing. Even if such refinancing were available, the terms could be less favorable, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased loan fees and interest rates on amounts borrowed. Our continuing failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC poses significant risks to our business, each of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We did not timely file with the SEC our Forms 10-K for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, or our interim reports on Forms 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and for fiscal 2007 and 2006. Consequently, we were not compliant with the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"). Our inability to 12 timely file our periodic reports with the SEC involves a number of potentially significant risks, including: •If the NYSE ceases to grant us extensions to file our periodic reports, it has the right to begin proceedings to delist our common stock. A delisting of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things: •reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; •reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; and •violating private placement stock purchase agreements. •A breach could be declared under our revolving credit facility if our lenders cease to grant us extensions to release our financial information, which may result in the lenders declaring our outstanding loans due and payable in whole or in part. •We may have difficulty retaining our clients and obtaining new clients and in obtaining project bonding. •We may have difficulty retaining or hiring key employees. •We are not eligible to use a registration statement to offer and sell publicly tradable securities, which prevents us from accessing the public capital markets and violates private placement stock purchase agreements. •Until we are current in our SEC filings, there will not be adequate current public information available to permit certain resales of restricted securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which could have a detrimental effect on our relations with individuals or entities who hold restricted securities. We are dependent on earnings and cash flow from operations to finance our growth. Our strategic objectives include continued expansion of value-added services. We depend on our core businesses to generate profits and cash flow to fund our growth. Although the services that we provide are spread across a variety of industries, disruptions such as a general economic downturn or higher interest rates could negatively affect the demand for our services across a variety of industries which could adversely affect our ability to generate profits and cash flows. We are dependent on contracts with the federal, state and local governments. We estimate that contracts with agencies of the U.S. government and various state and local governments represent approximately 20% of our net service revenue. Therefore, we are materially dependent on various contracts with such governmental agencies. Companies engaged in government contracting are subject to certain unique business risks. Among these risks are dependence on appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, and changing policies and regulations. These contracts may also be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination at the option of the government. The stability and continuity of that portion of our business depends on the periodic exercise by the government of contract renewal options, our continued ability to negotiate favorable terms and the continued awarding of task orders to us. We are and will continue to be involved in litigation. We have been, and likely will be, named as a defendant in legal actions claiming damages in connection with engineering and construction projects and other matters. These are typically actions that arise in the normal course of business, including employment-related claims, contractual disputes, 13 professional liability, or claims for personal injury or property damage. To date, we have been able to obtain liability insurance for the operation of our business. However, if we sustain damages that materially exceed our insurance coverage or that are not insured, there could be a material adverse effect on our liquidity which could impair our operations. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to loss of reputation and additional financial or performance obligations that could result in reduced profits or losses. We often hire subcontractors for our projects. The success of these projects depends, in varying degrees, on the satisfactory performance of our subcontractors. If our subcontractors do not meet their obligations, we may be unable to adequately perform and deliver our contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and expend additional resources to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations have resulted in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to certain projects. In addition, the inability of our subcontractors to adequately perform on certain projects could hurt our competitive reputation and ability to obtain future projects. Our operations could require us to utilize large sums of working capital, sometimes on short notice and sometimes without the ability to recover the expenditures. Circumstances or events which could create large cash outflows include losses resulting from fixed-price contracts, remediation of environmental liabilities, adverse legal awards, unexpected costs or losses resulting from acquisitions, project completion delays, failure of clients to pay, professional liability or personal injury claims, among others. We cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity or the credit capacity to meet all of our cash needs if we encounter significant working capital requirements as a result of these or other factors. If we must write off a significant amount of intangible assets or long-lived assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill was approximately $130.9 million as of June 30, 2007. We also have other identifiable intangible assets of $6.0 million, net of accumulated amortization as of June 30, 2007. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional goodwill and intangible assets on our financial statements. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, we reported a net loss applicable to common shareholders of $5.9 million. We reported a net loss applicable to common shareholders of $24.6 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, including impairment charges totaling $2.2 million relating to the write-off of trade names due to our decisions to both concentrate on enhancing our TRC brand and discontinue the use of numerous other brands in our continuing operations, and $0.3 million goodwill impairment related to the disposition of our Bellatrix Environmental Consultants, L.L.C. business unit, as well as a loss of $5.3 million before taxes on disposal related to our divestiture of the Pacific Land Design, Inc. and Pacific Land Design Roseville, Inc. entities (together "PacLand") within our discontinued operations. If we continue to report losses in the future, the likelihood of needing to record additional impairment charges increases. If a determination that a significant impairment in value of our goodwill, unamortized intangible assets or long-lived assets is made, such determination could require us to write off a substantial portion of our assets. Such a write off would materially affect our earnings and shareholders' equity. 14 If we must provide a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we reported net losses applicable to common shareholders of $5.9 million, $24.6 million and $8.0, respectively. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States require a valuation allowance to be established against net deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that those deferred tax assets will not be realized. At June 30, 2007, we had net deferred tax assets of $12.4 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet because we concluded at that date that it was more likely than not that these net deferred tax assets would be utilized. However, if losses are incurred in future periods, we would likely conclude that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be used which would result in our providing a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets and recording a charge in the consolidated statement of operations in the same amount. If we do not successfully implement our new enterprise resource planning system, our cash flows may be impaired and we may incur further costs to integrate or upgrade our systems. In fiscal 2007, we began implementation of a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, principally for accounting and project management. In May 2007, we converted all of our operating units to our new ERP system. In the event we do not complete the project according to plan, we may experience difficulty in accurately and timely reporting financial information. In addition, unforeseen complications could negatively impact project data flow and billing information which could result in reduced cash flows due to delays in issuing invoices to our clients or other reasons, which could adversely affect the timely collection of cash. Further, it is possible that the cost or schedule of completing this project could exceed our current projections and negatively impact future operating results. There are risks associated with acquisitions. A significant portion of our historic growth strategy has been through the acquisition of other companies. We may continue to acquire companies on a selective basis as an element of our long-term growth objectives. Acquisitions involve risks that include the risk of poor performance by the target company and the risk of not successfully integrating the target company into our operations. 15 Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and it may be difficult to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage or bonding capacity. Our services involve significant risks that may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. Our business activities expose us to potential liability for professional negligence, personal injury and property damage among other things. We cannot always predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. In addition, our ability to perform certain services is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate insurance as well as bid, performance and payment bonds. We obtain insurance from insurance companies to cover our potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay an excessive amount for the insurance coverage we want, or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. In addition, our ability to obtain bonding is dependent on financial performance and has been significantly curtailed by our late filing of financial reports. An inability to obtain certain insurance, as well as bonds, could result in our inability to provide certain services that could result in lower revenues, lower profits, or losses. Our liability for damages due to legal proceedings may harm our operating results or financial condition. Various legal proceedings are currently pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings with certainty. In some actions, parties are seeking damages that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured. In addition, certain of our insurance policies have substantial deductibles. If we sustain damages that exceed our insurance coverage or that are not covered by insurance, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims. Our engagements involve a variety of projects, some of which are large-scale and complex. Our performance on projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. If we miscalculate, or fail to properly manage, the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time we need to meet contractual obligations, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, any defects, errors or failures to meet our clients' expectations could result in claims against us. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profits. We account for a significant portion of our contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Generally, our use of this method results in recognition of revenue and profit ratably over the life of the contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and estimated costs, including the achievement of award and other fees, is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. The uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary from estimates that could result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit. Such differences could be material. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the 16 actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include: underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays, price increases for materials, poor project management or quality problems, and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Accounting for a fixed-price contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue and estimated costs as well as technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall revenue or costs on a contract, we may experience a lower profit or incur a loss on the contract. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments, and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results. Our net contract backlog as of June 30, 2007 was approximately $285.0 million. We cannot guarantee that the net service revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur from time to time with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. Risks Related to Our Industry We are dependent on continued regulatory enforcement. While we increasingly pursue economically driven markets, our business is materially dependent on the continued enforcement by federal, state and local governments of various environmental regulations. Changes in environmental standards or enforcement, could adversely impact our business. We operate in highly competitive industries. The markets for many of our services are highly competitive. There are numerous professional architectural, engineering and consulting firms and other organizations which offer many of the services offered by us. We compete with many companies, some of which have greater resources than we do. Competitive factors include reputation, performance, price, geographic location and availability of technically skilled personnel. In addition, we face competition from the use by our clients of in-house staff. Changes in existing environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies 17 regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services that may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Other Risks The value of our equity securities could continue to be volatile. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: •Our financial results, including revenue, profits, days sales outstanding, backlog, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; •Announcements by us or our competitors of significant events, including acquisitions; •Resolution of threatened or pending litigation; •Changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of our business or any of our competitors' businesses; •Investors' and analysts' assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; •Changes in legislation; •Broader market fluctuations; •General economic or political conditions; •Material internal control weaknesses; •Continued failure to timely file periodic reports; and •Stock exchange delisting. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees. Many of these key employees are granted stock options and restricted stock, the value of which is dependent on the performance of our stock price. We may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regulations, and New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating additional disclosure and other compliance and remediation requirements for us. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance and remediation activities. 18 We have established a new management team. During the past three years, we have made substantial changes in our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and President. In addition, a number of other management positions have recently been filled. Because of the lack of familiarity of the new management team with our company, there is the risk that our new management team will not be able to execute our business plan and that initiatives could be implemented that would adversely affect the business. We are highly dependent on key personnel. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We need talented and experienced personnel in a number of areas to support our core business activities. An inability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel could harm our business. Turnover among certain critical staff could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our strategies and on our results of operations. There is currently a shortage of technical and engineering personnel. We face risks in connection with our ability to successfully centralize the administrative functions for our subsidiaries into our corporate headquarters. During 2007, we began to transition most of the administrative functions for our subsidiaries to a centralized shared service center location. We face certain risks in connection with this undertaking, including: •The risk that we may face unforeseen delays in centralizing the administrative functions of our subsidiaries; •The risk that the costs and disruptions associated with centralizing our administrative functions may exceed the benefits and savings we expect to receive from creating the shared service center; and •The risk that we may lose employees who are important to our business as a result of relocating and centralizing these administrative functions. We face continuing risks in connection with our current project to implement a new enterprise resource system for our business. These risks include: •The risk that we may face further delays in the design and implementation of that system in all of our operations; •The risk that the cost of that system may exceed our current plans and expectations; •The risk that such system may continue to impact our ability to process transactions and to fulfill and invoice orders and that such impact will adversely affect our revenue, operating results, cash flow and working capital; and •The risk that the operation or design of such system may contribute to weaknesses in our internal controls over the financial reporting. 19 We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact negatively our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. We have identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Due to the transitional issues associated with a new single enterprise-wide reporting and management software platform and the timing of its implementation, we were unable to complete the documentation and testing of our internal controls as of June 30, 2007. Because of this, as well as material weaknesses identified in prior periods which were not remediated as of June 30, 2007, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2007 based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations by the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures." Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the number of material weaknesses identified, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in additional restatements. Moreover, other material weaknesses may be identified. We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of remediating all of the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during 2008 and perhaps beyond. For a detailed description of our remedial efforts, see Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures." There can be no assurance as to when all of the material weaknesses will be remedied. Until our remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, and we will continue to incur expenses associated with the additional procedures and resources required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Certain of our remedial actions, such as hiring additional qualified personnel to implement our reconciliation and review procedures, will be ongoing and will result in our incurring additional costs. If our internal control over financial reporting remains ineffective, our business and prospects may suffer. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions, including a delisting from NYSE, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our Common Stock. Further, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 