D. Risk Factors An investment in our company involves a number of risks, some of which may be special or significantly different from risks that are normally associated with an investment in a U.S. company. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks in investing in our company, along with the other information presented in this annual report. Fuel supply and costs The availability and costs of the aviation fuel has a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, jet fuel shortages have occurred in China and, on limited occasions, required us to delay or cancel flights. Although jet fuel shortages have not occurred since the end of 1993, we cannot assure you that jet fuel shortages will not occur in the future. Fuel prices continue to be susceptible to, among other factors, political unrest in various parts of the world, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries policy, the rapid growth of economies in China and India, the levels of inventory carried by industries, the amounts of reserves built by governments, disruptions to production and refining facilities and weather. These and other factors that impact the global supply and demand for aircraft fuel may affect our financial performance due to its sensitivity to fuel prices. Our financial performance may be especially susceptible to recent trends of escalating fuel prices worldwide. Between May 31, 2005 and May 31, 2006, the official domestic fuel price in China increased by 19.9%. This increase is consistent with other incidents of rising fuel prices that we have seen during the past few years, and there can be no assurance that fuel prices will remain constant or decline in the future. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our operating costs and, in 2005, accounted for approximately 32.1% of our operating expenses. Between 2004 and 2005, our expenses for fuel rose by 63.7%, partially as a result of increased weighted average domestic adn international fuel prices, and partially as a result of the expansion of our fleet. Between 2004 and 2005, the weighted average domestic and international fuel prices that we paid increased by approximately 24.5% and 39.8%, respectively. Due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry and government regulation on airfare pricing, we may be unable to fully or effectively pass on to our customers any increased fuel costs we may encounter in the future. Any jet fuel shortages or any increase in domestic or international jet fuel price may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we may hedge some of our future fuel purchases to protect against potential spikes in price. However, these hedging strategies may not always be effective and can result in losses depending on price changes. Competition We face intense competition in each of the domestic, Hong Kong regional and international markets that we serve. In our domestic markets, we compete against smaller domestic airline companies that operate with costs that are lower than ours. We also increasingly face competition from entrants to our domestic markets, as new investments into China’s civil aviation industry are made following the CAAC’s relaxation of certain private-sector investment rules in July 2005. See the section headed “