ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. We will not be successful if the interventional medical device community does not adopt our new products or services. We have launched over 80 new products or services since 2003. Our success will depend on the continued launch of new products and services and the medical community’s acceptance of our new products and services. We cannot predict how quickly, if at all, the medical community will accept our new products and services, or, if accepted, the continuation or extent of their use. Our potential customers must: · believe that our products or services offer benefits compared to the methodologies and/or devices that they are currently using; · use our products or services and obtain acceptable clinical outcomes; · believe that our products or services are worth the price that they will be asked to pay; and · be willing to commit the time and resources required to change their current methodology. Because we are often selling a new technology, we have limited ability to predict the level of growth or timing of sales of these products or services. If we encounter difficulties in growing our sales of our new medical devices or services, our business will be seriously harmed. We are involved in, and may face additional, intellectual property litigation, which could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or services or result in us incurring substantial costs and liabilities. The interventional medical device industry is characterized by numerous patent filings. As a result, participants in the industry frequently experience substantial intellectual property litigation. Some companies in the interventional medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. In addition, non-practicing patent assertion entities have accumulated patent rights related to the medical device industry and are asserting them against operating companies in an attempt to collect settlements or licensing fees. Intellectual property litigation has proven to be very complex, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. While we do not believe that any of our products or services infringe any existing patent or other intellectual property right, we have been, and are, involved in substantial intellectual property litigation and expect to continue to become subject to intellectual property claims with respect to our new or existing products or services. On February 14, 2013, Terumo Corporation and Terumo Medical Corporation (Terumo) filed a complaint for patent and trademark infringement against us and Lepu Medical Technology (Beijing) Co. in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The complaint alleged that a prior version of the Vasc Band radial compression device manufactured by Lepu Medical Technology infringed a Terumo patent. On October 11, 2013, we reached an agreement with Terumo to settle the litigation. Under the settlement, we made a one-time payment to Terumo in the amount of $812,500 and Terumo agreed that the current design of our Vasc Band product does not infringe any claim of any issued Terumo patent and agreed that it will not sue the Company on any future issued patent concerning the current design of the Vasc Band product. 20 On May 16, 2013, we filed a patent and copyright infringement complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota against Boston Scientific Corporation alleging that it is infringing three of our United States patents by manufacturing and selling its Guidezilla guide extension catheter. Boston Scientific filed a counterclaim alleging that our GuideLiner catheter infringes a Boston Scientific patent that has recently expired. We cannot be sure of the outcome of our claim or the counterclaim. If we prevail in our claim, we cannot be sure whether any remedy will adequately protect our intellectual property. If Boston Scientific prevails in its counterclaim, we may be required to pay damages. An adverse determination in any intellectual property litigation or interference proceedings against us could prohibit us from selling a product or service, subject us to significant immediate payments to third parties and require us to seek licenses from third parties. The costs associated with these license arrangements may be substantial and could include substantial up-front payments and ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a product or service. Our involvement in intellectual property claims, whether ongoing or filed in the future and regardless of the merits of any asserted claim against us, could divert the attention of our technical and management personnel away from the development and marketing of our products and services for significant periods of time. Furthermore, the penalties involved with an adverse outcome may be severe, and the costs incurred related to defending such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, even if we ultimately prevail in them. The medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices, and we currently are the subject of a pending government criminal investigation. A governmental criminal investigation could result in the commencement of litigation, indictment of the company, substantial fines, penalties and administrative remedies, including the potential disqualification from participation in government health care programs including Medicare and Medicaid. An adverse determination in the current government criminal investigation or any future civil or criminal litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate our business as currently conducted and negatively impact our financial results and stock price. The products and business activities of medical device companies are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and other federal, state and international governmental authorities under statutes and regulations governing health care fraud. The U.S. Attorney’s Offices have increased their scrutiny over the medical device industry in recent years. The U.S. Congress, Department of Justice, Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, and Department of Defense have all issued subpoenas and other requests for information to conduct investigations of, and commenced civil and criminal litigation against, medical device manufacturers, primarily related to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices. During 2012, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Texas intervened in a qui tam civil lawsuit initiated against us involving allegations of off-label promotion of our Vari-Lase Short Kit endovenous laser product (see Item 3 – Legal Proceedings: Governmental Proceedings of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013). Subsequently, we learned that the U.S. Attorney’s Office has commenced a criminal investigation of the same matter. On January 22, 2014, we agreed with the U.S. Attorney’s Office to settle the civil lawsuit. The terms of the settlement are that we will make a payment of $520,000, we will make no admission of fault or liability, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office will dismiss the civil lawsuit with prejudice and release all civil claims that were, or could have been, brought against us in the civil lawsuit. Settlement of the civil lawsuit will have no effect upon the criminal investigation, which we expect will continue. 21 We cannot predict when the criminal investigation will be resolved, the outcome of the investigation, its impact on us, or whether other federal or state legal or regulatory authorities will initiate additional related or unrelated investigations or lawsuits against us. The outcome of a criminal investigation could include substantial fines, penalties and administrative remedies such as a deferred prosecution agreement or corporate integrity agreement, or the indictment of the company or its officers. Upon conviction of a felony under statutes related to health care fraud, the company would become automatically excluded from participation in government health care programs including Medicare and Medicaid, which would substantially adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business. The cost of defense of any potential criminal litigation could be material and could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business. These potential consequences of the current investigation, as well as consequences of any future governmental investigation or lawsuit of any related or unrelated matter, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. The ongoing introduction of new products and services that affect our overall product mix make the prediction of future operating results difficult. You should not rely on our past revenue growth as any indication of future growth rates or operating results. The price of our common stock will likely fall in the event that our operating results do not meet the expectations of analysts and investors. Comparisons of our operating results between quarters are an unreliable indication of our future performance because they are likely to vary significantly based on many factors, including: · the level of sales of our products and services in our markets; · our ability to introduce new products or services and enhancements in a timely manner; · the demand for, and acceptance of, our products and services; · the success of our competition and the introduction of alternative products or services; · our ability to command favorable pricing for our products and services; · the growth of the market for our products and services; · the expansion and rate of success of our direct sales force in the United States and our independent distributors internationally; · actions relating to ongoing FDA compliance; · the effects of intellectual property disputes; · the effects of government investigations and litigation; · the size and timing of orders from independent distributors or customers; · the attraction and retention of key personnel, particularly in sales and marketing, regulatory, manufacturing and research and development; · unanticipated delays or an inability to control costs; · general economic conditions, as well as those specific to our customers and markets; and · seasonal fluctuations in revenue due to the elective nature of some procedures. 22 We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. The manufacture and sale of medical products entails significant risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, cause us to incur significant liabilities and divert our management’s time, attention and resources. We cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The market for interventional medical devices and services is highly competitive and will likely become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products or services obsolete. The existing market for interventional medical devices and services is intensely competitive. We expect competition to increase further as companies develop new products and services or modify their existing products and services to compete directly with ours. Each of our products and services encounters competition from several medical device companies, including Medtronic Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation and Covidien plc. Each of these companies has: · better name recognition; · broader product lines; · greater sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; · significantly greater financial resources; · larger research and development staffs and facilities; and · existing relationships with some of our potential customers. We may not be able to effectively compete with these companies. In addition, broad product lines may allow our competitors to negotiate exclusive, long-term supply contracts and offer comprehensive pricing for their products or services. Broader product lines may also provide our competitors with a significant advantage in marketing competing products or services to group purchasing organizations and other managed care organizations that are increasingly seeking to reduce costs through centralized purchasing. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products or services obsolete. We rely on continued development and improvement of our products and service, which if not successful, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are continually engaged in developing new products and services and improving our existing products and services. New or improved products and services represent a significant component of our sales growth. We dedicate significant financial and managerial resources to product and services development and improvement. We may not achieve our development objectives within our schedule and budget, or at all, due to technical or operational challenges. Failure to achieve our development objectives on schedule may increase our development expenses and adversely impact our revenues. If we do achieve our development objectives, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new or improved products or services, and we may not be successful in marketing and selling such products or services. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or successfully market and sell new or improved products and services could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. 23 Constraints or interruption in production from any of our key suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the interest of operational efficiency and due to quality considerations, we obtain some of the components for the products that we manufacture from a sole source. If the availability of components from a sole source of supply is constrained or interrupted, there is no assurance that we could find an alternative source of supply quickly and cost effectively, if at all. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and equivalent regulatory entities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. Unavailability of components could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell products and our results of operations. We also distribute finished products that are available only from their manufacturer. In addition, the reprocessing services that we offer are performed by a single provider. Operational, quality or regulatory issues the manufacturer of the products we distribute, or the provider of our reprocessing services, could constrain or interrupt the availability of those products or services. Any constrain or interruption in supply of finished products that we distribute, or the reprocessing services that we offer, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell products and services to customers, our financial condition and our results of operations. Our international sales are subject to a number of risks that could seriously harm our ability to successfully commercialize our products and services in any international market. Our international sales are subject to several risks, including: · the ability of our independent distributors to sell our products and services; · the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; · greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers; · weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · political and economic instability. 24 The occurrence of any of these events could seriously harm our future international sales and our ability to successfully commercialize our products and services in any international market. Our business and services and results of operations may be seriously harmed by changes in third-party reimbursement policies. We could be seriously harmed by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors, particularly to the extent any changes affect reimbursement for catheterization procedures in which our products or services are used. Failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products or services to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payors for procedures in which our products or services are used, or adverse changes in governmental and private third-party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for such procedures, would seriously harm our business. In the United States, healthcare providers, including hospitals and clinics that purchase medical devices or services such as our products and services, generally rely on third-party payors, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to reimburse all or part of the cost of catheterization procedures. Any changes in this reimbursement system could seriously harm our business. In international markets, acceptance of our products and services is dependent in part upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals could have a negative impact on market acceptance of our products and services in the markets in which these approvals are sought. Our products and services and our manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could prevent us from selling our products or services in the United States or introducing new and improved products or services. Our products and services and our manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies. We are required to: · obtain the clearance of the FDA and international agencies before we can market and sell our products and services; · satisfy these agencies’ content requirements for all of our labeling, sales and promotional materials; and · undergo rigorous inspections by these agencies. Compliance with the regulations of these agencies may delay or prevent us from introducing any new model of our existing products or other new products or services. Furthermore, we may be subject to sanctions, including temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls and marketing restrictions if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business. We are also required to demonstrate compliance with the FDA’s quality system regulations. The FDA enforces its quality system regulations through pre-approval and periodic post-approval inspections. These regulations relate to product testing, vendor qualification, design control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we are unable to conform to these regulations, the FDA may take actions which could seriously harm our business. In addition, government regulation may be established that could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory clearance or approval of our products or services. 25 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 