Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors listed below, in addition to those described elsewhere in this report, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Risks Related to Our CompanyOur business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract.We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur in performing the work, and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include: underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays, price increases for materials, poor project management or quality problems, and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values, and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Accounting for a fixed-price contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue and estimated costs as well as technical issues. The uncertainties inherent in the 10Table of Contentsestimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary from estimates, or estimates to change, resulting in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit. Such differences could be material.Our engagements involve a variety of projects, some of which are large-scale and complex. Our performance on projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. If we miscalculate, or fail to properly manage, the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time we need to meet contractual obligations, our operating results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, any defects, errors or failures to meet our clients' expectations could result in claims against us.Exit Strategy projects typically involve complex multi-year environmental remediation which must be approved by regulators both as to remedial approach as well as the achievement of the final result. Exit Strategy projects were typically funded by a deposit by the client of most of the contract price into a restricted account with an insurer as well as an insurance layer to cover costs above the restricted account up to a monetary policy limit. The policies were also limited to a fixed term of years. To the extent the costs to complete a project exceed the amount in the restricted account or policy limit or the project is not completed within the policy term, we could incur an uncovered loss on such a project.If we miss a required performance standard, fail to timely complete, or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, we may incur a loss on that project which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may incur additional costs or be held responsible for damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel and resources needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, changes in the project scope, unanticipated site conditions or labor or other disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet the required schedule or performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates or, in some cases, cause a loss which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability.Subcontractor performance and pricing could result in reduced profits or losses.We often hire subcontractors for our projects. The success of these projects depends, in varying degrees, on the satisfactory performance of our subcontractors and our ability to successfully manage subcontractor costs and pass them through to our customers. If our subcontractors do not meet their obligations or we are unable to manage or pass through costs, we may be unable to profitably perform and deliver our contracted services. Under these circumstances we may be required to make additional investments and expend additional resources to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. In the past, these additional obligations have resulted in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to certain projects. In addition, the inability of our subcontractors to adequately perform or our inability to manage subcontractor costs on certain projects could hurt our competitive reputation and ability to obtain future projects.We could incur a significant loss in the future. If we incur significant losses or are unable to generate sufficient working capital from our operations or our revolving credit facility, we may have to seek additional external financing.As reflected in our consolidated financial statements, in fiscal years 2013 and 2012 we reported net income applicable to our common shareholders of $36.3 million and $33.6 million, respectively, but in fiscal year 2011 we reported a net loss of $(16.6) million. During fiscal year 2011, we incurred a $17.3 million charge relating to the Arena Towers litigation expense. In addition we recorded significant non-cash preferred stock accretion charges of $7.3 million. Operating performance has, however, improved, and we are continuing to take actions to maintain and increase profitability. Nevertheless, if we are unable to maintain operating performance we may incur additional losses. We depend on our core businesses to generate profits and cash flow to fund our working capital growth.We finance our operations through cash generated by operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility with RBS Citizens, N.A. While we have rarely used our current and prior credit facilities since our $15.5 million preferred stock offering in fiscal year 2010, we are dependent on the revolving credit facility for any short term liquidity needs when available cash and cash equivalents and cash provided by operations are not adequate to support working capital requirements. The credit facility contains covenants which, among other things, require us to maintain minimum levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization as defined in the credit agreement ("EBITDA"), maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and not exceed a maximum leverage ratio. 11Table of ContentsWe may not be able to generate sufficient profits to realize the benefit of our net deferred tax assets. We establish valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is insufficient evidence that we will be able to realize the benefit of these deferred tax assets. We reassess our ability to realize deferred tax assets as facts and circumstances dictate. If after future assessments of our ability to realize the deferred tax assets, we determine that a lesser or greater allowance is required, we record a reduction or increase to the income tax expense and the valuation allowance in the period of such determination. The uncertainty surrounding the future realization of our net deferred tax assets could adversely impact our results of operations.If we must write off a significant amount of intangible assets or long-lived assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted.Goodwill was approximately $28.8 million as of June 30, 2013. We also had other identifiable intangible assets of $8.1 million, net of accumulated amortization, as of June 30, 2013. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. A decline in the estimated future cash flows of our reporting units, declines in market multiples of comparable companies and other factors could result in impairments of goodwill or other assets which would negatively impact our earnings or result in a net loss.We are and will continue to be involved in litigation. Legal defense and settlement expenses can have a material adverse impact on our operating results.We have been, and likely will be, named as a defendant in legal actions claiming damages and other relief in connection with engineering and construction projects and other matters. These are typically actions that arise in the normal course of business, including employment-related claims, contractual disputes, professional liability, or claims for personal injury or property damage. We have substantial deductibles on several of our insurance policies, and not all claims are insured. In addition, we have also incurred legal defense and settlement expenses related to prior acquisitions. Accordingly, defense costs, settlements and potential damage awards may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods. Our operations could require us to utilize large sums of working capital, sometimes on short notice and sometimes without the ability to recover the expenditures.Circumstances or events which could create large cash outflows include losses resulting from fixed-price contracts, remediation of environmental liabilities, legal expenses and settlements, project completion delays, failure of clients to pay, income tax assessments and professional liability claims, among others. We cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity or the credit capacity to meet all of our cash needs if we encounter significant working capital requirements as a result of these or other factors.Our services expose us to significant risks of liability, and it may be difficult or more costly to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage.Our services involve significant risks that may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. Our business activities expose us to potential liability for professional negligence, personal injury and property damage among other things. We cannot always predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. In addition, our ability to perform certain services is dependent on the availability of adequate insurance.We obtain insurance from insurance companies to cover a portion of our potential risks and liabilities subject to specified policy limits, deductibles or coinsurance. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs or may have to pay an excessive amount for the insurance coverage we want. In addition, we may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. Almost all of the cost cap and related insurance purchased by Exit Strategy clients has been underwritten by AIG. The Exit Strategy related policies all tend to be long term; many are ten years or more. Some policies also serve to satisfy state and federal financial assurance requirements for certain projects, and without these policies, alternative financial assurance arrangements would need to be arranged. Additionally, most of our Exit Strategy projects require us to perform the work in the event insurance limits are exhausted, directly exposing us to financial risks.We are self-insured or carry deductibles for a significant portion of our claims exposure, which could materially and adversely affect our operating income and profitability. We are self-insured or carry deductibles for a portion of our claims exposure. Because of these deductibles and self-insured retention amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase in the future. Under certain conditions, we may elect or be required to increase our self-insured or deductible amounts, which would increase our exposure to expense from claims. If any claim exceeds our coverage, we would bear the excess expense in addition to our other self-insured amounts. If the frequency or severity of claims or our expenses increase, our operating income and profitability could be materially adversely affected. 12Table of ContentsOur profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain adequate utilization of our workforce. As a service organization, the percentage of our employees' time that is chargeable to clients (utilization) is a key factor. The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a number of factors, including: •Our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees; •Our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; •Our ability to manage attrition; •Our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities; and •Our ability to match the skill sets of our employees to the needs of the marketplace. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results.Our contract backlog based on NSR as of June 30, 2013 was approximately $247 million. We cannot guarantee that the NSR projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur from time to time with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future revenue or earnings.Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may not be successful. We expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy; that we don't realize a satisfactory return on our investment; that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, technology, and cultures; or that management's attention is diverted from our other businesses. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits of acquisitions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated, or may not be realized. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition.If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our expected future growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to increase the capacity of our management information systems and maintain strong internal systems and controls. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain management and professional employees. The inability of our management to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and conditions in the markets we address. The current state of the domestic economy and the possibility that economic conditions may not improve or may deteriorate may affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. While management cannot directly measure it or predict it, variability in the economy and any corollary impact on the availability of credit could affect our customers and vendors and could result in a decrease in their business with us which could adversely affect our ability to generate profits and cash flows.General economic uncertainty may impact the ability of our clients and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to slow spending on services. These conditions have also made it difficult for us to estimate the short-term and long-term impacts on our business. We cannot predict overall economic conditions. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from the level experienced in fiscal year 2013, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 13Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our IndustryChanges in existing environmental laws, regulations and programs or reductions in the level of regulatory enforcement could reduce demand for our environmental services which could cause our revenue to decline.While we pursue markets for our services that are economically driven, our business is also materially dependent on the continued enforcement by federal, state and local governments of various environmental regulations. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to environmental protection. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services that may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and business prospects.We operate in highly competitive industries.The markets for many of our services are highly competitive. There are numerous professional architectural, engineering and consulting firms and other organizations which offer many of the services offered by us. We compete with many companies, some of which have greater resources. Competitive factors include reputation, performance, price, geographic location and technical capabilities. In addition, many clients also use in-house staff to perform the same types of services we do.We are materially dependent on contracts with federal, state and local governments. Our inability to continue to win or renew government contracts could result in material reductions in our revenues and profits.We have increased our business with the federal, state and local governments in recent years and are materially dependent on such contracts. We estimate that contracts with agencies of the United States government and various state and local governments represented approximately 22% of our NSR in fiscal year 2013. Companies engaged in government contracting are subject to certain unique business risks. Among these risks are dependence on appropriations and administrative allotment of funds as well as changing policies and regulations. These contracts may also be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination at the option of the government. The stability and continuity of that portion of our business depends on the periodic exercise by the government of contract renewal options, our continued ability to negotiate favorable terms and the continued awarding of task orders to us. We are subject to procurement laws and regulations associated with our government contracts. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be prohibited from completing our existing government contracts or suspended from government contracting and subcontracting for some period of time or debarred. Our compliance with the laws and regulations relating to the procurement, administration, and performance of government contracts is dependent upon our ability to properly design and execute appropriate procedures. Our termination from any of our larger government contracts or suspension from future government contracts for any reason would result in material declines in expected revenue. Because government agencies have the ability to terminate a contract for convenience, the agencies could terminate or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. Our government contracts are subject to audit. These audits may result in the determination that certain costs claimed as reimbursable are not allowable or have not been properly allocated. We are subject to audits for several years after payment for services has been received. Based on these audits, government entities may adjust or seek reimbursement for previously paid amounts. None of the audits performed to date on our government contracts have resulted in any significant adjustments to our financial statements. It is possible, however, that an audit in the future could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Reductions in state and local government budgets could negatively impact their capital spending and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of our state and local government clients are currently facing budget deficits, resulting in smaller budgets and reduced capital spending. Our state and local government clients may continue to face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. If we are not able to respond to the revenue decline from these clients that may occur, our operating results could be adversely affected. Other RisksWe are highly dependent on key personnel.The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and personal client relationships are critical to our success. We need talented and experienced personnel to support our business activities. An inability to attract 14Table of Contentsand retain the right people would harm our business. Turnover among certain critical staff could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our strategies and on our results of operations. Our actual business and financial results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. For example, we typically recognize revenue over the life of a fixed-price contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared to the total costs estimated to be incurred for the entire project. Changes in those cost estimates can reduce or increase the percentage of the revenue recognized at any point in time.Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: •The application of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims;•Provisions for uncollectible receivables and client claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others;•Provisions for income taxes and uncertain tax positions;•Value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets;•Valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations;•Estimated earnout payments due in connection with business combinations;•Valuation of self-insured reserves;•Valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and•Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves.Safety related issues could result in significant losses. We often work on large-scale and complex projects, sometimes in geographically remote locations which can place our employees and others near large equipment, dangerous processes or highly regulated materials, and in challenging environments. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid on contracts, and some of our contract fees or profits are subject to satisfying safety criteria. Unsafe work conditions also can increase employee turnover, project and operating costs. We are responsible for the safety of our employees at work, and, on occasion on certain projects, we take on expanded site safety responsibilities. If our employees or others become injured, or if we fail to implement appropriate health and safety procedures, we could be subject to claims and liability. In addition, if our overall safety performance falls below certain levels we may be foreclosed from bidding on work with certain clients.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock.Effective internal controls are important for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We devote significant attention to establishing and maintaining effective internal controls. Implementing changes to our internal controls has entailed substantial costs in order to modify our accounting systems. Although these measures are designed to do so, we cannot be certain that such measures and future measures will guarantee that we will successfully maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting processes and related reporting requirements. Internal controls that are found to not be operating effectively could affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock.We rely on third-party, internal and web-based software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. As a result, any sudden failure, unavailability, disruption or unexpected costs to maintain these systems could significantly increase our operational expense and disrupt the management of our business operations. We rely on third-party software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. We also depend on our software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems. Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems in which case we may need to abandon one or more of our current information systems and migrate some or all of our accounting, project management and financial information to other systems, thus increasing our operational expense and disrupting the management of our business operations. 15Table of ContentsOur information technology systems, processes, and sites may suffer interruptions, failures, or attacks which could affect the Company's ability to conduct its business.Our information technology systems provide critical data connectivity, information and services for internal and external users. These interactions include, but are not limited to, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, storage of project information and other processes necessary to manage the business. Like other companies, our computer systems face the threat of unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, cyber-attacks and other security problems and system disruptions. We have adopted security precautions for our critical systems, including establishment of back-up data centers. However, if our information technology systems are damaged, or cease to function properly due to a number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages or security breaches resulting in unauthorized access, and our business continuity plans and security precautions do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or the loss of information, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations.Our adoption of, and compliance with, changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results.The value of our equity securities could continue to be volatile.Our stock is thinly traded, and over time has experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price characteristics of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees. Many of these key employees are granted stock options and restricted stock (the value of which is dependent on our stock price) as an element of compensation.Extraordinary events, including natural disasters and terrorist actions could negatively impact the economies in which we operate or disrupt our operations which may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Extraordinary events beyond our control, such as natural and man-made disasters, as well as terrorist actions, could negatively impact us by causing the closure of offices, interrupting projects and forcing the relocation of employees. If we are not able to react quickly to these sorts of events, our operations may be affected, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.