D. Risk Factors Our shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. We are operating in unprecedented times, as global economies and global capital markets deal with a significant economic crisis. Businesses in virtually all industries are dealing with an economic environment that may be unprecedented in terms of the rate and pace of change in end-market demand and global economic uncertainty. In this environment, visibility of end-market demand is more uncertain, there could be an increased risk of business failures among competitors, suppliers and customers. If these failures were to occur, this could negatively impact many aspects of our business including revenue and our operating profitability, asset utilization, increased accelerated pricing pressure, additional restructuring activities, market share shifts of existing programs, write-down of inventories and the failure to collect accounts receivables. Additionally, the weaker economic environment could result in significant volatility in currency fluctuation, which could also impact our operating profitability and increase other expenses related to running a global operation. While we have significant cash invested in short-term, high-quality financial instruments including money market funds and certificates of deposits with global banking leaders, we cannot guarantee that these deposits can be protected if the global economy and capital markets continue to experience significant and prolonged weakness. 4 Table of Contents The global economic conditions and credit crisis may well accelerate or exacerbate the effect of the various risk factors described in this Annual Report as well as result in other unforeseen events that will affect our business and financial condition. We are in an industry comprised of numerous competitors and aggressive pricing dynamics. We are in a highly competitive industry. We compete on a global basis to provide electronics manufacturing services and solutions to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the communications, enterprise computing, consumer, industrial, aerospace and defense, alternative energy and healthcare markets. Our competitors include major domestic and foreign companies such as Benchmark Electronics Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Sanmina-SCI Corporation, as well as smaller EMS companies that often have a regional, product, service or industry specific focus. In addition, original design manufacturers (ODMs), companies that provide internally designed products and manufacturing services to OEMs, continue to increase their share of outsourced manufacturing services across several markets and product groups, including personal computer motherboards, notebook and desktop computers, and cell phones. While we do not generally participate in these segments, and we have not, to date, encountered significant direct competition from ODMs in the end-markets in which we participate, such competition may increase if our business in these markets grows, or if ODMs expand further into, or beyond, these markets. We also face indirect competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and prospective customers, as these companies could choose to manufacture products internally rather than to outsource to EMS providers. Some of our competitors have a greater production presence in lower-cost geographies, as well as greater manufacturing, financial, procurement, research and development and marketing resources than we have. While we have increased the amount of capacity we have in lower-cost regions over the past several years, lower-cost regions may not provide the same operational benefits they have in the past as these regions are also being impacted by the global economic crisis. As a result, we may experience increased pricing pressure and other competitive pressures as the competitive landscape in lower-cost regions adjusts to the current economic environment. Additionally, our current or potential competitors may also increase or shift their presence in lower-cost regions to try to offset current end-market weakness or develop or acquire services comparable or superior to those we develop, combine or merge to form larger competitors, or adapt more quickly than we will to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition has caused and may continue to cause excessive pricing pressures, increased working capital requirements, reduced profit or loss of market share (from both program and customer disengagements), any of which could materially and adversely affect us. The current global economic crisis may also increase the competitive environment in all these areas which could impact our profitability. In addition, the EMS industry has excess manufacturing capacity and has seen increased competition from Asian competitors, which may begin to expand into new end-markets. These factors have exerted and will continue to exert additional pressures on pricing for components and services, thereby increasing the competitive pressures in the EMS industry. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on a limited number of customers, primarily within the communications, enterprise computing and consumer markets, for a substantial portion of our revenue. A decline in revenue from these customers or a loss of a large customer could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2008, we had no individual customer that represented more than 10% of our total 2008 revenue. Our top 10 customers in 2008 represented 63% of our total 2008 revenue. Our two largest customers in 2007 were Cisco Systems and Sun Microsystems, each of which represented more than 10% of our total 2007 revenue and in aggregate represented 21% of our total 2007 revenue. Our top 10 customers in 2007 represented 61% of our total 2007 revenue. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. To reduce this reliance, we have been targeting new customers and new business opportunities in our traditional segments, as well as newer markets such as industrial, aerospace and defense, alternative energy and healthcare markets. 5 Table of Contents Although we generally enter into master supply agreements with our customers, the level of business to be transacted under those agreements is not guaranteed. Instead, we bid on a project by project basis and typically have supply contracts or purchase orders in place for a specific project. We are dependent on customers to fulfill the terms associated with these orders and/or contracts. In addition, some of our customers routinely reduce or delay the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us. There is no assurance that present or future large customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce, or delay the volume of manufacturing services they order from us, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Significant reductions in, or the loss of, revenue from any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, the ramping of new program wins from new or existing customers can take from several months to more than a year before production starts. During this start-up period, these programs are subject to significant change or outright cancellation, in contrast to the initial expectations at the time of winning the new business, due to changes in end-market demand or changes in product viability in the marketplace. We are dependent on customers operating in highly competitive markets and the inability of our customers to succeed in their markets can adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The end markets we serve can experience major swings in demand which, in turn, can significantly impact our operations. Our financial performance depends on our customers' ability to compete and succeed in their markets, which could be affected directly by the current global economic conditions. The majority of our customers' products are characterized by rapid changes in technologies, increased standardization of technologies and shortening of product lifecycles. In many instances, our customers have experienced severe revenue erosion, pricing and margin pressures, and excess inventories during the past few years. We have recently increased the amount of our business in the consumer segment, which is characterized by shorter product lifecycles, significant increases and decreases of program volumes based on strength in end-market demand, rapid changes in consumer preferences for these products and devices, and greater ease in shifting these products among EMS competitors. The increased exposure to this segment may make revenue more volatile. During the latter part of 2006 and in 2007, we experienced unexpected reductions in demand from our customers in the telecommunications segment, driven primarily by the weaker demand in North America, and from recent consolidations in the industry. Inherent difficulties in managing capacity utilization and unanticipated changes in customer orders place strains on our planning and supply chain execution and may affect our results of operations. Our customers are increasingly dependent on EMS providers for new product introductions and rapid response times to meet changes in volume requirements. Most of our customers typically do not commit to firm production schedules for more than 30 to 90 days in advance and we often experience volatility in customers' orders. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue can occur in the last month of the quarter and could be subject to change or cancellation that will affect our quarter-to-quarter results. Accordingly, we cannot always forecast the level of customer orders with certainty. This can make it difficult to order appropriate levels of materials and to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In addition, customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, or delay production for a number of reasons. Furthermore, in order to guarantee continuity of supply for many of our customers, we are required to manufacture and hold a specified amount of finished goods in our warehouses for our customers. The uncertainty of our customers' end-markets, intense competition in our customers' industries and general order volume volatility have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying or canceling the delivery of some of the products we manufacture for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Changes in customers' orders could also cause a delay in the repayment to us for inventory expenditures we incurred in preparation for the customer's orders or, in certain circumstances, require us to return the inventory to our suppliers, re-sell the inventory or continue to hold the inventory, any of which may result in our taking 6 Table of Contents additional reserves for the inventory should it become excess or obsolete. Order cancellations and delays could also lower our asset utilization, resulting in higher levels of unproductive assets and lower margins. In some cases, changes in circumstances for a customer could also negatively impact the collectability of receivables or carrying value of our inventory for that customer. On other occasions, customers have required rapid and sudden increases in production, which have placed an excessive burden on our manufacturing capacity. Rapid changes in product ramps and/or the weakening financial condition or deterioration of any single customer's financial condition could prevent us from collecting receivables or realizing the value of inventory on hand. Any of these factors or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competitors with component manufacturing capabilities may have greater opportunities than us to win additional business from some of our customers. This capability may have the potential to provide that competitor with additional capabilities or cost saving opportunities. We procure all of our components from third party suppliers. In addition to traditional EMS services, some of our competitors also manufacture some of the components used in the products they assemble. This can include metal or plastic enclosures, connectors, semiconductors, cabling and other components used in the manufacturing of electronics. Those capabilities may provide additional incentives for some customers to do business with those EMS or ODM companies as there may be additional opportunity to reduce the total costs of their products by using more components and services from one company. If this were to occur, we may experience reduced revenue from certain customers and lower utilization rates. Our customers and competitors are subject to mergers and acquisitions, and similar transactions which can adversely affect our business relationships or the volume of business we conduct with our customers. Future mergers and acquisitions could result in a decrease in demand from our customers or a loss of business to our competitors as customers rationalize their business and consolidate their suppliers. In a weaker economic environment, there may be a higher risk of increased consolidation among our customers or competitors. Mergers among our customers or their customers could increase concentration and/or reduce total demand as the combined entities may rationalize their businesses and consolidate their suppliers. We may encounter difficulties expanding and/or restructuring our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. As we expand our business, enter into new market segments and products, or transfer our business from one region to another, we may encounter difficulties that result in higher than expected costs associated with our growth and customer dissatisfaction with performance. Potential difficulties related to our growth and/or operational restructuring could include: •lack of trained personnel to manage the operations and customer contracts appropriately; •maintaining customer, supplier and other favorable business relationships during a period of transition; •effective training of staff to manage new customers and products; •unanticipated disruptions in our operations which may impact our ability to deliver to the customer on time, to produce quality products and to ensure overall customer satisfaction; •losing programs and customers that reduce their business risk by re-sourcing or dual/multi sourcing their business with us due to unforeseen disruptions in our operations; and •market share shifts associated with customer consolidation or supplier consolidation. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of growth in new markets or the benefits we expected to realize from our restructuring actions and could adversely affect our business and operating results. 7 Table of Contents We face financial risks due to foreign currency fluctuations. The principal currency in which we conduct our operations is the U.S. dollar. However, some of our subsidiaries transact business in other currencies, such as the Canadian dollar, Thai baht, Malaysian ringgit, Mexican peso, Czech koruna, Singapore dollar, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian real, Philippine peso, Romanian lei, Indian rupee and the Euro. The current economic credit crisis has resulted in significant fluctuations of currency rates which has and will continue to affect profitability on a quarter to quarter basis. We often enter into hedging transactions to minimize our exposure to foreign currency risks. We may also enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge our balance sheet exposures. Our current hedging activity is designed to reduce the variability of our foreign currency costs and consists of contracts to purchase or sell foreign currencies at future dates. These contracts generally extend for periods ranging from one to 15 months. Our hedging transactions may not successfully minimize foreign currency risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure of our customers to pay the amounts owed to us in a timely manner may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We generally provide payment terms ranging from 30 to 60 days. As a result, we generate significant accounts receivable from sales to our customers, historically representing 22% to 39% of current assets. Accounts receivable from sales to customers at December 31, 2008 were $1,074.0 million (December 31, 2007 — $941.2 million; and December 31, 2006 — $973.2 million). At December 31, 2008, two customers each represented more than 10% of total accounts receivable (December 31, 2007 — no customer represented more than 10% of total accounts receivable; and December 31, 2006 — no customer represented more than 10% of total accounts receivable). If any of our customers has insufficient liquidity, we could encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by customers, and may extend our payment terms or restructure the debt, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our customers will increase the risk of collecting receivables. The current global economic crisis could also impact our customers' ability to pay receivables or put customers into bankruptcy or reorganization which could also impact our ability to collect our receivables. We regularly review our accounts receivable valuations and make adjustments when necessary. Our allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2008 was $13.7 million (December 31, 2007 — $21.5 million; and December 31, 2006 — $21.4 million), which represented 1% of the gross accounts receivable balance (December 31, 2007 — 2%; and December 31, 2006 — 2%). In addition, payment terms could change which may adversely affect our financial results. We face increased financial risk due to the potential non-performance of a counterparty, including but not limited to financial institutions, customers and suppliers, during the current uncertain economic environment. The potential occurrence of default by a counterparty on its contractual obligations may result in a financial loss to us. To mitigate the risk of financial loss from defaults, we deal with counterparties we believe are creditworthy. We also expect the current global economic conditions and credit crisis to impact the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers. The current economy could impact certain customers' ability to pay, or it could render them insolvent, which would impact the collectibility of their accounts. Similarly, an interruption in supply from a raw materials supplier, especially for single sourced components, could have a significant impact on our operations and on our customers if we are unable to deliver finished product in a timely manner. We continue to closely monitor our customers' ability to pay their receivables and to monitor our suppliers in an effort to ensure consistency of supply. We may be required to make larger contributions to our defined benefit plans in the future, which may have an adverse impact on our liquidity and our results of operations. We maintain multiple defined benefit plans as well as supplemental pension plans. Some employees in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and the Philippines participate in our defined benefit pension plans. We also have defined contribution plans for our other employees, primarily in Canada and the U.S. 8 Table of Contents Our pension funding policy is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum local statutory funding requirements that are based on actuarial calculations. Our obligations are based on certain assumptions relating to expected plan performance, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets and discount rates. If future trends differ from these assumptions, the amounts we are obligated to contribute to the pension plans may increase. If the financial markets result in returns lower than our assumptions, we may be required to make larger contributions in the future and our pension expense may also increase. Our customers may be adversely affected by rapid technological changes which have an adverse impact on our business. Many of our customers compete in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. These conditions frequently result in short product lifecycles. Our success will depend largely on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. If technologies or standards supported by our customers' products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance or are cancelled, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, an accelerating decline in end-market demand for customer-specific proprietary systems in favor of open systems with standardized technologies could have a material adverse impact on our business. Additionally, the ramping of new program wins from new or existing customers can take from several months to more than a year before production starts. During this start-up period, these programs are subject to significant change or outright cancellation, in contrast to the initial expectations at the time of winning the new business, due to changes in end-market demand or changes in product viability in the marketplace. We may encounter difficulties completing or integrating our acquisitions which could adversely affect our results of operations. Some of our growth may occur through acquisitions. These transactions may involve acquisitions of entire companies and/or acquisitions of selected assets from OEMs. Potential difficulties related to our acquisitions include: •integrating acquired operations, systems and businesses; •maintaining customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and restructuring or terminating unfavorable relationships; •addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; •making acquisitions in new end markets or in technologies where our knowledge or experience is limited; •losing customers who want to transfer their business because of the change in ownership; •losing key employees of acquired operations; and •not achieving anticipated business volumes. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including operational synergies and economies of scale. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely affect our business and operating results. Previous acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets at the time of acquisition. Our failure to support the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets in periods subsequent to the acquisitions could require write-downs that adversely affect our operating results. All goodwill from previous acquisitions has been written off. We have had significant restructuring charges and losses for several years and may experience restructuring charges and losses in future periods. We have a history of recording losses resulting primarily from restructuring charges and the write-down of goodwill and long-lived assets. These amounts have varied from period to period. In 2004, we also recorded a write-down of accounts receivable for one specific customer which subsequently went bankrupt. We have undertaken numerous initiatives to restructure and reduce our capacity and cost structures in response to 9 Table of Contents changes in the EMS industry and end-market demand, with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. We will continue to evaluate our operations and may propose additional restructuring actions in the future. Any failure to successfully execute these initiatives, including any delay in effecting these initiatives, can have a material adverse impact on our results. Furthermore, we may not be profitable in future periods. Restrictions on our ability to restructure quickly enough can delay the timing and affect the benefits we expect from our restructuring efforts. We have operations in multiple regions around the world. As a result, we are subject to different regulatory requirements and labor laws governing how quickly we are able to reduce manufacturing capacity and terminate related employees. These requirements are particularly stringent in Europe. Restrictions on our ability to close under-utilized facilities have resulted in higher expenses associated with carrying excess capacity and infrastructure while conducting restructuring activities. While it has typically been easier to restructure our operations in certain lower-cost regions, the current global economic conditions may change how governments in all regions regulate restructuring as the weaker demand environment impacts local economies. The speed of our restructuring can also be impeded by delays from our customers related to the timing of their product transfers, which can prevent us from transferring products to our other facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner. Since the restructuring of our plants requires some of our customers to move their production from one of our facilities to another, customers have, and may in the future, use this opportunity to shift their production to competitors' facilities. Any failure to successfully manage our international operations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have facilities in numerous countries, including Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, India, Ireland, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Philippines, Romania, Singapore, Spain and Thailand. During 2008, approximately two-thirds of our revenue was produced from locations outside of North America. We also purchase material from international suppliers for much of our business, including our North American business. We believe that our future growth depends largely on our ability to increase our business and penetration with global OEMs and selective markets, in both higher-cost and lower-cost regions. Our international expansion has had and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. International operations are subject to inherent risks which may adversely affect us, including: •labor unrest and differences in regulations and statutes governing employee relations; •changes in regulatory requirements; •inflation and rising costs; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; •ability to build infrastructure or new facilities on schedule to support operations; •changes in local tax rates and other potentially adverse tax consequences, including the cost of repatriation of earnings; •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including changing import and export regulations, which could erode our profit margins or restrict exports; •adverse changes in trade policies between countries in which we maintain operations; •political instability; •potential restrictions on the transfer of funds; •inflexible employee contracts that restrict our flexibility in responding to business downturns; and •foreign exchange risks. 10 Table of Contents Each of the regions we operate in has a history of promoting foreign investment but could experience economic and political turmoil and fluctuations in the value of its currencies that could adversely affect us. Our results can be affected by limited availability of components. A significant portion of our costs is for the purchase of electronic components. All of the products we manufacture or assemble require one or more components that we order from component suppliers. In many cases, there may be only one supplier of a particular component. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production and thus delay the revenue of all products that use that component or can cause price increases in the products and services we provide. In the past, we have secured sufficient allocations of constrained components so that revenue was not materially impacted. In addition, at various times there have been industry-wide shortages of electronic components. Such shortages, or future fluctuations in the cost of components, may have a material adverse effect on our business or cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. Changes in forecasted volumes by our customers, which require additional components that may not be readily available, could also impact our results. The financial condition of suppliers could affect their ability to supply us with components which could negatively impact our revenue. Additionally, quality or reliability issues at any of our component or materials providers, or financial difficulties that affect their production, could halt or delay production of a customer's product which could adversely impact our results. The efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected by any delay in delivery from our transportation suppliers, including delays caused by work stoppages and natural disasters. We rely on a variety of common carriers for the transportation of materials and products and for their ability to route these materials and products through various international ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of any important supplier's facility or operations, or at any major port or airport, could result in manufacturing and shipping delays or expediting charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increased political activism and worsening local economic conditions could impact receipt of materials and product shipments. Natural disasters such as tsunamis and earthquakes, and the severe and dramatic change to historical weather patterns in the regions where our facilities or our suppliers' facilities are located, could have an adverse impact on our ability to deliver products to our customers. Such events could disrupt supply to us, and from us to our customers, and adversely affect our operations. If our products or services are subject to warranty claims, our business reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant costs. In certain of our sales contracts, we provide warranties against defects or deficiencies in our products, services or designs. A successful claim for damages arising as a result of such defects or deficiencies, for which we are not insured or where the damages exceed our insurance coverage, or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied or limited and for which indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As we pursue new end-markets, warranty requirements will vary and we may be less effective in pricing our products to appropriately capture the warranty costs. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct business operations in a number of countries, including countries where tax incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investment or income tax rates are low. We develop our tax position based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions now in effect in the jurisdictions in which we have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations, possibly with retroactive effect. We are subject to audits of historical information by local tax authorities which could result in additional tax expense in future periods relating to prior results. Any such increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on our future earnings and future cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Certain of our subsidiaries provide financing, products and services to, and may from time to time undertake certain significant transactions with other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. In general, related party transactions and, in particular, related party financing transactions, are subjected to close review by tax authorities. Moreover, several jurisdictions in which we operate have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm's length pricing principles, and that contemporaneous documentation must exist to support such pricing. Taxation authorities could challenge the validity of our related party financing and related party transfer pricing policies. Such a challenge generally involves a subjective area of taxation and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If any of these taxation authorities is successful in challenging our financing or transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subjected to interest and penalty charges. In connection with tax audits in the United States, tax authorities had asserted that our United States subsidiaries owed significant amounts of tax, interest and penalties arising from related party transactions. These asserted deficiencies were subsequently resolved in our favor. In connection with ongoing tax audits in Canada, tax authorities have taken the position that income reported by one of our Canadian subsidiaries in 2001 and 2002 should have been materially higher as a result of certain related party transactions. The successful pursuit of that assertion could result in that subsidiary owing significant amounts of tax, interest and possibly penalties. We believe that we have substantial defenses to the asserted position and have adequately accrued for any probable potential adverse tax impact. However, there can be no assurance as to the final resolution of this claim and any resulting proceedings, and if this claim and any ensuing proceedings are determined adversely against us, the amounts we may be required to pay could be material. Changes in accounting standards enacted by the standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our reported revenue, profitability and financial condition. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and are reconciled to U.S. GAAP. These accounting standards are revised periodically and/or expanded upon by the standard-setting bodies. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations issued from time to time by these authoritative bodies, which include the Canadian Accounting Standards Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Most recently, the Canadian Accounting Standards Board has decided to adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards effective 2011. The adoption of these changes could adversely affect our reported revenue, profitability or financial condition. Compliance with these changes could also increase our financial and accounting costs. The efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected by any disruptions from our third-party IT providers. We have outsourced certain IT systems support which includes database management, as well as application development support for our production control and inventory management systems. If these third-party providers are unable to fulfill their obligations on a timely and reliable basis, we may experience disruptions to our operations. Any inefficiencies or production down times resulting from these disruptions could have a negative impact on our ability to meet customers' orders, resulting in a delay or decrease to our revenue and our operating margins. We may be unable to keep pace with manufacturing technology changes. We continue to evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new manufacturing processes. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continually develop and market electronics manufacturing services that meet our customers' evolving needs. This could entail investing in new processes or equipment to support new technologies used in our customers' current or future products, and to support their supply chain processes. Additionally, as we enter new end-markets where our experience is limited, we may be less effective in adapting to technological change. Our manufacturing and supply chain processes, test development efforts and design capabilities may not be successful. 12 Table of Contents In addition, various industry-specific standards, qualifications and certifications are required to produce certain types of products for our customers. Failure to maintain those certifications could adversely affect our ability to maintain existing levels of business or win new levels of business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property or the intellectual property of others. We believe that certain of our proprietary intellectual property rights and information provide us with a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we have taken, and intend to continue to take, appropriate steps to protect this proprietary information. These steps include signing non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and other parties, and implementing rigid security measures. Our protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our property or information. There is also a risk that infringement claims may be brought against us, our customers or our suppliers in the future. If someone does successfully assert an infringement claim, we may be required to spend significant time and money to develop a manufacturing process that does not infringe upon the rights of such other person or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the owner. We may not be successful in such development or any such licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could adversely affect us even if we are successful in such litigation. As we pursue new end markets, we may be less effective in anticipating the intellectual property risk related to the new manufacturing and design services. We may not be able to increase revenue if the trend of outsourcing by OEMs slows. Future growth in our revenue includes a dependence on new outsourcing opportunities in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from OEMs. Our future growth will be limited to the extent that these opportunities are not available as a result of OEMs deciding to perform these functions internally or delaying their decision to outsource or our inability to win new contracts. The current economic slowdown may also impact the trend of outsourcing as some customers may reverse their outsourcing and shift production back to their own facilities to improve their factory utilization. Political pressures or negative sentiment by our customers' customers or local governments may impede the movement of production from one geography to another. These and other factors could adversely affect the rate of outsourcing generally or, adversely, affect the rate of outsourcing to EMS providers, such as Celestica, who have shifted substantial capacity to these lower-cost geographies. Implementation of new information systems could adversely impact our results. We currently use multiple Enterprise Resource Planning systems in support of our manufacturing sites and we may reduce the number and variety of these systems in the future. Our inability to effectively consolidate our information systems could have a material adverse impact on our results. If we are unable to recruit or retain highly skilled personnel, our business could be adversely affected. The recruitment of personnel in the EMS industry is highly competitive. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled executive, technical and management personnel. We generally do not have employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. To date, we have been successful in recruiting and retaining executive, managerial and technical personnel; however, the loss of services of certain of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our investment in Lean and Six Sigma initiatives may not produce the anticipated cost benefits or achieve the working capital benefits we expect. We are continually investing in training, business process and information technology tools to eliminate waste, increase quality and reduce defects in the manufacturing process. This investment is critical in our industry, as our customers require us to continually produce cost savings through the elimination of waste and improved efficiencies. Failure to deliver these cost savings could affect our relationships with our customers in a manner which would adversely affect our volumes and operating results. The deployment of Lean and Six Sigma 13 Table of Contents initiatives is part of the roadmap we are using to improve our own operating margins. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could have a negative impact on our margin improvement. The complexity of moving our manufacturing base to lower-cost regions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the highly competitive nature of the electronics industry, our customers have required lower-cost solutions from their EMS providers. Over time, this has resulted in the movement of our production from higher-cost regions such as North America and Western Europe to lower-cost regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. This move has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on current and future results by increasing the risks associated with, among other things, transferring production to new regions where skills or experience may be more limited than in higher-cost regions, incurring higher operating expenses during the transition, incurring additional restructuring costs associated with the decrease in production levels in higher-cost geographies and the risks of operating in new foreign jurisdictions. In certain situations, product transfers have resulted in, and may in the future result in our inability to retain our existing business or grow future revenue due to potential execution problems resulting from significant headcount reductions, plant closures and product transfers associated with restructuring activities. Our compliance with environmental laws and obligations could be costly. We are subject to various federal, state/provincial, local and multi-national environmental laws and regulations. Our environmental approach and practices have been designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations in a manner consistent with local practice. Future developments and increasingly stringent regulations could require us to incur additional expenditures relating to environmental matters at our facilities. Achieving and maintaining compliance with present, changing and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities or to continue production. This compliance could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. As well, we are increasingly expected to incur and satisfy contractual obligations with our customers with respect to environmental matters and such obligations may extend beyond our regulatory obligations. We generally obtained environmental assessment reports, or reviewed recent assessment reports initiated by others, for most of the manufacturing facilities that we own or lease at the time we acquired or leased such facilities. Such assessments may not reveal all environmental liabilities and current assessments were not available for all facilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware and ongoing remediation, mitigation and risk assessment measures may not be adequate for purposes of future laws. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, environmental laws impose liability for the costs of removal, remediation or risk assessment of hazardous or toxic substances on an owner, occupier or operator of real estate, even if such person or company was unaware of or not responsible for the presence of such substances. For the most part, our current operations are unlikely to cause significant environmental impacts to soil or groundwater. Contamination could have occurred as a result of past operations (our own or prior occupants of a site) and the condition of our properties could be affected by environmental conditions or activities in the vicinity of the properties. From time to time, we investigate, remediate or monitor soil and groundwater contamination at certain of our operating sites and may incur significant costs to do so. In instances where soil or groundwater contamination existed prior to our ownership or occupation of a site, landlords or former owners may have retained some contractual responsibility or regulatory liability for the contamination and its remediation. However, where such residual liability of landlords or former owners does not exist or where such landlords or former owners fail to fulfill their obligations, we may be required to remediate such contamination. More stringent environmental legislation continues to be imposed, including laws which place increased responsibility and requirements on the "producers" of electronic equipment (i.e., the OEMs) and, in turn, their EMS providers and suppliers. A significant investment of time and resources must be made to ensure compliance with ever-changing environmental legislation and any non-compliance could impact production. These laws include the European Union's Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), which restricts the use of lead and certain other specified substances in electronic products in the European Union and China's Administration on the Control of Pollution caused by Electronic Information Products (often referred to as 14 Table of Contents China's RoHS legislation). Where appropriate, we have transitioned our manufacturing processes and interfaced with suppliers and customers to conform to RoHS requirements. Noncompliance with the RoHS requirements could potentially result in substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers. The electronics industry is also subject to the European Union's requirements with respect to the collection, recycling and management of waste for electronic products and components. Under the European Union's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations. Failure by our customers to meet the RoHS or WEEE requirements or obligations could have a negative impact on their businesses and revenue which would adversely impact our financial results. Similar restrictions are being proposed or enacted in other jurisdictions. Finally, the European Union regulation concerning the Registration Evaluation Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) requires manufacturers or importers of substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of one tonne per year or more to register with a central European Chemicals Agency. We have assessed our obligations under REACH and are interfacing with suppliers and customers in order to conform. Noncompliance with the REACH requirements could potentially result in substantial fines and penalties as well as an inability to manufacture or supply substances, preparations or articles legally. We continue to monitor other emerging environmental legislation which may impact the industry going forward. We cannot currently assess the impact of such legislation on our operations. Our customers are becoming increasingly concerned about environmental issues, such as waste management (including recycling), climate change (including the reduction of carbon footprints), and product stewardship, and expect their suppliers to be environmental leaders. Although we strive to meet such customer expectations, such demands may become more onerous and significant investments of time and resources may be required in order to attract and maintain customers. We may be unable to renew our revolving credit facility during the current uncertain economic times. Our revolving credit facility for $300.0 million will expire in April 2009. With the current global economic conditions and credit crisis and the weakening of capital markets, we may not be able to renew our facility, or the financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Given our strong cash position at December 31, 2008, we are assessing whether we will renew all or a portion of this facility. We cannot assure that we and our lenders will agree on mutually acceptable terms if we seek a renewal. Whether or not we renew the credit facility, we believe we have sufficient resources to satisfy our financial obligations. There were no direct borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2008. Our credit agreement and certain indentures contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct our business. Our outstanding credit agreement, the indenture related to our 77/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and the indenture related to our 75/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 (2013 Notes) contain financial and operating covenants that limit our management's discretion with respect to certain business matters. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt, create liens or other encumbrances, change the nature of our business, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, make restricted payments such as dividends, repurchase our stock, and merge or consolidate with other entities. At February 23, 2009, we were in compliance with these covenants. At December 31, 2008, we had full access to the $300 million of credit available under our credit facility based on the required financial ratios. We are exposed to interest rate fluctuations. In June 2004, we issued our 2011 Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million bearing a fixed interest rate of 7.875%. We also entered into agreements which hedge the fair value of our 2011 Notes by swapping the fixed rate of interest for a variable rate based on LIBOR plus a margin, thereby subjecting us to interest rate risk due to fluctuations in the LIBOR rate. The average interest rate on our 2011 Notes for 2008 was 6.5% (2007 — 8.3%; and 2006 — 8.2%) after reflecting the interest rate swap. A one percentage point increase in the LIBOR rate would increase our interest expense by approximately $5 million annually. We 15 Table of Contents terminated these interest rate swaps in February 2009. See note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 18. The interest of our controlling shareholder may conflict with the interest of the remaining holders of our subordinate voting shares. Onex owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding multiple voting shares and 1% of the outstanding subordinate voting shares. The number of shares owned by Onex, together with those shares Onex has the right to vote, represents 79% of the voting interest in Celestica and less than 1% of the voting interest in our outstanding subordinate voting shares. Accordingly, Onex exercises a controlling influence over our business and affairs and has the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders where our shares vote together as a single class. Onex has the power to elect our directors and its approval is required for significant corporate transactions such as certain amendments to our articles of incorporation, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and plans of arrangement. Onex's voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of our company that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. Under our revolving credit facility, it is an event of default entitling our lenders to demand repayment if Onex ceases to control Celestica unless the shares of Celestica become widely held ("widely held" meaning that no one person owns more than 20% of the votes). Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Onex and one of our directors, owns multiple voting shares of Onex, carrying the right to elect a majority of the Onex board of directors. Mr. Schwartz, therefore, effectively controls our affairs. The interests of Onex and Mr. Schwartz may differ from the interests of the remaining holders of subordinate voting shares. For additional information about our principal shareholders, see Item 7(A), "Major Shareholders." Onex has, from time to time, issued debentures exchangeable and redeemable under certain circumstances for our subordinate voting shares, entered into forward equity agreements with respect to subordinate voting shares, sold shares (after exchanging multiple voting shares for subordinate voting shares), or redeemed these debentures through the delivery of subordinate voting shares and could do so in the future. These sales could impact our share price, have consequences on our outstanding debt, and change our ownership structure. We face securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management's attention and resources and negative publicity. Celestica has been named as a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit in the United States which asserts claims for violations of federal securities laws on behalf of persons who acquired our securities between January 27, 2005 and January 30, 2007. Celestica has been named as a defendant in a similar purported class action brought in Canada under Canadian law. Our former Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers were also named as defendants in these lawsuits. In a consolidated amended U.S. complaint, the plaintiffs have added one of our directors and Onex Corporation as defendants. These lawsuits seek unspecified damages. All defendants have filed motions with the U.S. court to dismiss the amended Complaint. Those motions are pending. Although we believe the allegations in these claims are without merit and we intend to defend these claims vigorously, these lawsuits could result in substantial costs to us, divert management's attention and resources from our operations and negatively affect our public image and reputation. Potential unenforceability of civil liabilities and judgments. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. A significant number of our directors, controlling persons and officers are residents of Canada. Also, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service within the United States upon those directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States or to realize in the United States upon a judgment of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Shares eligible for public sale could adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our subordinate voting shares in the public market, or the issuance of subordinate voting shares upon the exercise of stock options or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. 16 Table of Contents At February 23, 2009, we had 199,580,858 subordinate voting shares and 29,637,316 multiple voting shares outstanding. All of the subordinate voting shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates (as defined in the U.S. Securities Act). Shares held by our affiliates include all of the multiple voting shares and 1,996,231 subordinate voting shares held by Onex Corporation (Onex). An affiliate may not sell shares in the United States unless the sale is registered under the U.S. Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. Rule 144 adopted under the U.S. Securities Act permits our affiliates to sell our shares in the United States subject to volume limitations and requirements relating to manner of sale, notice of sale and availability of current public information with respect to us. In addition, as of February 23, 2009 there were approximately 27,000,000 subordinate voting shares reserved for issuance under our employee share purchase and option plans and for director compensation, including outstanding options to purchase approximately 11,100,000 subordinate voting shares. Moreover, we may, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, issue an unlimited number of additional subordinate voting shares without further shareholder approval (subject to any required stock exchange approvals). As a result, a substantial number of our subordinate voting shares will be eligible for sale in the public market at various times in the future. The issuances and/or sale of such shares would dilute the holdings of our shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of the subordinate voting shares. Acts of terrorism and other political and economic developments could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures, conflicts in the Middle East and Asia, security issues at the U.S./Mexico border related to illegal immigration or criminal activities associated with illegal drugs activities, strained international relations arising from these conflicts and the related decline in consumer confidence may hinder our ability to do business. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and could affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. These events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and customer confidence and spending in particular, which in turn could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The impact of these events on the volatility of the U.S. and world financial markets could increase the volatility of the market price of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers and suppliers. 