D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our results of operations may be impacted by monetary risk. Our portfolio of marketable securities is subject to various market risks. We are exposed to fluctuations in the rate of the United States Dollar and Euro versus the NIS. Most of our income is in NIS, whereas most of our purchases are in United States Dollars and in Euros. In addition, a significant portion of our short term bank borrowings, when needed, are in United States Dollars and/or in Euros. A significant depreciation in the NIS vis-à-vis the United States Dollar and/or Euro could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We strive to minimize market risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations and the cost of imported goods, especially by opening wide documentary credits for suppliers abroad, holding foreign currency reserves and initiating forward transactions and foreign currency options. As a method of investing cash reserves, we hold from time to time a portfolio of marketable securities traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange as well as other stock exchanges and certain bonds traded abroad. This portfolio of marketable securities is subject to various market risks resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency, exchange rates, price fluctuations and other market risks in Israel and abroad. We do not utilize derivative securities for trading purposes, enter into swap arrangements or otherwise hedge our currency in a manner that we believe could expose us to significant market risk. 6 Our financial instruments consist mainly of cash and cash equivalents, current accounts receivable, short-term borrowings, current accounts payable and accruals. In view of their nature, the fair value of the financial instruments, included in working capital, is usually identical or close to their book value. Our business may be materially affected if any of our major clients defaults on its payment to us. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of trade receivables. Despite our large number of clients (over 1,500 in Israel and abroad), a major and significant part of our sales is made to a limited number of customers (mainly the organized market). Our two largest customers, Shufersal Ltd. and Blue Square — Israel Ltd., accounted for 24% of our sales in 2009. We generally do not require and do not receive collateral from those customers, although we do require and receive collateral from most of the remainder of our clients in Israel to ensure security of collecting payments. We maintain an allowance for doubtful debts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information which our management believes ad equately covers all anticipated losses in respect of trade receivables. There can be no assurance that this allowance will be adequate. In the event that any of our major clients defaults on its payment obligations to us, we will not possess sufficient security to collect the entire debt. We depend on a small number of principal clients who have in the past bought our products in large volumes. We cannot assure that these clients or any other client will continue to buy our products in the same volumes, on the same terms or at all. Despite our wide dispersion of clients, we have two major clients, Shufersal Ltd. and Blue Square — Israel Ltd., both of which own, among other things, supermarket chains, who accounted for approximately 19% and 5%, respectively of our revenue during 2009. We do not have long term purchase contracts with our clients, and our sales arrangements with our clients do not have minimum purchase requirements. We cannot assure that our major clients will continue to buy our products at all or in the same volumes or on the same terms as they have in the past. Their failure to do so may significantly reduce our sales. Losing one or more of them may adversely affect our business results. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to attract new customers. We are dependent on our key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel could have a material effect on our business. We depend on a small number of technical staff, managers and directors, including management services provided to us by Zwi Williger and Joseph Williger, through management companies that they control, each of whom holds senior management positions with us. We do not have any key-man life insurance policy on either Zwi Williger or Joseph Williger. The loss of either or both of them could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We are dependent on Arla Foods amba, or "Arla", and we also work with a limited number of other key suppliers. If these suppliers raise prices or terminate their engagement with us, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on Arla, which supplies a high percentage (57% in 2009) of our dairy and dairy substitute products, although we are not dependent on any single supplier in respect of a majority of our products. Terminating the engagement with any supplier, Arla in particular, or a material change in the engagement terms for purchasing products from those suppliers may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. We have a distribution agreement with Arla pursuant to which we serve as Arla’s sole and exclusive agent and distributor in Israel of certain products for a five-year period beginning in March 2005. In July 2007, the agreement was amended and the exclusivity period was extended to ten years from March 2005. See 8220;Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Suppliers”. If this supplier raises its prices, our operating results may be adversely affected. See "Increases or decreases in global prices have in the past, and in the future may continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability. "We believe that there are alternative suppliers for purchasing our products; however, we cannot assure that the products of the alternative suppliers will become immediately available and that the terms of purchase will be similar to the current ones. 7 We may not be able to successfully compete with larger competitors who have greater operations, financial, marketing, labor and other resources than we have. The food distribution business in Israel is highly competitive. We face competition from existing competitors in respect of imported as well as locally manufactured food products. Local producers are not subject to the financial risks of importing food products or to governmental policies regarding taxation of imported food products to which we are subject. We may also face competition from potential newcomers to the food business as well as from existing importers and/or manufacturers not currently involved in the same lines of products as us. In addition, in the event we further expand our activity in the international food markets, we will also face competition from manufacturers and/or distributors from the locations in which we expand our act ivity. Certain of our current and potential competitors are substantially more established, benefit from substantially greater market recognition and have greater financial, marketing, labor and other resources than we have. If any of our competitors materially reduces prices, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. Such reductions, if effected, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or decreases in global product prices have in the past, and in the future may continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In 2007, a number of our suppliers increased their product prices to us due to increases in milk, wheat, corn and rice prices. This reduced our profitability during 2007. The cost of food commodities and other food products is subject to cyclical and other market factors and may fluctuate significantly. As a result, our cost in securing these products is subject to substantial increases and decreases over which we have no control. In addition, fuel costs, which represent the most significant factor affecting utility costs at our production facilities and our transportation costs are subject to wide fluctuations. We cannot assure that we will be able to pass on to customers the i ncreased costs associated with the procurement of these products. Moreover, there has in the past been, and there may in the future be, a time lag between the incurrence of such increased costs and the transfer of such increases to customers. To the extent that increases in the prices of our products cannot be passed on to customers or there is a delay in passing on the increased costs to customers, we are likely to experience an increase in our costs which may materially reduce our margin of profitability. In 2008, the global purchase price of a number of our key products decreased sharply due to the global recession. This reduced our profitability during 2008 because of the sharp decrease in the selling prices of our products that we had previously purchased or committed to purchase at higher prices. Because we purchase many of our products from outside Israel, there is a lag of time from when we purchase inventory from our suppliers (or commit to purchase inventory from our suppliers) until the time we sell this inventory to our customers in Israel. To the extent that the purchase price of products that we purchase decreases from the time that we purchase our inventory (or commit to purchase our inventory) until t he time we sell the inventory to our customers, our margin of profitability may be materially reduced if we are not able to sell our products at prices exceeding the market price. Increases or decreases in global product prices in the future may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not accurately predict the rate of consumption of our products. We hold inventory of basic foodstuffs (such as preserved food, oils and rice) and other food products, and we accumulate inventories of these products based on our prediction of the consumption of these products. If actual consumption does not meet the prediction, and the shelf life of such products expire or we cannot otherwise sell such products, this may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, to the extent we do not have adequate inventory of these critical products (due, for example, to an emergency situation), we will not be able to meet the needs of our customers and our potential revenues may be adversely affected. 8 We may not successfully integrate our recent acquisitions. In light of our acquisition of Shamir Salads (2006) Ltd., our success will depend in part on our ability to manage the combined operations of this company, to integrate the operations and personnel of this company together with our other subsidiaries into a single organizational structure, and to replace those subsidiary managers who have departed or may in the future leave our employ. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate the operations of our subsidiaries and our acquired businesses into a single organizational structure. Integration of this operation could also place additional pressures on our management as well as on our key personnel. The failure to successfully manage this integration could have an adverse material effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability. We may be subject to product liability claims for misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled food products. We sell food products for human consumption, which involve risks such as product contamination or spoilage, misbranding, product tampering, and other adulteration of food products. Consumption of a contaminated, spoiled, misbranded, tampered or adulterated product may result in personal illness or injury. We could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or that exceed our insurance coverage. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming and may require management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business. A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes adulterated could result in: product withdrawals, product r ecalls, destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of confidence in our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be adversely affected by any interruption to our storage facilities. We store most of our products in two main locations – a logistics center warehouse situated in Yavne, Israel, and a factory and logistics center situated in Barkan, Israel, used for products being distributed to customers. Any interruption to these storage facilities, whether by power failure, flooding or other event, would have a material impact on our ability to trade in the ordinary course. 9 Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our losses in the event our products are subject to product liability claims or our products are subject to recall. In such event, it would have a material adverse effect on us. Our products may become the subject of product liability claims, and there can be no assurance that our property insurance coverage limits will be adequate or that all such claims will be covered by insurance. A product recall or a product liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have substantial coverage, could result in significant expenses, including legal defense costs, thereby increasing our expenses, lowering our earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. A successful product liability claim or other judgment against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation. Our operating results may be subject to variations from quarter to quarter. Our operating results may be subject to variations from quarter to quarter depending on, among other things, the timing of sales campaigns and special events initiated by both us and our customers, the major Jewish holidays (such as the Jewish New Year and Passover), our ability to manage future inventory levels in line with business opportunities and anticipated customers’ demand, competitive developments in the market, changes in the rates of inflation in Israel and fluctuations in NIS/Dollar exchange rates. There can be no assurance that our sales or net income (if any) in any particular quarter will not be lower than the preceding and/or comparable quarter or that our sales or net income (if any) in a particular quarter will be indicative of our results of operations for the entire year. The trading prices of our ordinary sh ares may fluctuate significantly in response to variations in our operating results. Our branded products may not be able to compete successfully with nationally branded products. For sales of our branded products to retailers, the principal competitive factors are price, product quality and quality of service. For sales of branded products to consumers, the principal competitive factors are price and product quality. In many cases, competitors with nationally branded products may have a competitive advantage over our products primarily due to name recognition. Competition to obtain shelf space for our branded products with retailers is primarily based on the expected or historical performance of our product sales relative to our competitors. The principal competitive factors for sales of our branded products to consumers are brand recognition and loyalty, product quality and price. Most of our branded competitors have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing expenditures, and/or increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be compromised. We market certain products under the trademarks “Willi-Food”, "Shamir Salads", “Pizza Top”, “Gold Food”, "Donna Rozza", "Manchow", "Bloose", "Krisponim", "Bubles" and “Gold Frost”. Although we have registered trademarks for these brands, we cannot assure that the degree of protection these and other trademarks offer will be sufficient to protect our rights in these marks. If our ordinary shares are delisted from Nasdaq, the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares and our ability to issue additional securities may be significantly reduced. We may in the future fail to comply with the Nasdaq Capital Market regulations and listing requirements as to minimum net income, minimum number of shareholders and public float and other requirements, and as a result Nasdaq may initiate procedures to delist our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Capital Market. 10 Since the beginning of 2009, our stock price has been trading in a range from $0.86 to $7.10 per share. Under Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(2), (“Rule”) any company whose share has a closing bid price less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days may be subject to a delisting proceeding instigated by Nasdaq. We now satisfy this requirement as our stock price is well above $1.00 per share. If we fail to meet the continued listing criteria defined under the Rule, our ordinary shares may be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. Delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our ordinary shares. If a delisting of our ordinary shares were to occur, our shares would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets”. The OTC Bulletin Board and “pink sheets” are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and this could diminish investors’ interest in our ordinary shares as well as significantly impact our share price and the liquidity of our ordinary shares. Any such delisting may also severely complicate trading of our shares by our shareholders, or prevent them from re-selling their shares at/or above the price they paid. Furthermore, our relatively low trading volumes may make it difficult for shareholders to trade shares or initiate any other transactions. Delisting may also make it more difficult for us to issue additional securities or secure additional financing. In July 2003 and in November 2004, we received letters from the Nasdaq Stock Market informing us that we had failed to meet a continued listing requirement, that we have 500,000 publicly held shares, and that our ordinary shares were therefore subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, unless a proper plan for complying with the requirement was presented. Following the receipt of the November 2004 letter, Willi Food Investments Ltd. and Mr. Joseph Williger sold 75,000 of our shares to the public and at the same time we distributed a one to one stock dividend to our shareholders. As a result of these actions, we then complied with the abovementioned listing requirements and the threat of delisting was removed. One shareholder owns a large percentage of our shares. As of the date of this Annual Report, Willi-Food Investments Ltd., which we refer to as Willi-Food, owned approximately 52.84% of our ordinary shares. Mr. Joseph Williger, who serves as Chief Executive Officer and director of our company and serves as Chairman of the Board of Willi-Food, held, as of June 21, 2010, approximately 21.48% of the outstanding shares of Willi-Food (approximately 21.72% on a fully-diluted basis). Mr. Zwi Williger, who serves as Chief Operating Officer and Chairman of the Board of our company and serves as a director and Chief Executive Officer of Willi-Food, held, as of June 21, 2010 approximately 34.54% of the outstanding shares of Willi-Food (approximately 34.93% on a fully-diluted basis). Our Articles of Association do not provide for cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of directors and every resolution of the company in the general meeting of shareholders is deemed duly passed if passed by a simple majority of the shareholders present and voting unless another majority is required by the Israeli Companies Law or by our Articles of Association. Our management could lose a major amount of its indirect ownership of our ordinary shares through litigation. In 2008, Mr. Arcadi Gaydamak (“Gaydamak”) borrowed approximately NIS 76 million (US $20 million) from companies owned by Messrs. Zwi Williger and Joseph Williger (the “Williger Brothers”). These loans were secured by Gaydamak’s equity securities of Willi-Food, the parent company to G. Willi Food (“Parent”). The loans included a provision whereby the Williger Brothers had a call option to acquire the Parent equity if Gaydamak defaulted under the loans. InOn September 2008, Gaydamak defaulted under these loans, and accordingly the Williger Brothers increased their ownership of the Parent by exercising their call option to acquire such interests; Zwi Williger by 21.65% and Joseph Williger by 21.65%. 11 Gaydamak filed a lawsuit in Israel in September 2009 against the Williger Brothers and others, claiming, among other things, that the Williger Brothers did not rightfully exercise the call option. The Company is not a party to the lawsuit. The Williger Brothers have informed us that their legal counsel has advised them that the lawsuit is without merit, and that they intend to vigorously contest the dispute. The Williger Brothers indicated that their attorneys advised that, according to all the information and documents presented to them, that the Williger Brothers exercised the call options in a rightful and bona fide manner. We have been further advised that the loan agreements were breached by Gaydamak and, at the time of the breach, Gaydamak also declared that he had no intention of paying his debts to the Williger Brothers. At th e same time, other creditors submitted significant claims against the assets of Gaydamak and placed attachments on his assets, and therefore a real risk arose that the Willi-Food securities would also be attached. Under these circumstances, in addition to the breach of the loan agreement, by not presenting all the required securities and other breaches, there was also a definite anticipatory breach of the loan payment and a real risk to the securities. Under these circumstances, management believes that the Williger Brothers clearly had the full right to exercise the call option and the lawsuit is without merit. There are also currently criminal proceedings pending against Gaydamak in Israel for money laundering. Gaydamak left Israel a year and a half ago and the Company's management believes he resides in Russia. According to the judge in these proceedings, it is probable that he will not return to Israel. He was also convicted of a crime in France and sentenced to six years in prison. Israel has an extradition treaty with France, while Russia does not. Therefore, if he were to return to Israel he could face criminal penalties in Israel and France. The Williger Brothers have indicated to us that their lawyers advised them that if Gaydamak does not return to Israel to testify in the lawsuit, there is a very good chance that the lawsuit will be rejected by the court since Gaydamak failed to testify. Again, according to the Williger Brothers 217; legal counsel, such lawsuit is presumably baseless and has a very low chance of success. However, in the event the lawsuit is ruled against the Williger Brothers, their ownership interest in Willi-Food would be reduced (Zwi Williger from approximately 34.54% to approximately 17.04% and Joseph Williger from approximately 21.48% to approximately 3.98%) and Gaydamak would own a significant indirect interest in our company. We are controlled by and have business relations with Willi-Food and its management. Willi-Food, our controlling shareholder, is a holding company whose main asset is the ordinary shares it owns in our company. Willi-Food currently does not directly conduct any material business. Willi-Food, Mr. Zwi Williger, a 34.54% shareholder of Willi-Food, the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Chief Operating Officer and a director and Chief Executive Officer in Willi-Food, and Mr. Joseph Williger, a 21.48% shareholder of Willi-Food, a director and our Chief Executive Officer and the chairman of the Board of Directors of Willi-Food, have been and continue in certain cases to be party to certain agreements and arrangements relating to our operations. Such transactions include service and employment arrangements between each of Messrs. Joseph and Zwi Williger together with us, and a service agreement we have with Willi-Food. All such transactions include consideration. In addition, certain of our key personnel also serve in management positions in Willi-Food. By serving in dual capacities, these persons may experience conflicts of interest involving the two companies. Israeli law imposes procedures, including, for certain material transactions, a requirement of shareholder approval, as a precondition to entering into interested party transactions. These procedures may apply to transactions between Willi-Food and us. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to avoid the possible detrimental effects of any such conflicts of interest by complying with the procedures mandated by Israeli law. 12 The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly and may be affected by our operating results, changes in our business, changes in the products we market and distribute, and general market and economic conditions which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general have, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These fluctuations have affected stock prices of many companies without regard to their specific operating performance. The price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. Also, the financial markets in the Unites States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of public companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We are a relatively young company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In addition, we must implement financial and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices that enable us to comply, on a stand alone basis, with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, rules. For example, we will need to further develop accounting and financial capabilities, including the establishment of an internal audit function and development of documentation related to internal control policies and procedures. Failure to quickly establish the n ecessary controls and procedures would make it difficult to comply with SEC rules and regulations with respect to internal control and financial reporting. We will need to take further actions to continue to improve our internal controls. If we are unable to implement solutions to any weaknesses in our existing internal controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted. Our auditors will be required to attest to our evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting. Unless we successfully design and implement changes to our internal controls and management systems, or if we fail to maintain the adequacy of these controls as such standards are modified or amended from time to time, we may not be able to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result, our auditors may be unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional capital. 13 All of our assets are pledged to creditors. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to Bank Leumi Le’Israel, Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot Ltd. and Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in order to secure credit lines from each of these banks. If we were to utilize these credit lines, we expect that the proceeds from the sale of any of these assets may be used to prepay the principal amount owed on the credit lines secured by these pledges. As a result of these arrangements, our ability to dispose of pledged assets may require the consent of these banks, and our ability to incur further debt (whether secured or unsecured) is limited. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel We are subject to regulations and other policies of the Israeli government and of other countries into which we import and export. If we are unable to obtain and maintain regulatory qualifications or approvals for our products, our business may be adversely affected. Regulatory, licensing and quotas: The import, export, storage, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and labeling of food products are subject to extensive regulation and licensing by various Israeli government and municipal agencies, principally the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. To the extent that we have imported and exported, or will import and export, food products outside of Israel, we may be subject to quotas and other import and export laws and regulations which may limit our ability to sell certain of our food products into these countries. We are required to maintain our distribution processes in conformity w ith all applicable laws and regulations. In the event that such laws and regulations change, or we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we may be prevented from trading within Israel or another part of the world. Tariffs: The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade and Industry of the State of Israel may increase the levels of tariffs on importing goods. This would have a direct impact on us and our financial performance by increasing our costs which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Kosher Licenses: Under kosher regulations, we are required to ascertain that the foodstuffs which we offer for sale bear kosher certification approved by certain authorities such as the Chief Rabbinate of Israel. There is a risk that the relevant authorities in Israel or other areas of the world responsible for issuing kosher licenses may change the criteria for obtaining such licenses. In such circumstances, we may be prohibited from obtaining kosher licenses for various products that we sell into the various kosher markets. Failure to comply with such applicable laws and regulations in relation to kosher licenses could subject us to civil sanctions, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material ad verse effect on us and our financial performance. Economic conditions in Israel affect our financial performance. A major part of our sales are made in Israel, and consequently our financial performance is dependent to a significant extent on the economy of Israel. In recent quarters, the global economic instability and economic uncertainty have negatively impacted economic conditions in Israel. A recession has started in Israel, and the unemployment rates have increased. This has resulted in our customer base, both in the retail and in the wholesale markets, reducing their purchases from us, both in quantities and by purchasing lower cost food products. A deterioration of the economic situation in Israel may erode the real wages and lower the buying power of our potential customers. This in turn may adversely affect our activities and business results. 14 We may be affected by political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel have a direct influence on us because our operations are located there. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially and adversely affect our operations. Several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the area. In December 2008, Israel was engaged in an armed conf lict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip, in the southern region of Israel. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamic Shiite militia group, which disrupted most daily civilian activity in northern Israel. These events have at times caused considerable damage to the Israeli economy. As a result of the political and military situation, Israel’s economy has at times suffered considerably. Ongoing or revived hostilities related to Israel may have a material adverse effect on our business and on our share price. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to reserve duty. Any disruption in our operations may harm our business. Additionally, boycotts of products, prompted by political, religious or other factors, may affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the recent war on Gaza and the United Nations fact-finding mission on the Gaza conflict at the start of 2009, commonly known as the “Goldstone Report,” have found evidence that both Israeli forces and Palestinian militants committed serious war crimes and breaches of humanitarian law, which may amount to crimes against humanity. The Goldstone Report and the Gaza conflict has resulted in grass root boycott movements all over the world on Israeli products or boycotts on products that are distributed by Jews. If such boycott movements were to become widespread, it could have a significant impact on our revenues. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against us, our officers and directors who are based in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. The majority of our officers and present directors reside outside of the United States and most of our operations and assets, and assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against us, our directors or our officers under Federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that Israel does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and Israel would permit effective enfo rcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions initiated in Israel. 15 Our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international business. We purchase food products from over 250 suppliers located around the world. Therefore, we are subject to certain risks that are inherent in an international business. These include, but are not limited to: ● varying regulatory restrictions on sales of our products to certain markets and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; ● tariffs, customs, duties, quotas and other trade barriers; ● difficulties in managing foreign operations and foreign distribution partners; ● longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; ● fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ● political risks; ● foreign exchange controls which may restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; ● export and import restrictions or prohibitions, and delays from customs brokers or government agencies; ● seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world; and ● potentially adverse tax consequences. Depending on the countries involved, any or all of the foregoing factors could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 