ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS MedEmerg’s business and strategy are subject to many risks discussed below. If any of these risks occurs, its business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company The Company has incurred operating losses. The Company incurred a net loss under Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“CAN GAAP”) attributable to common shareholders of $712,571 (on revenues of $21,668,567), during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to net income of $823,711 (on revenues of $17,716,778) during the year ended December 31, 2006, and a net loss of $856,557 (on revenues of $13,785,449) during the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had an accumulated shareholders’ equity balance of $880,220. There can be no assurance that the Company will operate profitably in the future. The Company’s resources may not be sufficient to manage its expected growth. Growth of the Company’s business may place a strain on its administrative, financial and operational resources. The Company’s ability to manage staff and growth effectively will require it to continue to improve its operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, install new management information and control systems and train, motivate and manage its employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will install such management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner or that the new systems will be adequate to support its future operations. If the Company is unable to manage growth effectively, maintain and service its products or if new employees are unable to achieve performance levels, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company depends on a contract with Schering-Plough Canada Inc. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from a contract with Schering-Plough Canada Inc. (“Schering”). The Company has worked with Schering since 2001, providing community-based intravenous infusion of Remicade™ to patients suffering from a variety of inflammatory diseases. The contract, which was most recently renewed on July 1, 2005, is a three year contract, which expires on June 30, 2008. The Company and Schering have commenced negotiations for a new contract. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company provides a number of services to ensure that community-based infusion clinics are established in desired locations and that patients can conveniently receive their infusions from trained healthcare professionals. The Company currently provides more than 1,500 infusions per month to Remicade™ patients. There is no guarantee that Schering will renew this contract in July 2008. The loss of the contract would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Provincial laws regarding the corporate practice of medicine may adversely affect the Company’s business. Business corporations are legally prohibited in many Canadian provinces from providing or holding themselves out as providers of medical care. While the Company has structured its operations to comply with the corporate practice of medicine and the laws of the provinces in which it operates and will seek to structure its operations in the future to comply with the laws of any province in which its plans to operate, there can be no assurance that, given varying and uncertain interpretations of such laws, the Company would be found to be in compliance with restrictions on the corporate practice of medicine in such province. If it is determined that the Company is in violation of applicable restrictions on the practice of medicine in any province in which it operates there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business if it were unable to restructure its operations to comply with the requirements of such province. Such regulations may limit the jurisdictions in which the Company can operate, thereby inhibiting its future expansion into potential markets in other jurisdictions. The Company could be liable for back payroll taxes and penalties if its independent contractors are reclassified as employees. The Company has engaged approximately 130 contractors on a part-time basis, all of whom provide services to clients of the Company. The Company classifies all of its contractors as “independent contractors” for all purposes, including employment tax and employee benefit purposes, and therefore the Company does not pay or withhold any Federal or provincial employment tax with respect to or on behalf of its contractors. The Company believes that its contractors are not employees under existing interpretations of Federal and provincial laws. However, there can be no assurance that Federal or provincial authorities or the Company’s contractors will not challenge this position, or that other laws or regulations, including tax laws, or interpretations thereof, will not change. If, as a result of any of the foregoing, the Company were required to pay withholding taxes and pay for and administer added employee benefits to these contractors, the Company’s operating costs would increase. Additionally, if the Company is required to pay back-up withholding with respect to amounts previously paid to such contractors, it may also be required to pay penalties or be subject to other liabilities as a result of incorrect classification of such contractors. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and/or to restate financial information from prior periods. 10 The Company is exposed to professional liability. Due to the nature of its business, the Company and the physicians and nurses who provide services on its behalf may be the subject of medical malpractice claims, with the attendant risk of substantial damage awards. The sources of potential liability in this regard include the alleged negligence of those physicians and nurses, which are under contract at hospitals and clinics. The Company currently maintains the following insurance policies related to professional liabilities: (i) Cdn$5,000,000 limit per occurrence, with no annual aggregate limit, with respect to general commercial liability; and (ii) Cdn$5,000,000 limit per occurrence with no annual aggregate limit with respect to errors and omissions caused by a negligent act, error or omission by the Company, or any person for whom it is legally liable, arising out of the conduct of its business. (iii) Cdn$5,000,000 limit per occurrence, with no annual aggregate limit, for medical malpractice caused by a negligent act, error or omission by the Company, or any person for whom it is legally liable. In addition, physicians staffed by the Company maintain their own malpractice insurance. To the extent such physicians may be regarded as agents of the Company in the practice of medicine, there can be no assurance that a patient or client would not sue the Company for any negligence of such physicians. In addition, in the event that the Company becomes liable, there can be no assurance that its current insurance policy will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. The Company’s business is subject to government regulation. The provision of medical services in Canada is for the most part under provincial jurisdiction. Currently provincial governments are responsible for paying physicians for the provision of insured services to residents of their province. Any changes in reimbursement regulations, policies, practices, interpretations or statutes that place material limitations on reimbursement amounts or practices could adversely affect the operations of the Company, absent, or prior to, satisfactory renegotiations of contracts with clients and arrangements with contracted physicians. Under a combination of statutory provisions, both Federal and provincial, physicians are prohibited from billing their patients for fees in excess of those payable for services listed in the provincial Schedule of Benefits. The Canada Health Act allows for cash contributions by the Federal government in respect of insured health services provided under provincial healthcare insurance plans. In order for a province to qualify for a full cash contribution, there is a requirement that the provincial healthcare insurance plan satisfy the criteria set out in the Canada Health Act. In addition, the provincial plan must ensure that no payments are permitted in respect of insured health services that have been subject to extra billing. Continuing budgetary constraints at both the Federal and provincial level and the rapidly escalating costs of healthcare and reimbursement programs have led, and may continue to lead to significant reductions in government and other third party reimbursements for certain medical charges. The Company’s independent contracted physicians as well as the Company are subject to periodic audits by government reimbursement programs to determine the adequacy of coding procedures and reasonableness of charges. The agreements with Calian pursuant to which it purchased 8,750,000 of the Company’s Series I Shares grant to Calian rights that could enable Calian to control or influence actions of the Company in a manner that conflicts with the Company’s interests and the interests of its stockholders. Calian Technologies Ltd. (“Calian”) currently holds 8,750,000 shares of the Company’s Series I Shares which are currently convertible into an equal number of Common Shares. As a result thereof, Calian is currently deemed to be the beneficial owner of 13% of the Company’s Common Shares. Under the agreements with Calian so long as Calian continues to hold 4,375,000 Series I Shares certain specified business actions cannot be taken without its reasonable consent. In addition, so long as Calian continues to hold 6,562,500 Series I Shares it is entitled to appoint one member to the Board of Directors or, in lieu thereof, an observer. While the Board of Directors is entitled to exclude Calian’s board designee or observer from participating in board meetings under specified conditions, with regard to Calian’s status as a competitor, Calian’s ability to designate a board member or appoint an observer, together with its rights to veto certain corporate actions may accord it considerable influence over matters affecting the Company. In addition, as a major stockholder, Calian currently is able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring the approval of the Company’s stockholders, including the election of directors and the sale of the Company. Such a concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Any of these facts could decrease the market price of the Company’s Common Shares. 11 The Company is dependent on its key employees. The Company’s success is largely dependent upon the efforts and abilities of Dr. Ramesh Zacharias, its Chief Executive Officer; William Danis, its Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Donald Ross, its Vice President of Business Development, Dr. James Ducharme its Vice President of Medical Services and Dr. Roman Jovey its Program Medical Director for CPM Health Centres Inc. If the Company lost the services of any of Dr. Zacharias, Mr. Danis, Dr. Ross, Dr. Ducharme or Dr. Jovey, its business could be materially adversely affected. The Company has not procured key-man life insurance for any of its employees. The Company’s officers and directors beneficially own the majority of the outstanding common shares and are able to control the Company. The Company’s officers and directors own or have rights to acquire an aggregate of approximately 49.3% of the voting power of its capital stock. As a result, they are in a position to exercise significant influence over the Company and the election of directors and otherwise essentially control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company is dependent on the proper functioning of its information systems. The Company is dependent on the proper functioning of its information systems in operating its business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments and perform billing and accounts receivable functions. Additionally, the Company relies on its information systems in managing its accounting and financial reporting. Its information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and it has backup remote processing capabilities. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. In the event that critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impact the Company’s ability to identify business billing opportunities quickly, to maintain and clinical records reliably, to bill for services efficiently and to maintain its accounting and financial reporting efficiently. The Company may experience additional losses through the financing of accounts receivables. One of the services provided by the Company’s staffing solutions business is the collection of fees for services performed by its employees and sub-contractors. In the event that the Company does not collect these fees by the time payment is due to the physicians and nurses, it may nevertheless be obligated to pay the physicians and nurses for the duties they have fulfilled. In practice, the Company uses its working capital to finance the accounts receivable and pay the physicians and nurses. Historically, bad debts are less than 0.5% of gross billings since substantially all of the physician services billed to OHIP are for Ontario residents who are automatically covered by OHIP for the medical services performed. However, there can be no assurance that accounts receivables will ultimately be collected from OHIP and the hospitals. Accordingly, there can be no assurance the Company will not experience significant losses due to unpaid accounts receivables which it has financed. The Company may need additional financing to achieve its growth strategy. Additional financing may be required to continue to pursue the Company’s growth strategy. If the Company does not obtain additional financing when required, it may be required to modify, delay or abandon some or all of its expansion plans, which may have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company is subject to litigation, which could result in substantial judgment or settlement costs. Claims have been made against the Company for general damages and for breach of contract and in tort. It is possible that further claims will be made against the Company. The defense of these lawsuits may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm the Company’s business. In addition, an adverse determination or a substantial settlement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or future prospects. 12 The Company is exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. The Company is spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of the Company’s internal control systems, and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by its independent auditors. The Company recently completed its planning, documentation and testing of its internal control systems and procedures in order to comply with the requirements of Section 404 by the end of 2008. This process required the Company to hire outside advisory services and resulted and will continue to result in additional accounting and legal expenses. In addition, the evaluation and attestation processes required by Section 404 are evolving. The Company may encounter problems or delays in the implementation of improvements and the receipt of a positive attestation by its independent auditors. If the Company is not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404, it might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. Moreover, because the new and changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to the Company’s disclosure and governance practices. Competition in the healthcare industry may adversely affect the Company’s revenues and market position. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. The Company competes based on scope, quality and cost of services provided. Many of its existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources available to them. While management believes that it competes on the basis of the quality of its services, the larger resources of its competitors may give them certain cost advantages over it (e.g. in the areas of malpractice insurance, cost, savings from internal billing and collection and a broader scope of services). The Company also competes with various local physician groups which provide hospitals with emergency staffing alternatives. Risk related to investment in a Canadian corporation. MedEmerg is incorporated under the Business Corporations Act, Ontario (“OBCA”) and its directors, controlling persons and officers as well as experts named herein, are residents of Canada, Israel or the United Kingdom. Moreover, substantial portions of the Company’s assets and the assets of such persons are located in Canada, Israel or the UK. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or such persons or to enforce, in United States federal or state courts, judgments against them obtained in such courts and predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal or state securities laws. Risks Related to the Market There is a limited public market for the Company’s securities and there can be no assurance that a public trading market will continue. The Company’s common shares are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Currently, there is no public trading market in Canada for the Company’s securities. There are no assurances that a public trading market for the Company’s securities in the United States will be obtained. In any event, because certain restrictions may be placed upon the sale of such securities unless such securities qualify for an exemption from the “penny stock” rules (such as being listed on NASDAQ) some brokerage firms will not effect transactions in the Company’s common shares and it is unlikely that any bank or financial institution will accept such securities as collateral, which could have a material adverse effect in developing or sustaining a market for such securities. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Revenue denominated in Canadian dollars accounted for 100% of the Company’s revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Accordingly, the relationship of the Canadian dollar to the value of the United States dollar may materially affect the Company’s operating results. In the event that the Canadian dollar was materially devalued against the United States dollar, the Company’s operating results would be materially, adversely affected. 13 The Company may fail to meet the expectations of its investors and analysts, which may cause the market price of its common shares to fluctuate or decline. Analysts frequently issue reports based on the results of a single quarter. The Company’s revenues and earnings have fluctuated significantly in the past, and management expects that they will continue to do so in the future. Relatively poor results in one quarter could significantly and adversely influence such reports, which may in turn lead to depreciation of the market price of the Company’s common shares, which in turn may result in the loss of some or all of its shareholders’ investment. Factors that influence the fluctuating nature of the Company’s quarterly results include, without limitation: • the demand for the Company’s services; • any change in its ability to attract and retain medical professionals, consultants and customers; • the timing and significance of new services and products introduced by it and its competitors; • the level of services provided and prices charged by it and by its competition; • unexpected changes in operating expenses, such as a determination by the Canadian fiscal authorities that it must pay payroll taxes for its Canadian contract service providers and penalties for not having done so in the past; and • general economic factors. These factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, substantially curtail an investor’s ability to predict the Company’s future performance based on its past performance, as do many of the other risks discussed in this Annual Report. In addition, many companies that generate increasing revenues and earnings nevertheless experience devaluation of the market price of their publicly traded equities. There can be no assurance that even positive results of operations will not negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common shares. Substantial resales of the Company’s common shares could depress its share price. The market price of the Company’s common shares could decline, perhaps significantly, as a result of resales of a large number of common shares in the public market or even the perception that such resales could occur. In addition, the Company has a substantial number of options, warrants and other securities convertible into common shares outstanding that may be exercised in the future. These factors could also make it more difficult for the Company to raise funds through future offerings of its equity securities. The Company has not paid, and does not intend to pay, cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company has not paid and has no current intention to pay any cash dividends on its common shares. It intends to retain future earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and expansion of its business. Dividend payments in the future may also be limited by other loan agreements or covenants contained in other securities which the Company may issue. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and depend on its financial condition, results of operations, capital and legal requirements and such other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. The Company’s board of directors may issue preferred stock and common stock, which could adversely affect the value of the Company’s securities. The Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares and ‘blank check” preferred shares with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board. Accordingly, the Company’s board is empowered to issue an unlimited number of common shares for any purpose without seeking shareholder approval or issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of common shares and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of the Company’s common shares. The issuance of the Company’s preferred shares or common shares may be used under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the company. The Company has no present intention to issue any of its preferred shares. However, there can be no assurance that it will not issue preferred shares or common shares in the future. 14 The Company’s common shares are subject to penny stock regulations. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks” are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s common shares are penny stocks within the meaning of these rules. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system provided that current prices and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities are provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customers account In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchasers written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. ITEM 