Item 1A. Risk Factors. We Have A History Of Losses And Losses May Continue In The Future. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $187,099,000. We incurred net losses of $24,911,000, $11,430,000 and $4,033,000 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have incurred negative cash flows and cumulative net losses since inception. See “Risk Factors – Negative Changes In The General Economic Environment Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Operating Results.” Ongoing discussions regarding below market transaction. The Company is currently in active discussions regarding a strategic transaction that would be substantially below the currently prevailing market prices of the Company’s Common Stock If we are unable to complete a strategic transaction, we will require substantial additional funding to implement our business plan and if we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be forced to reduce or curtail operations. If we are unable to complete a strategic transaction, we will require additional financing to fund our operations. We currently have sufficient funds to support our operations until the anticipated signing of a definitive agreement regarding the Proposed Strategic Transaction at which time we believe bridge financing will be available. We would need additional funds to support our working capital needs if we cannot consummate a strategic transaction. Our inability to consummate a strategic transaction or to raise additional working capital on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our audit report for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes an explanatory paragraph indicating substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The Auditor’s Report with respect to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains an explanatory paragraph indicating that certain matters had raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are in active discussions regarding the evaluation of strategic alternatives, which if consummated, are expected to enable us to continue as a going concern. Failing such transaction, we would seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that any such strategic transaction can be consummated or that additional financing can be identified. 6 Our Lender Has Liens On Substantially All Of Our Assets And Could Foreclose In The Event That We Default Under Our Credit Facility. Under the terms of our credit facility, our lender has a first priority lien on substantially all of our assets, including our cash balances. If we default under the credit facility, our lender would be entitled to, among other things, foreclose on our assets (whether inside or outside a bankruptcy proceeding) in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility. The lender has waived our going concern uncertainty and increased our borrowing availability only through mid-June, after which time we would need additional waivers and or accommodations from our lender. Rho, Soros, Maverick, And Prentice Each Own A Large Amount Of Our Stock And Therefore Can Exert Significant Influence Over Our Management And Policies. As of April 12, 2013, Rho Ventures VI, LP (which we refer to as “Rho”) owned approximately 42% of our Common Stock, Quantum Industrial Partners LDC (which we refer to as the “Soros Party”) owned approximately 23% of our Common Stock, the Maverick Funds (which consist of Maverick Fund USA, Ltd., which we refer to as “Maverick USA”, Maverick Fund, L.D.C., which we refer to as “Maverick”, and Maverick Fund II, Ltd., which we refer to as “Maverick Fund”, collectively referred to as the “Maverick Funds”) owned approximately 13% of our Common Stock and Prentice (which consist of Prentice Consumer Products, LP and is referred to as “Prentice”) owned approximately 12% of our Common Stock. We entered into an Amended and Restated Voting Agreement with Rho, the Soros Party, and the Maverick Funds. Prentice and others (the “Voting Agreement”), pursuant to which Rho and the Soros Party each have the right to designate two designees to our Board, and the Maverick Funds and Prentice each have the right to designate one designee to our Board, in each case, subject to minimum ownership thresholds and compliance with applicable rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. The Voting Agreement also provides that one designee of each of Rho, the Soros Party, the Maverick Funds and Prentice have the right to serve on each committee of our Board. If we establish an Executive Committee, a designee of each of Rho, the Soros Party, the Maverick Funds and Prentice will be entitled to serve on such committee. In view of their large percentage of ownership, Rho, the Soros Party, the Maverick Funds and Prentice each have the ability to exert significant influence over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger or a going private transaction. Negative Changes In The General Economic Environment Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Operating Results. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations has been, and may continue to be, negatively affected by general economic conditions that may be unfavorable to us. These conditions may influence and affect our business as our business is dependent on consumer demand for our products. If the general economic environment becomes unfavorable, there will likely be a negative effect on our net sales and earnings for fiscal 2013 and may continue into fiscal 2014. See “Risk Factors – We Will Be Subject To Cyclical Variations In The Apparel And E-Commerce Markets.” If We Are Not Accurate In Forecasting Our Revenues, We May Be Unable To Adjust Our Operating Plans In A Timely Manner. Because our business has not yet reached a mature stage, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenues accurately. We base our current and future expense levels and operating plans on expected revenues, but in the short-term, significant portion of our expenses are fixed. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. This inability could cause our operating results in some future quarter to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline significantly. In addition, any such unexpected revenue shortfall could significantly affect our short-term cash flow and our net worth, which could require us to seek additional financing and/or cause a default under our credit facility. See “Risk Factors – Our Ability To Maintain And Pay Our Indebtedness Under Our Credit Facility Is Dependent Upon Meeting Our Business Plan.” Our Marketing Initiatives May Not Be Successful. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers on cost-effective terms. We have relationships with online services, search engines, and other Websites and e-commerce businesses to provide other links to direct customers to our Websites. Such services are expensive and may not result in the cost effective acquisition of customers. We are relying on the online and offline marketing initiatives as a source of traffic to our Websites and new customers. If these initiatives are not successful, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We Purchase A Substantial Portion Of Our Inventory From Several Suppliers. In both 2012 and 2011, we purchased approximately 49% and 52%, respectively, of our inventory from three suppliers, respectively. Should our relationship with these suppliers deteriorate or terminate, or should these suppliers lose some or all of its access to the products that we purchase from it, our performance could be adversely affected. Under such circumstances, we would be required to seek alternative sources of supply for these products, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such products from alternative sources on the same terms, or at all. A failure to obtain such products on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our net sales and/or gross profit margin percentage. 7 We Do Not Have Long-Term Contracts With Most of Our Vendors And Therefore The Availability Of Merchandise Is At Risk. We do not have formal long-term agreements with most of our vendors controlling the long-term availability of merchandise or the continuation of particular pricing practices. Our contracts with suppliers typically do not restrict such suppliers from selling products to other buyers. There can be no assurance that our current suppliers will continue to sell products to us on current terms or that we will be able to establish new or otherwise extend current supply relationships to ensure product acquisitions in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable commercial terms. In addition, in order to entice new vendors to open up relationships with us, we sometimes are required to either make prepayments or agree to shortened payment terms. Our ability to develop and maintain relationships with reputable suppliers and obtain high quality merchandise is critical to our success. If we are unable to develop and maintain relationships with suppliers that would allow us to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms, our ability to satisfy our customers’ needs, and therefore our long-term growth prospects, would be materially adversely affected. See “Risk Factors – We Purchase A Substantial Portion Of Our Inventory Several Suppliers” and “Risk Factors - Brand Owners Could Establish Procedures To Limit Our Ability To Purchase Products Indirectly.” The Company does not maintain the minimum bid price of $1.00 on the Nasdaq. On February 15, 2013, the Company was notified by the Nasdaq Stock Market that it is not in compliance with the continued listing requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market contained in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) because shares of its Common Stock had closed at a per share bid price of less than $1.00 for at least 30 consecutive trading days. The Nasdaq notice has no immediate effect on the listing of the Company’s Common Stock. Under Nasdaq rules, the Company has a 180-day grace period to regain compliance, which extends to August 14, 2013. In order to regain compliance, shares of the Company’s Common Stock would need to close at a price of $1.00 per share or more for at least ten consecutive trading days at any time prior to August 14, 2013. The Company may be granted an additional 180-day grace period to regain compliance, if, at that time, it meets the initial listing criteria of the Nasdaq Capital Market, other than the minimum bid price requirement. In the event that the Company does not regain compliance within the requisite time period, it would have the right to appeal any delisting. The failure to maintain listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market may have an adverse effect on the price and/or liquidity of the Company’s Common Stock. We Face Uncertainties Relating To Sales And Other Taxes. We are not currently required to pay sales or other similar taxes in respect of shipments of goods into states other than California, Colorado, New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio. However, state taxation laws and regulations may change in the future, and one or more states may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, such as us, that engage in online commerce. In particular, certain states have recently enacted or are considering enacting laws, which would require an e-commerce retailer to collect sales tax on sales to customers in that state if it uses any marketing affiliates in such states. The enactment of any such law in any state will require us to either collect sales tax from customers in such state (which could decrease customer demand) or to stop using marketing affiliates in such state (which could have a negative impact on our marketing efforts). In addition, any new operations in states outside California, Colorado, New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio could subject shipments into such states to state sales taxes under current or future laws. A successful assertion by one or more states or any foreign country that the sale of merchandise by us is subject to sales or other taxes, could subject us to material liabilities and, to the extent that we pass such costs on to our customers, could decrease our sales. Unexpected Changes In Fashion Trends Could Cause Us To Have Either Excess Or Insufficient Inventory. Fashion trends can change rapidly, and our business is highly sensitive to such changes. There can be no assurance that we will accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends and adjust our merchandise mix to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our products or are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends or in market demand, we could experience insufficient or excess inventory levels or higher markdowns, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We Will Be Subject To Cyclical Variations In The Apparel And E-Commerce Markets. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. The unfavorable general economic conditions have affected retailers especially hard. Declines, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects could adversely affect consumer spending habits and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our net sales, cash flow and results of operations. Alternatively, any improvement, whether real or perceived, in economic conditions or prospects could adversely impact our ability to acquire merchandise and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, as our supply of merchandise is dependent on the inability of designers and retailers to sell their merchandise in full-price venues. See “Risk Factors – Negative Changes In The General Economic Environment Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Operating Results” and “Risk Factors – We Do Not Have Long-Term Contracts With Our Vendors And Therefore The Availability Of Merchandise Is At Risk.” 8 We Purchase Product From Some Indirect Supply Sources, Which Increases Our Risk of Litigation Involving The Sale Of Non-Authentic Or Damaged Goods. We purchase merchandise both directly from brand owners and indirectly from retailers and third party distributors. The purchase of merchandise from parties other than the brand owners increases the risk that we may mistakenly purchase and sell non-authentic or damaged goods, which could result in potential liability under applicable laws, regulations, agreements and orders. Moreover, any claims by a brand owner, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, generate bad publicity for us, and have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Security Breaches To Our Systems And Database Could Cause Interruptions To Our Business And Impact Our Reputation With Customers, And We May Incur Significant Expenses To Protect Against Such Breaches. A fundamental requirement for online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we use to protect customer transaction and personal data contained in our customer database. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. In order to guard against such compromise of our security measures, our expenses may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with customers, thereby affecting our long-term growth prospects. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to remediate problems caused by such breaches. Remediation costs may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused. Remediation costs may also include incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain the business relationships after an attack. We may also suffer lost sales, loss of customers and/or reputational damage from a compromise of our security measures. Brand Owners Could Establish Procedures To Limit Our Ability To Purchase Products Indirectly. Brand owners have implemented, and are likely to continue to implement, procedures to limit or control off-price retailers’ ability to purchase products indirectly. In addition, several brand owners in the U.S. have distinctive legal rights rendering them the only legal importer of their respective brands into the U.S. If we acquire such product indirectly from distributors and other third parties who may not have complied with applicable customs, laws and regulations, such goods could be subject to seizure from our inventory by U.S. Customs Service, and the importer may have a civil action for damages against us. See “Risk Factors - We Do Not Have Long-Term Contracts With Our Vendors And Therefore The Availability Of Merchandise Is At Risk.” We Are Heavily Dependent On Third Party Relationships, And Failures By A Third Party Could Cause Interruptions To Our Business. We are heavily dependent upon our relationships with our fulfillment operations provider, third party call center and Web hosting provider, delivery companies like UPS and the United States Postal Service, and credit card processing companies such as Litle, Paypal and Cybersource to service our customers' needs. To the extent that there is a slowdown in mail service or package delivery services, whether as a result of labor difficulties, terrorist activity or otherwise, our cash flow and results of operations would be negatively impacted during such slowdown, and the results of such slowdown would have a long-term negative effect on our reputation with our customers. The failure of our fulfillment operations provider, third party call center, credit card processors or Web hosting provider to properly perform their services for us would cause similar effects. We Are In Competition With Companies That Are Much Larger Than Ourselves. E-commerce generally, and in particular, the online retail apparel and fashion accessories market, is a dynamic, high-growth market that is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. Our competition for customers comes from a variety of sources including (a) existing land-based full price retailers, that are using the Internet to expand their channels of distribution (b) more established online companies (c) Flash sale off-price e-commerce websites (d) traditional direct marketers, and (e) traditional off-price retail stores. Competition in our industry has intensified, and we expect this trend will continue as the list of our competitors grows. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater brand name recognition and more firmly established supply relationships. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include (a) brand recognition (b)merchandise selection (c) price (d) convenience (e) customer service (f) order delivery performance, and (g) website features. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against competitors and future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us could force us to increase expenses and/or decrease our prices at some point in the future. We Need To Further Establish Brand Name Recognition. We believe that further establishing, maintaining and enhancing our brand is a critical aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our online traffic. The number of Internet sites that offer 9 competing services, many of which already have well established brands in online services or the retail apparel industry generally, increases the importance of establishing and maintaining brand name recognition. Promotion of our Websites will depend largely on our success in providing a high quality online experience supported by a high level of customer service, which cannot be assured. In addition, to attract and retain online users, and to promote and maintain our Websites in response to competitive pressures, we may find it necessary to increase substantially our advertising and marketing expenditures. If we are unable to provide high quality online services or customer support, or otherwise fail to promote and maintain our Websites, or if we incur excessive expenses in an attempt to promote and maintain our Websites, our long-term growth prospects would be materially adversely affected. There Can Be No Assurance That Our Technology Systems Will Be Able To Handle Increased Traffic; Implementation Of Changes To Our Websites. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Websites, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as maintain adequate customer service levels. Our net sales depend on the number of visitors who shop on our Websites and the volume of orders we can handle. Unavailability of our Websites or reduced order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of goods sold and could also adversely affect consumer perception of our brand name. We may experience periodic system interruptions from time to time. If there is a substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our Websites or the number of orders placed by customers, we will be required to expand and upgrade further our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our Websites or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases on a timely basis. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our Websites, which is particularly challenging given the rapid rate at which new technologies, customer preferences and expectations and industry standards and practices are evolving in the online commerce industry. Accordingly, we redesign and enhance various functions on our Websites on a regular basis, and we may experience instability and performance issues as a result of these changes. We May Be Subject To Higher Return Rates. We recognize that purchases of apparel and fashion accessories over the Internet may be subject to higher return rates than traditional store-bought merchandise. We have established a return policy in order to accommodate our customers and overcome any hesitancy they may have with shopping via the Internet. As a result, our reserve for returns and credit card chargebacks as a percentage of gross sales for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 were 34.4%, 37.1% and 38.7%, respectively. If return rates are higher than expected, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our Success Is Largely Dependent Upon Our Executive Personnel. We believe our success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our executive personnel. In particular, we rely upon their strategic guidance, their relationships and credibility in the vendor and financial communities and their ability to recruit key operating personnel. Our current employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and SVP of Merchandising runs through June 2014, December 2015 and June 2015, respectively. However, there can be no assurance that any of them will not terminate their employment earlier. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our credibility in the vendor communities and our ability to recruit new key operating personnel. Our Success Is Dependent Upon Our Ability To Attract New Key Personnel. Our operations will also depend to a great extent on our ability to attract new key personnel with relevant experience and retain existing key personnel in the future. The market for qualified personnel is extremely competitive. Our failure to attract additional qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long-term growth. We May Be Liable For Infringing On The Intellectual Property Rights Of Others. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we have been, and we expect to continue to be, subject to claims alleging infringement of the trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. These claims and any resulting litigation, if it occurs, could subject us to significant liability for damages. In addition, even if we prevail, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of our time and attention. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims unless we are able to enter into agreements with the third parties making these claims. We May Be Liable For Product Liability Claims. We sell products manufactured by third parties, some of which may be defective. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the retailer of the product. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could have a material adverse 10 effect on our cash flow and on our reputation with customers. Unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could have a negative impact on our business. We Cannot Guarantee The Protection Of Our Intellectual Property. Our intellectual property is critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, domain names and trade secret protection to protect our proprietary rights. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks or other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. While we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not prevent misappropriation. We are pursuing registration of various trademarks, service marks and domain names in the United States and abroad. Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country, and there can be no assurance that the United States or foreign jurisdictions will afford us any protection for our intellectual property. There also can be no assurance that any of our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, even to the extent that we are successful in defending our rights, we could incur substantial costs in doing so. Our Business Could Be Harmed By Consumers' Concerns About The Security Of Transactions Over The Internet. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and commercial online services, the increase in identity theft and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and commercial online services, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Moreover, although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Legal Uncertainties Relating To The Internet In General And To Our Industry In Particular That May Become Subject To Costly Government Regulation. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, and laws or regulations directly applicable to online commerce. However, it is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted that would apply to the Internet and other online services. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business online. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may increase our cost of doing business and/or decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. The applicability to the Internet of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may take years to resolve. Any such new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and online commerce could also increase our cost of doing business. In addition, some of the products we sell may be subject to federal, state or foreign regulation. If we were alleged to have violated federal, state or foreign, civil or criminal law, we could face material liability and damage to our reputation and, even if we successfully defend any such claim, we would incur significant costs in connection with such defense. The Holders Of Our Common Stock May Be Adversely Affected By The Rights Of Holders Of Preferred Stock That May Be Issued In The Future. Our Board has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. Accordingly, our Board is empowered, without approval of the holders of Common Stock, to issue preferred stock, for any reason and at any time, with such rates of dividends, redemption provisions, liquidation preferences, voting rights, conversion privileges and other characteristics as it may deem necessary or appropriate. The rights of holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Our Ability To Utilize Our Net Operating Loss Carry forwards May Be Limited. Our federal net operating loss carry forwards are subject to limitation on how much may be utilized on an annual basis. The use of the net operating loss carry forwards may have additional limitations resulting from certain future ownership changes or other factors pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), including the consummation of private placements in 2011, 2010 and 2009, which made us vulnerable to an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. Transfers of shares by shareholders who own 5% or more of our outstanding common stock could also have the effect of limiting our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. We have not performed a recent analysis of our ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code. If our net operating loss carry forwards are further limited, and we have taxable income which exceeds the available net operating loss carry forwards for that period, we would incur an income tax liability even though net operating loss carry 11 forwards may be available in future years prior to their expiration, which may adversely affect our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 