Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors might lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. We Need Additional Capital and We Have Substantially Reduced our Operating Activities At January 25, 2009, we had $183 thousand in cash and cash equivalents and $41 thousand in accounts receivable. We believe that this level of cash, cash equivalents and accounts receivable is not sufficient to maintain continuing operations at current levels. We have been unable to raise additional capital to fund operating activities and have ceased efforts to do so. The adequacy of our resources will depend largely on our ability to achieve positive operating cash flows principally through reductions in expenditures. These uncertainties raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are in the process of taking actions to achieve further reductions in our operating expenses. We also believe that we can take actions to generate cash by selling or licensing intellectual property. We are not generating sufficient cash from the sale of our products to support our operations and have been incurring significant losses. We have been funding our operations primarily with the cash proceeds raised through the sale of certain patents in February 2008. We expect to incur additional losses and may have negative operating cash flows through the end of our first fiscal quarter in April 2009 and beyond. During the fiscal year ended January 25, 2009, we raised approximately $9.5 million through the sale of certain patents. Unless we are able to decrease expenses substantially, we will not have sufficient cash to support our operations and may be forced to file for bankruptcy. We have taken steps to restructure our operations and reduce our monthly operational cash expenditures. There is no assurance that we will be successful in reducing our operating expenses, generating sufficient cash flows from operations or obtaining sufficient funding from any source on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations or cease operations. In such event, investors may lose a portion or all of their investment. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm, in respect of our 2009 fiscal year, includes an explanatory going concern paragraph regarding substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, which indicates an absence of obvious or reasonably assured sources of future funding that will be required by us to maintain ongoing operations. On September 24, 2008, we announced a cessation of our efforts to raise additional capital. As a result, we proceeded with efforts to substantially reduce our operating activities and reduce our on-going expenditures by terminating employment for substantially all of our operational and engineering employees in all worldwide locations. Beginning September 19, 2008, management, acting based upon a plan approved by our Board of Directors, eliminated 52 positions in the Company. On September 23, 2008, the remaining independent directors of the Company, Brett Moyer, Carl Stork and David Tomasello, notified the Company that they were resigning as directors of NeoMagic Corporation, effective September 23, 2008. We initiated efforts for the orderly reduction of our operations, including the fulfillment of our outstanding sales and other contracts, headcount reductions, securing continuing support for its existing customers, seeking purchasers for our intellectual property and tangible assets and providing for outstanding and anticipated liabilities. We anticipate that our operations will consist primarily of supporting sales orders from our existing customers, collecting the resulting receivables from such sales orders, collecting proceeds from assets sold, satisfying obligations, and administration of the corporation. We Have a Limited Customer Base In each of the last two fiscal years, three customers have accounted for over two-thirds of our product revenue. In fiscal 2009, one customer accounted for 86% of product revenue. In fiscal 2008, the top three customers accounted for 50%, 20%, and 14%, respectively, of product revenue. There was no licensing revenue in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our product revenue for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the majority of our sales were made, and are expected to continue to be made, on the basis of purchase orders rather than pursuant to long-term purchase agreements. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the decision of a single customer to cease using our products, or by a decline in the number of handheld devices sold by a single customer. We May Lose Our Customer Base Our products are designed to afford handheld device manufacturer significant advantages with respect to product performance, power consumption and product size. To the extent that other future developments in components or subassemblies incorporate one or more of the advantages offered by our products, the market demand for our products may be negatively impacted. We Have Been Delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market On October 6, 2008, we announced that we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination letter indicating that we did not comply with the minimum shareholders’ equity, market value of listed securities or net income requirements for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3), and that our common stock was therefore, subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market. We did not seek to challenge the Staff determination and delisting since we would be unable to comply with these requirements in the near term. As a result, our common stock was delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and trading of our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market was suspended at the opening of business on October 15, 2008. Trading in our common stock is now conducted through the over-the-counter market or on the Electronic Bulletin Board of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on any exchange. You may not be able to sell your shares of our stock quickly, at the market price or at all, if trading in our stock is not active. A Lack of Effective Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Could Result in an Inability to Accurately Report Our Financial Results Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we do not provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we will be subject to potential liability and may have to incur expenses to defend the Company against governmental proceedings or private litigation and/or to pay fines or damages. Such proceedings would also require significant management time and would distract management from focusing on the business. Failing to provide reliable financial reports would also cause loss of reputation in the investor community and would likely result in a decrease in our stock price. 4 Table of Contents Effective on January 9, 2009 the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Steven Berry, resigned. No replacement has been hired and the Chief Executive Office also holds the position of (Acting) Chief Financial Officer. In addition, the Company has significantly reduced its financial accounting staff which could decrease the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Our Revenues Are Difficult To Predict For a variety of reasons, our revenues are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our ability to achieve design wins depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including changes in the customer’s strategic and financial plans, competitive factors and overall market conditions. As our experience demonstrates, design wins themselves do not always lead to production orders because the customer may cancel or delay products for a variety of reasons. Such reasons may include the performance of a particular product that may depend on components not supplied by NeoMagic, market conditions, reorganizations or other internal developments at the customer and changes in customer personnel or strategy. Even when a customer has begun volume production of a product containing our chips, volumes are difficult to forecast because there may be no history to provide a guide, and because market conditions and other factors may cause changes in the customer’s plans. Because of the market uncertainties they face, many customers place purchase orders on a short lead-time basis, rather than providing reliable long-term purchase orders or purchase forecasts. Our customer base can shift significantly from period to period as existing customer programs end and new programs do not always replace ending programs. All of these factors make it difficult to predict our revenues from period to period. The difficulty in forecasting revenues increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements. This difficulty increases the likelihood that we may overproduce particular parts, resulting in inventory write-downs, or under-produce particular parts, affecting our ability to meet customer requirements. The difficulty in forecasting revenues also restricts our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance to the financial markets and increases the chance that our revenue performance does not match investor expectations. We May Encounter Inventory Excess or Shortage To have product inventory to meet potential customer purchase orders, we place purchase orders for semiconductor wafers from our manufacturer in advance of having firm purchase orders from our customers. If we do not have sufficient demand for our products and cannot cancel our current and future commitments without material impact, we may experience excess inventory, which will result in an inventory write-down affecting gross margin and results of operations. If we cancel a purchase order, we must pay cancellation penalties based on the status of work in process or the proximity of the cancellation to the delivery date. We must place purchase orders for wafers before we receive purchase orders from our own customers. This limits our ability to react to fluctuations in demand for our products, which can be unexpected and dramatic, and from time to time will cause us to have an excess or shortage of wafers for a particular product. As a result of the long lead-time for manufacturing wafers and the increase in “just-in-time” ordering by customers, semiconductor companies from time-to-time take charges for excess inventory. We have in fact incurred such charges in fiscal 2009 of $3.6 million and in fiscal 2008 of $0.4 million. Significant write-downs for excess inventory have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, failure to order sufficient wafers would cause us to miss revenue opportunities and, if significant, could impact sales by our customers, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Face Intense Competition in Our Markets The market for Applications Processors is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. We believe that the principal factors of competition in this market are audio/video performance, price, features, power consumption, product size and customer support as well as company stability. Our ability to compete successfully in the Applications Processor market depends on a number of factors, including success in designing and subcontracting the manufacture of new products that implement new technologies, product quality and reliability, price, ramp of production of our products, customer demand and acceptance of more sophisticated multimedia functionality on mobile phones and other handheld devices, end-user acceptance of our customers’ products, market acceptance of competitors’ products and general economic conditions. Our ability to compete will also depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards and market trends. Our small size and perceived instability are negative factors in competing for business. We compete with both domestic and foreign companies, some of which have substantially greater financial and other resources than us with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Our main competitors include Texas Instruments, Renesas, Marvell, Freescale, ST Microelectronics, Broadcom, Mediatek, Mtekvision, Core Logic, Telechips and C&S Technologies. We may also face increased competition from new entrants into the market, including companies currently in the development stage. We believe we have significant intellectual properties and have historically demonstrated expertise in SOC technology. However, if we cannot timely introduce new products for our markets, support these products in customer programs, or manufacture these products, such inabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Some of our current and potential competitors operate their own manufacturing facilities. Since we do not operate our own manufacturing facility and may from time-to-time make binding commitments to purchase products, we may not be able to reduce our costs and cycle time or adjust our production to meet changing demand as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if production levels increase the value of binding purchase orders may increase significantly. 5 Table of Contents Uncertainty Regarding Future Licensing Revenue and Gain on Sale of Patents The patents sold related to products we no longer sell and not to products that we currently sell or plan to sell. We retained a worldwide, non-exclusive license under the patents sold. The sales did not include our important patents covering the unique array processing technology used in our newer MiMagic and NeoMobileTV products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate any future licensing revenue or gains on sales of patents from our remaining 15 patents as January 25, 2009, or from any future patents that we will own or have the right to license. The licensing agreement with Sony may be the only licensing agreement that we ever complete and the patent sales noted above may be the only patent sales we complete. Furthermore, if we should in the future complete an agreement to license or sell our patents, we cannot assure you that the proceeds we receive from such transaction will be as significant as the proceeds we received from Sony and Faust. We Depend on Qualified Personnel Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, finance and executive personnel, and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel to serve potential customers in our targeted markets. There is strong competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. We have experienced the loss of personnel both through headcount reductions and attrition. In the past two years we have lost some of our executive management, including Jeffery Blanc (Vice President, Worldwide Sales), Pierre-Yves Couteau (Vice President of Marketing), Deepraj Puar (Vice President of Operations), and Scott Sullinger (CFO). Steve Berry joined NeoMagic on August 6, 2007 as CFO. Mr. Berry left the Company in January 2009. All our executive officers are employees “at will”. We have employment contracts with Douglas R. Young, our chief executive officer, and Syed Zaidi, our chief operating officer, and until his departure in January 2009 with Steve Berry, our chief financial officer. Until their departure in September 2008, we had employment contracts with Deepraj Puar, our vice president of operations, and Pierre-Yves Couteau, our vice president of marketing. The employment contracts allow us to terminate their employment at any time but require us to make severance payments depending upon the circumstances surrounding termination of employment. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our personnel. If we are not able to retain key personnel, if our headcount is not appropriate for our future direction, or if we fail to recruit key personnel critical to our future direction in a timely manner, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our future success will depend in part on our ability to identify and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors. We believe that maintaining a board of directors comprised of qualified members is critical given the current status of our business and operations. Moreover, SEC and Nasdaq Capital Market rules require that three independent board members serve on our audit committee. Any inability on our part to identify and retain qualified board members could have a material adverse effect on our business and we have been delist from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our stock currently is trading on the Bulleting Board “pink sheet”. Our Products May be Incompatible with Evolving Industry Standards and Market Trends Our ability to compete in the future will also depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards and market trends. Unanticipated changes in market trends and industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products or obtain license rights to technologies owned by third parties to comply with relevant industry standards and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to redesign our products or obtain the necessary third-party licenses within the appropriate window of market demand. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing market trends and industry standards for a significant period of time, we could miss crucial OEM and ODM design cycles, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Depend on Third-Party Manufacturers to Produce Our Products Our products require wafers manufactured with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. We currently use one third-party foundry for wafer fabrication. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, all of our products will be manufactured at Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation on a purchase-order-by-purchase-order basis. Since, in our experience, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new wafer fabrication partner is at least 12 months, and the estimated time for a foundry to switch to a new product line ranges from four to nine months, we may have no readily available alternative source of supply for specific products. In addition to time constraints, switching foundries would require a diversion of engineering manpower and financial resources to redesign our products so that the new foundry could manufacture them. We cannot assure you that we can redesign our products to be manufactured by a new foundry in a timely manner, nor can we assure you that we will not infringe on the intellectual property of our current wafer manufacturer when we redesign our products for a new foundry. A manufacturing disruption experienced by our manufacturing partner, the failure of our manufacturing partner to dedicate adequate resources to the production of our products, or the financial instability of our manufacturing partner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if the transition to the next generation of manufacturing technologies by our manufacturing partner is unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We have many other risks due to our dependence on a third-party manufacturer, including: reduced control over delivery schedules, quality, manufacturing yields and cost, the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand, limited warranties on wafers supplied to us, and potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. We are dependent on our manufacturing partner to produce wafers with acceptable quality and manufacturing yields, to deliver those wafers on a timely basis to our third party assembly subcontractors and to allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs. Although our products are designed using the process design rules of the particular manufacturer, we cannot assure you that our manufacturing partner will be able to achieve or maintain acceptable yields or deliver sufficient quantities of wafers on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Additionally, we cannot assure you that our manufacturing partner will continue to devote adequate resources to produce our products or continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. 6 Table of Contents We Rely on Third-Party Subcontractors to Assemble and Test Our Products Our products are assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, the vast majority of our products will be packaged and assembled at Amkor Technology on a purchase-order-by-purchase-order basis. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these subcontractors. Such assembly and testing is conducted on a purchase order basis. Because we rely on third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products, we cannot directly control product delivery schedules, which could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems that could increase the costs of manufacturing or assembly of our products. Due to the amount of time normally required to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, product shipments could be delayed significantly if we were required to find alternative subcontractors. Any problems associated with the delivery, quality or cost of the assembly and test of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Manufacturing Yields May Fluctuate Fabricating semiconductors is an extremely complex process, which typically includes hundreds of process steps. Minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, defects in masks used to print circuits on a wafer, variation in equipment used and numerous other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or a significant number of die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. Many of these problems are difficult to diagnose and time consuming or expensive to remedy. As a result, semiconductor companies often experience problems in achieving acceptable wafer manufacturing yields, which are represented by the number of good die as a proportion of the total number of die on any particular wafer. We typically purchase wafers, not die, and pay an agreed upon price for wafers meeting certain acceptance criteria. Accordingly, we bear the risk of the yield of good die from wafers purchased meeting the acceptance criteria. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function of both product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which is typically proprietary to the manufacturer. Historically, we have experienced lower yields on new products. Since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems would require cooperation and communication between the manufacturer and us. This risk is compounded by the offshore location of our manufacturers, increasing the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. As our relationships with new manufacturing partners develop, yields could be adversely affected due to difficulties associated with adapting our technology and product design to the proprietary process technology and design rules of each manufacturer. Any significant decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit product cost and could force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers, potentially adversely impacting customer relationships as well as revenues and gross margins. We cannot assure you that our manufacturers will achieve or maintain acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. Uncertainty and Litigation Risk Associated with Patents and Protection of Proprietary Rights We rely in part on patents to protect our intellectual property. As of January 25, 2009, we had been issued and held 15 patents. These issued patents are scheduled to expire between 2014 and 2025. In February 2008 we sold 18 patents and one patent application to Faust Communications, LLC for net proceeds of $9.5 million. The patents sold related to products we no longer sell and not to products that we currently sell or plan to sell. We retained a worldwide, non-exclusive license under the patents sold. The sales did not include our important patents covering the unique array processing technology used in our newer MiMagic and NeoMobileTV products. Additionally, we have several patent applications pending. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, or any future applications, will be approved. Further, we cannot assure you that any issued patents will provide us with significant intellectual property protection, competitive advantages, or will not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We also rely on a combination of mask work protection, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property. Despite these efforts, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property or disclose such intellectual property or trade secrets, or that we can meaningfully protect our intellectual property. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a general matter, the semiconductor industry has experienced substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In December 1998, the Company filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware seeking damages and an injunction against Trident Microsystems, Inc. The suit alleged that Trident’s embedded DRAM graphics accelerators infringed certain patents held by the Company. In January 1999, Trident filed a counter claim against the Company alleging an attempted monopolization in violation of antitrust laws, arising from NeoMagic’s filing of the patent infringement action against Trident. In September 2005, the Court ruled that there was no infringement by Trident. Any patent litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, would at a minimum be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from productive tasks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that current or future infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers or end users of our products resulting from infringement claims will not be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be true, will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any adverse ruling in any such matter occurs, we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could include treble damages, to cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, to discontinue the use of certain processes, or to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement. We cannot assure you, however, that a license would be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any limitations in our ability to market our products, or delays and costs associated with redesigning our products or payments of license fees to third parties, or any failure by us to develop or license a substitute technology on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Depend on Foreign Sales and Suppliers Export sales have been a critical part of our business. Sales to customers located outside the United States (including sales to the foreign operations of customers with headquarters in the United States and foreign manufacturers that sell to United States-based OEMs) accounted for 99%, and 96% of our product revenue for fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that product revenue derived from foreign sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our total product revenue. Letters of credit issued by customers have supported a portion of our foreign sales. To date, our foreign sales have been denominated in United States dollars. Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of our customers could make our products relatively more expensive than competitors’ products sold in the customer’s local currency. 7 Table of Contents Foreign manufacturers have produced, and are expected to continue to produce for the foreseeable future, all of our wafers. In addition, many of the assembly and test services we use are procured from foreign sources. Wafers are priced in U.S. dollars under our purchase orders with our manufacturing suppliers. Foreign sales and manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences and export license requirements. In addition, we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally including foreign government regulation, political and economic instability, and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be developed, manufactured or sold, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, thus increasing the possibility of piracy of our products and intellectual property. We cannot assure you that one or more of these risks will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Financial Results Could Be Affected by Changes in Accounting Principles Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to issuance and interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Our Stock Price May Be Volatile The market price of our Common Stock, like that of other semiconductor companies, has been and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, during fiscal 2009, the highest closing sales price per share was $1.68 and the lowest was less than $0.01. During fiscal 2008, the highest closing sales price was $4.52 and the lowest was $1.68 per share. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, including sales of our common stock, quarter-to-quarter variations in our anticipated or actual operating results, announcements of new products, technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors, general conditions in the semiconductor industry, unanticipated shifts in the markets for mobile phones and other handheld devices or changes in industry standards, losses of key customers, litigation commencement or developments, the impact of our financing activities, including dilution to shareholders, changes in or the failure by us to meet estimates of our performance by securities analysts, market conditions for high technology stocks in general, and other events or factors. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 