ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to our financial results, financial reporting and need for financing We continue to require substantial amounts of capital, without which we will be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our development efforts to date have consumed and will continue to require substantial amounts of capital in connection with the research and development of Symphony and Prelude. As we conduct more advanced development of our product candidates, we will need significant funding to complete our product development programs and to pursue product commercialization. Our ability to conduct our research, development and planned commercialization activities associated with our product pipeline is highly dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient financing. Our capital requirements may vary from what we expect. There are factors, a number of which are outside our control, that may accelerate our need for additional financing, including: · the costs, timing and risks of delay of obtaining regulatory approvals; · the expenses we incur in developing, selling and marketing our products; · the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; the revenue generated by sales of our product candidates currently under development and any other future products that we may develop; · the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development activities; · the success of our research and development efforts; · the emergence of competing or complementary technological developments; · the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; and · the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. We expect to seek funding through public or private financings or from existing or new licensing and collaboration agreements; however, the market for stock of companies in the medical device sector in general, and the market for our common stock in particular, is highly volatile. Due to market conditions and the development status of our product pipeline, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to meet our research, development and commercialization goals, which in turn could adversely affect our business. We have a history of operating losses and we expect our operating losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have generated limited revenue and have had operating losses since inception, including a net loss of approximately $16,722,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $81,570,000 as of December 31, 2011. We have no current sources of material ongoing revenue, other than the recognition of revenue from upfront license fees and potential future milestone payments and royalties under our current license and collaboration agreements. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with our research and development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We also expect to have negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. This will result in decreases in our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity, which may not be offset by future funding. If we are not able to commercialize our product candidates, we may never generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability, and even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase it on a quarterly or annual basis. We expect our operating losses to continue and increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to expend substantial resources to conduct research and development, seek to obtain regulatory approval for Symphony and Prelude, identify and secure collaborative partnerships, and manage and execute our obligations in current and possible future strategic collaborations. Our failure to become and remain profitable may depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. -8- Table of Contents Securities we issue to fund our operations could dilute our stock or otherwise adversely affect our stockholders. We will likely need to raise substantial additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings to fund our operations. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our Common Stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our Common Stock. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of current stockholders may be significantly reduced, including as a result of any issuance of warrants, and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through debt financing, the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations or covenants that could restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. We have significant intangible assets, and any impairment of intangibles could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. Technology-related intangible assets, such as patents, drug master files and in-process research and development, represent a significant portion of our assets. As of December 31, 2011, these intangible assets comprised approximately 49% of our total assets. Intangible assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Additionally, indefinite lived assets are subject to an impairment test at least annually. A significant portion of our intangible assets relates to our Durhalieve™ and AzoneTS™ pharmaceutical product candidates that we acquired in 2007. If we abandon or do not continue our efforts to develop these product candidates, the value of the related assets will become impaired. Other events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in our industry and cannot be predicted. As a result of the significance of our intangible assets, our results of operations and financial position in a future period could be negatively impacted should an impairment occur. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and/or expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards or practices or in existing taxation rules or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. The methods by which we intend to market and sell our product candidates, if commercialized, may have an impact on the manner in which we recognize revenue. In addition, changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Changes in taxation rules related to stock options and other forms of equity compensation could also have a significant negative effect on our reported results. Additionally, changes to accounting rules or standards, such as the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, may adversely impact our reported financial results and business, and may further require us to incur greater accounting fees. Valuation of share-based payments, which we are required to perform for purposes of recording compensation expense under authoritative guidance for share-based payments, involves significant assumptions that are subject to change and difficult to predict. We record compensation expense in the consolidated statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The requirements of the authoritative guidance for share-based payments have had and will continue to have a material effect on our future financial results reported under GAAP and make it difficult for us to accurately predict the impact on our future financial results. For instance, estimating the fair value of share-based payments is highly dependent on assumptions regarding the future exercise behavior of our employees and changes in our stock price. Our share-based payments have characteristics significantly different from those of freely traded options, and changes to the subjective input assumptions of our share-based payment valuation models can materially change our estimates of the fair values of our share-based payments. In addition, the actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of share-based payments might be significantly different than our estimates of the fair values of those awards as determined at the date of grant. Moreover, we rely on third parties that supply us with information or help us perform certain calculations that we employ to estimate the fair value of share-based payments. If any of these parties do not perform as expected or make errors, we may inaccurately calculate actual or estimated compensation expense for share-based payments. -9- Table of Contents The authoritative guidance for share-based payments could also adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future financial results as assumptions that are used to estimate the fair value of share-based payments are based on estimates and judgments that may differ from period to period. We may also be unable to accurately predict the amount and timing of the recognition of tax benefits associated with share-based payments as they are highly dependent on the exercise behavior of our employees and the price of our stock relative to the exercise price of each outstanding stock option. For those reasons, among others, the authoritative guidance for share-based payments may create variability and uncertainty in the share-based compensation expense we will record in future periods, which could adversely impact our financial results and, in turn, our stock price and increase our expected stock price volatility as compared to prior periods. If we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, and our stock price and our business may be adversely impacted. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting, and our management is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. Additionally, we are required to disclose in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the SEC. Additionally, even if there were no inaccuracies or omissions, we would be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether or not they believe that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. These events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management’s attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market or any other securities exchange on which it is then listed. Risks related to our Common Stock Our principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders holding at least 5% of our Common Stock on an as-converted basis, assuming the exercise and conversion of all currently outstanding exercisable and convertible securities, own approximately 40% of our outstanding capital stock. Accordingly, these stockholders may continue to have significant influence over our affairs. Additionally, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, because an investor could perceive disadvantages in owning stock of a company with a concentration of ownership. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control. Furthermore, as long as the purchasers in our January 2007 strategic private placement own at least 20% of the shares they purchased in that transaction, that group of purchasers has the right to designate one director for election to our Board of Directors. The candidate may be designated by the purchasers holding at least a majority of the shares of our Common Stock purchased in the January 2007 financing. None of our current directors has been so designated, as the purchasers are not currently exercising their designation rights. Substantial sales of shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and our ability to issue equity securities in the future. Substantially all of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock are eligible for resale in the public market. We have also registered shares of our Common Stock that we may issue under our equity incentive plans. If stockholders sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the market perceives that any such sales may occur, the market price of our Common Stock could decline, which might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-linked securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales of our Common Stock may have on the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. -10- Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate in the future, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which we cannot control. For example, since January 1, 2011, our Common Stock has closed between a low price of $1.49 and a high price of $4.72. Among the factors that could cause material fluctuations in the market price for our Common Stock are: · our ability to successfully raise capital to fund our continued operations; · the success or failure of the development and clinical testing of our product candidates within acceptable timeframes; · changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates; · additions or departures of key personnel; · our financial condition, performance and prospects; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; · our ability to enter into and maintain successful collaborative arrangements with strategic partners for research and development, clinical testing, and sales and marketing; · sales of large blocks of our Common Stock by officers, directors or significant stockholders; · investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or product development timelines; · general financial and other market conditions and trading volumes of similar companies; and · domestic and international economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the medical device sector of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to, or to an extent disproportionate to, the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price may make our stock attractive to momentum traders, hedge funds or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business, and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all costs and damages. Broad market fluctuations, particularly in the technology and life sciences sectors, may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. In the past, companies have often faced class action litigation following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Risks related to our operations, business strategy and development of our product candidates Our product candidates are based on new technologies and may not be successfully developed or achieve market acceptance. Our products under development have a high risk of failure because they are based on new technologies. To date, we have tested the feasibility of Prelude for various applications, including continuous glucose monitoring and certain topical anesthetic applications. We have also tested the feasibility of Symphony for the monitoring of glucose on a continuous basis. Our development of our product candidates for their current intended uses and any other uses for which they may be developed in the future, and any other product candidates we are developing or may develop, will require substantial expenditures, including for feasibility studies, preclinical studies and clinical testing. Projected costs of this development are difficult to estimate, and they may change and increase frequently. -11- Table of Contents Our success is also dependent on further developing new and existing products and obtaining favorable results from preclinical studies and clinical trials, as well as satisfying regulatory standards and approvals required for the market introduction of our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter unforeseen problems in the development of our product candidates, or that we will be able to successfully address problems that do arise. There can be no assurance that any of our potential products will be successfully developed, be proven safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs, or be eligible for third-party reimbursement from governmental or private insurers. Even if we successfully develop new products, there can be no assurance that those products will be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance, or that expected markets will develop for such products. The degree of market acceptance will depend in part on our ability to: · establish and demonstrate to the medical community the clinical efficacy and safety of our current product candidates and any other product candidates we may develop; · create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market; and · establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our product candidates over alternative available products. In addition, because our product candidates are based on new technologies, they may be subject to lengthy sales cycles and may take substantial time and effort to achieve market acceptance, especially at hospitals, which typically have a lengthy and rigorous approval process for adopting new technologies. If any of our development programs are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals or clearances are not obtained, or potential products for which approvals or clearances are obtained are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our future success may be dependent in part upon successful development of Symphony for the hospital critical care market. We have completed the initial prototypes of Symphony and have conducted several feasibility human clinical studies at a leading Boston-area hospital, with a member of our Medical Advisory Board serving as principal investigator. Although we believe the clinical rationale exists for Symphony for the critical care market, there can be no assurance that such a market will be established, or that we will be able to successfully develop a product that will prove effective for this market or gain market acceptance should such a market develop. Our Symphony product development process may take several years and will require substantial capital outlays. If the critical care market does not develop as we expect, or if we are unable to successfully develop Symphony for such market on a timely basis and within cost constraints, then our business and financial results will be materially adversely affected. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions makes it difficult to predict product demand and other trends that could impact our business and increases the likelihood that our actual results could differ materially from expectations. Our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions, which have been adversely impacted by the global macroeconomic downturn over the last few years. These conditions have made, and may continue to make, it difficult for our potential customers to afford our product candidates, and could cause patients to stop using our product candidates or to use them less frequently. If that were to occur after we commercialize any product candidate, we would experience a decrease in revenue and our performance would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the reoccurrence of any economic slowdown or the strength or sustainability of the economic recovery, worldwide, in the United States, or in our industry. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain our key personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially Patrick T. Mooney, M.D., our CEO, President and Chairman, and the senior members of our product development team. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including salespersons, scientists, clinicians, engineers and other highly-skilled personnel. Competition for senior management personnel, as well as salespersons, scientists, clinicians and engineers, is intense, and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of the services of members of our senior management, scientists, clinicians or engineers could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the completion of development and commercialization of our current product candidates and the development and introduction of additional products. The loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Each of our officers may terminate their employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. -12- Table of Contents We expect to continue to expand our operations and grow our research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, product development and administrative operations. This expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly-skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We may not be able to obtain and maintain the third-party relationships that are necessary to develop, commercialize and manufacture some or all of our product candidates. We depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, contract research organizations, manufacturers and other third parties to support our efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates, to manufacture prototypes and clinical and commercial scale quantities of our product candidates and products and to market, sell and distribute any products we successfully develop. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trial and to perform related data collection and analysis; however, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If these clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials, fail to ensure compliance by patients with clinical protocols or fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we will be unable to successfully complete these trials, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing place substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, or the clinical data may be rejected by the applicable regulatory authorities, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, manufacturers and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates, which will in turn adversely affect our business. We expect to expend substantial management time and effort to enter into relationships with third parties and, if we successfully enter into such relationships, to manage these relationships. In addition, substantial amounts of our expenditures may be paid to third parties in these relationships. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion, if at all. In addition, our contract partners may abandon research projects and terminate applicable agreements prior to or upon the expiration of agreed-upon contract terms. Disputes under key agreements or conflicts of interest with our scientific advisors, clinical investigators or other third-party collaborators could delay or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates. Any agreements we have or may enter into with third parties, such as collaborators, licensees, suppliers, manufacturers, clinical research organizations, clinical investigators or clinical trial sites, may give rise to disputes regarding the rights and obligations of the parties. Disagreements could develop over rights to ownership or use of intellectual property, the scope and direction of research and development, the approach for regulatory approvals or commercialization strategy. We intend to conduct research programs in a range of therapeutic areas, but our pursuit of these opportunities could result in conflicts with the other parties to these agreements that may be developing or selling products or conducting other activities in the same therapeutic areas. Any disputes or commercial conflicts could lead to the termination of our agreements, delay progress of our product development programs, compromise our ability to renew agreements or obtain future agreements, lead to the loss of intellectual property rights or result in costly litigation. We collaborate with outside scientific advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. Our scientific advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. If a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services and have difficulty in developing relationships with alternative scientific advisors and collaborators. -13- Table of Contents We may have challenges in managing our outside contractors for product and regulatory matters. We rely heavily upon and have relationships with outside contractors and consultants with expertise in product development, regulatory strategy, manufacturing and other matters. These parties are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of consultants and outside contractors and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration and consulting agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. If any third party with whom we have or enter into a relationship is unable or refuses to contribute to projects on which we need assistance, our ability to generate advances in our technologies and develop our product candidates could be significantly harmed. If future clinical studies or other articles are published, or diabetes associations or other organizations announce positions that are unfavorable to our product candidates, our efforts to obtain additional capital and our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates may be negatively affected. Future clinical studies or other articles regarding our existing product candidates or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor’s product is clinically more effective or easier to use than our product candidates or that our product candidates are not as effective or easy to use as we claim. Additionally, diabetes associations or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative could endorse products or methods that compete with our product candidates or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to our product candidates. Any of these events may negatively affect our efforts to obtain additional capital and our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, which would result in a delay in our ability to obtain revenue from sales of those product candidates. We operate in the highly competitive medical device market and face competition from large, well-established companies with significantly more resources and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. The industry in which we operate is extremely competitive. Many companies, universities and research organizations developing competing product candidates have greater resources and significantly greater experience in financial, research and development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution and regulatory matters than we have. In addition, many competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive collaborative relationships. Our competitors could commence and complete clinical testing of their product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals, and begin commercial-scale manufacturing of their products faster than we are able to for our product candidates. They could develop products that would render our product candidates and those of our collaborators obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively against these companies, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates or achieve a competitive position in the market. This would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. The markets for glucose monitoring and drug delivery devices are particularly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Several companies are developing or currently marketing continuous glucose monitoring products for diabetes home-use purposes that will compete directly with Symphony. To date, Abbott Laboratories, Cygnus, Inc., DexCom, Inc., and Medtronic, Inc., have received approval from the FDA for continuous glucose monitors for diabetes home-use purposes. To the best of our knowledge, the products originally developed and marketed by Cygnus and Abbott are no longer actively marketed in the United States. No company has received FDA approval for a device for continuous glucose monitoring in a hospital setting, but Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, Luminous Medical, Inc., Optiscan Biomedical Corp. and Glumetrics Inc. are among those companies actively developing continuous or near-continuous glucose monitoring devices for use in a hospital setting. Many of the companies developing or marketing competing glucose monitoring and drug delivery devices enjoy several competitive advantages, including: · affiliation with a large publicly traded company; · significantly greater name recognition; · established relationships with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; · established distribution networks; · additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; · greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved products; and · greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. -14- Table of Contents As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products, which may adversely affect our operating results. Technological breakthroughs in the glucose monitoring market could render Symphony obsolete. The glucose monitoring market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Symphony is based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies and medical researchers are pursuing new technologies for the monitoring of glucose levels. FDA approval of a commercially viable continuous glucose monitor or sensor produced by one of our competitors could significantly reduce market acceptance of Symphony. Several of our competitors are in various stages of developing continuous glucose monitors or sensors, including non-invasive and invasive devices, and we are aware that the FDA has approved four of these competing products for diabetes home-use purposes. In addition, Symphony could be rendered obsolete by other technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment, prevention or cure. We may have significant product liability exposure, which may harm our business and our reputation. We may face exposure to product liability and other claims if our product candidates or processes are alleged to have caused harm. These risks are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products or product candidates that we develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, product candidates or processes, our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, would divert management resources and may also generate negative publicity or hurt our ability to obtain physician endorsement of our products or expand our business. Potential long-term complications resulting from our product candidates may not be revealed by our clinical experience to date. If unanticipated long-term side effects were to result from the use of Prelude, Symphony or any other product candidates that we are developing or may develop, we could be subject to liability and our product offerings would not be widely adopted. We have limited clinical experience with repeated use of our product candidates in the same patient. We cannot assure you that long-term use would not result in unanticipated complications. Furthermore, the interim results from our current preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be indicative of the clinical results obtained when we examine the patients at later dates. It is possible that repeated use of our product candidates may result in unanticipated adverse effects. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon our ability to establish and maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark law, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property; however, such methods may not be adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or at all. Our issued patents, and those that may issue in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing products that are similar to our product candidates. We may in the future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of the litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, or are invalid or unenforceable, and could award attorney fees to the other party. -15- Table of Contents Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so, or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, third parties may be able to design around our patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. We may be subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from commercializing our product candidates, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. As is generally the case in the medical device industry in which we operate, third parties may, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current product candidates or any future products that we may develop. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain; therefore, we cannot be certain that we will not be found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties or others. Our competitors may assert that they hold U.S. or foreign patents that cover our product candidates, technologies and/or the methods we employ in the use of Prelude and Symphony. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued patents and pending patent applications relating to self-monitored glucose testing systems. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components of our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the market for continuous glucose monitoring and drug delivery systems grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling our product that is found to infringe unless we obtain the right to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain such rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Even if we are able to redesign our products to avoid an infringement claim, we may not receive regulatory authority approval for such changes in a timely manner or at all. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages and prejudgment interest for the infringement and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, selling or offering to sell our products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. We have no experience in sales, marketing and distribution and may have to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, which could prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. To eventually commercialize our product candidates, we must either develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time-consuming, or we must make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. If we decide to market any of our products on our own, we will have to commit significant resources to developing a marketing and sales force and supporting distribution capabilities. If we decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for performance of these services, we may find that they are not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we do enter into third-party arrangements, the third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our products. If we are not able to establish and maintain successful arrangements with third parties or build our own sales and marketing infrastructure, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. -16- Table of Contents Risks related to regulatory approvals and government regulation None of our current product candidates have received regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to market one or more of our current product candidates, our business will be adversely affected. We do not know whether regulatory agencies will grant approval for Prelude, Symphony or any of our other product candidates. Even if we complete preclinical studies and clinical trials successfully, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or we may not receive approval to make claims about our products that we believe to be necessary to effectively market our products. We cannot market any product candidate until we have completed all necessary preclinical studies and clinical trials and have obtained the necessary regulatory approvals. Outside the United States, our ability to market any of our potential products is dependent upon receiving marketing approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described in the next risk factor below, plus additional risks. If we are unable to receive regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and we may need to cease or curtail our operations. The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. The preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of medical devices and specialty pharmaceuticals are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the United States and other countries. We or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval for each of our product candidates before marketing or selling any of them. It is not possible to predict how long the approval processes of the FDA or any other applicable federal or foreign regulatory authority or agency for any of our products will take or whether any such approvals ultimately will be granted. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the medical device and drug approval process, and positive results in preclinical testing or early phases of clinical studies offer no assurance of success in later phases of the approval process. Generally, preclinical and clinical testing of products can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we encounter significant delays in the regulatory process that result in excessive costs, it may prevent us from continuing to develop our product candidates. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to generate product revenue. The risks associated with the approval process include: · failure of our product candidates to meet a regulatory entity’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality; · limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed; · unforeseen safety issues or side effects; and · governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines. If we are unable to successfully complete the preclinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support an application for regulatory approval, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates, which could impair our financial position. Before submitting an application for regulatory approval for our products, we or our collaborators must successfully complete preclinical studies and clinical trials that we believe will demonstrate that our product is safe and effective. Product development, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failure at any stage. Furthermore, the data obtained from the studies and trials may be inadequate to support approval of an application for regulatory approval, as the case may be. With respect to our medical device programs, we may in the future obtain an Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, prior to commencing clinical trials for Symphony. FDA approval of an IDE application permitting us to conduct testing does not mean that the FDA will consider the data gathered in the trial to be sufficient to support regulatory approval, even if the trial’s intended safety and efficacy endpoints are achieved. In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials of our products that vary from country to country. -17- Table of Contents The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support regulatory approval for numerous reasons, including the following: · the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; · patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; · patients do not comply with trial protocols; · patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect; · patients experience adverse side effects; · patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to treatment using our product candidates; · institutional review boards, or IRBs, and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocols; · third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator agreements, clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA, foreign regulatory authority or IRB requirements; · third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans; · regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or contract manufacturing facilities may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials; · changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; · the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and · the FDA or foreign regulatory authority concludes that our trial design, conduct or results are inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results, and predecessor clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If the FDA or foreign regulatory authority concludes that the clinical trial design, conduct or results are inadequate to prove safety or efficacy, it may require us to pursue additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the approval of our products. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market our products. The data we collect from our current clinical trials, our preclinical studies and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval. If we, our contract manufacturers or our component suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, the manufacturing and distribution of our products could be interrupted, and our operating results could suffer. We, our contract manufacturers and our component suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s or foreign regulatory authority’s quality system regulations, which is a complex regulatory framework that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. The regulatory authorities enforce their quality system regulations through periodic unannounced inspections. We cannot assure you that our facilities or our contract manufacturers’ or component suppliers’ facilities would pass any future quality system inspection. If our or any of our contract manufacturers’ or component suppliers’ facilities fails a quality system inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our product candidates could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection could force a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations or the manufacturing operations of our contract manufacturers, or a recall of our products. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our clinical investigational sites and our customers with the products they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers, any or all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -18- Table of Contents Our products could be subject to recalls even if we receive regulatory clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to manufacturing practices, labeling, advertising or promotional activities, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety or efficacy of these products. A government-mandated recall could occur if the regulatory authority finds that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. A voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, harm our reputation with customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and if we fail to comply with applicable laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare and related industries are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to: · billing for services; · financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources; · inducements and courtesies given to physicians and other health care providers and patients; · labeling products; · quality of medical equipment and services; · confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and individually identifiable health information; · medical device reporting; · false claims; and · professional licensure. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in some cases, still evolving. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations that govern our activities, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations. The risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. In addition, healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future. Any new healthcare laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. A review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities may result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. Also, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts or adversely impacts our operations. We are not aware of any governmental healthcare investigations involving our executives or us; however, any future healthcare investigations of our executives, our managers or us could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -19- Table of Contents We may be subject to fines, penalties and injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved off-label uses. If the FDA or foreign regulatory authority determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Compliance with regulations relating to public company corporate governance matters and reporting is time-consuming and expensive. The laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and rules adopted or proposed by the SEC, have resulted, and may in the future result, in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and regulations and respond to new requirements under such rules and regulations. We are required to comply with many of these rules and regulations, and will be required to comply with additional rules and regulations in the future. As a pre-commercialization stage company with limited capital and personnel, we will need to divert management’s time and attention away from our business in order to ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements. 