Risk Factors The current economic slowdown has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and profitability. The automotive retail industry is influenced by general economic conditions and particularly by consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary spending, interest rates, fuel prices, unemployment rates and credit availability. Historically, unit sales of motor vehicles, particularly new vehicles, have been cyclical, fluctuating with general economic cycles. During economic downturns, retail new vehicle sales typically experience periods of decline characterized by oversupply and weak demand. The recent tightening of the credit markets and the general economic slowdown, volatility in consumer preference around fuel-efficient vehicles, in conjunction with volatile fuel prices, concern about domestic manufacturer viability and tightening credit standards has resulted in a difficult business environment and the automotive retail industry is experiencing a significant decline in vehicle sales. This 17 Table of Contents decline may continue and the time period that sales may stay depressed is unknown. These declines have had and any further declines or change of this type could have a further material adverse effect on our business, revenues, cash flows and profitability. Fuel prices have remained volatile and may continue to affect consumer preferences in connection with the purchase of our vehicles. Rising fuel prices may make consumers less likely to purchase larger, more expensive vehicles, such as sports utility vehicles or luxury automobiles and more likely to purchase smaller, less expensive and more fuel efficient vehicles. Further increases or sharp declines in fuel prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, cash flows and profitability. In addition, local economic, competitive and other conditions affect the performance of our dealerships. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability depend substantially on general economic conditions and spending habits in those regions of the United States where we maintain most of our operations. Our results of operations and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the conditions in the credit markets and the declining economic conditions in the United States. The recent turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in tighter credit conditions and has adversely impacted our business. In the automotive finance market, tight credit conditions have resulted in a decrease in the availability of automotive loans and leases and has led to more stringent lending restrictions. Additionally, the declining economic conditions in the United States have adversely impacted demand for new and used vehicles. As a result, our new and used vehicle sales and margins have been adversely impacted. If the unfavorable economic conditions continue and the availability of automotive loans and leases remains limited, we anticipate that our vehicle sales and margins will continue to be adversely impacted. A significant portion of vehicle buyers, particularly in the used car market, finance their vehicle purchases. Sub-prime finance companies have historically provided financing for consumers who, for a variety of reasons, including poor credit histories and lack of a down payment, do not have access to more traditional finance sources. Recent economic developments have caused most sub-prime finance companies to tighten their credit standards and this has adversely affected our used vehicle sales and margins. If sub-prime finance companies apply higher standards, if there is any further tightening of credit standards used by sub-prime finance companies, or if there is additional decline in the overall availability of credit in the sub-prime lending market, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our used car business, revenues, cash flows and profitability. Market conditions could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditure projects or acquisitions. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed and to the extent required or, if available, on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise necessary additional funds on acceptable terms, there could be an adverse impact on our business and operations. We also may not be able to fund expansion, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Governmental Regulation pertaining to fuel economy (CAFE) standards may affect the manufacturer’s ability to produce cost effective vehicles. The “Energy Policy Conservation Act”, enacted into law by Congress in 1975, added Title V, “Improving Automotive Efficiency”, to the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act and established Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for passenger cars and light trucks. CAFE is the sales weighted average fuel economy, expressed in miles per gallon (mpg) of a manufacturer’s fleet of passenger cars or light trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds or less, manufactured for sale in the United States, for any given model year. The Secretary of Transportation has delegated authority to establish CAFE standards to the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). NHTSA is responsible for establishing and amending the CAFE standards; promulgating regulations concerning CAFE procedures, definitions and reports; considering petitions for exemptions from standards for low volume manufacturers and establishing unique standards for them; enforcing fuel economy standards and regulations; responding to petitions concerning domestic production by foreign manufacturers and all other aspects of CAFE. 18 Table of Contents The primary goal of CAFE was to substantially increase passenger car fuel efficiency. Congress has continuously increased the standards since 1974, and, since mid-year 1990, the passenger car standard was increased to 27.5 miles per gallon, which it has remained at this level through 2007. The new law requires passenger car fuel economy to rise to an industry average of 35 miles per gallon by 2020. Likewise, light truck CAFE standards have been established over the years and significant changes were adopted in November 2006. As of mid-year 2007, the standard was increased to 22.2 miles per gallon and is expected to be increased to about 24 miles per gallon by 2011. The penalty for a manufacturer’s failure to meet the CAFE standards is currently $5.50 per tenth of a mile per gallon for each tenth under the target volume times the total volume of those vehicles manufactured for a given model year. Manufacturers can earn CAFE “credits” to offset deficiencies in their CAFE performances. These credits can be applied to any three consecutive model years immediately prior to or subsequent to the model year in which the credits are earned. Failure of a manufacturer to develop passenger vehicles and light trucks that meet CAFE standards could subject the manufacturer to substantial penalties, increase the costs of vehicles sold to us, and adversely affect our ability to market and sell vehicles to meet consumer needs and desires. Furthermore, Congress may continue to increase CAFE standards in the future and such additional legislation may have an adverse impact on the manufacturers and our business operations. If we fail to obtain a desirable mix of popular new vehicles from manufacturers our profitability can be affected. We depend on the manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of new vehicles. The most popular vehicles usually produce the highest profit margins and are frequently difficult to obtain from the manufacturers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular models, our profitability may be adversely affected. Sales of less desirable models may reduce our profit margins. Several manufacturers generally allocate their vehicles among their franchised dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership. If our dealerships experience prolonged sales slumps relative to our competitors, these manufacturers may cut back their allotments of popular vehicles to our dealerships and new vehicle sales and profits may decline. Similarly, the delivery of vehicles, particularly newer, more popular vehicles, from manufacturers at a time later than scheduled could lead to reduced sales during those periods. If we fail to obtain renewals of one or more of our franchise agreements on favorable terms or substantial franchises are terminated, our operations may be significantly impaired. Each of our dealerships operates under a franchise agreement with one of our manufacturers (or authorized distributors). Without a franchise agreement, we cannot obtain new vehicles from a manufacturer, access the manufacturers’ certified pre-owned programs, perform warranty-related services or purchase parts at manufacturer pricing. As a result, we are significantly dependent on our relationships with these manufacturers, which exercise a great degree of influence over our operations through the franchise agreements. Each of our franchise agreements may be terminated or not renewed by the manufacturer for a variety of reasons, including any unapproved changes of ownership or management and other material breaches of the franchise agreements. Manufacturers may also have a right of first refusal if we seek to sell dealerships. We cannot guarantee all of our franchise agreements will be renewed or that the terms of the renewals will be as favorable to us as our current agreements. In addition, actions taken by manufacturers to exploit their bargaining position in negotiating the terms of renewals of franchise agreements or otherwise could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our franchise rights become compromised or our operations restricted due to the terms of our franchise agreements or if we lose substantial franchises. Our franchise agreements do not give us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Subject to state laws that are generally designed to protect dealers, a manufacturer may grant another dealer a franchise to start a new dealership near one of our locations, or an existing dealership may move its dealership to a location that would more directly compete against us. The location of new dealerships near our 19 Table of Contents existing dealerships could materially adversely affect our operations and reduce the profitability of our existing dealerships. Our success depends upon the continued viability and overall success of a limited number of manufacturers. We are subject to a concentration of risk in the event of financial distress, merger, sale or bankruptcy, including potential liquidation, of a major vehicle manufacturer. Toyota/Lexus/Scion, Honda/Acura, Nissan/Infiniti, Ford, BMW, Chrysler and Mercedes-Benz dealerships represented approximately 91.9% of our total new vehicle retail units sold in 2008. In particular, sales of Toyota/Lexus and Honda/Acura new vehicles represented 49.1% of our new vehicle unit sales in 2008. The success of our dealerships is dependent on vehicle manufacturers in several key respects. First, we rely exclusively on the various vehicle manufacturers for our new vehicle inventory. Our ability to sell new vehicles is dependent on a vehicle manufacturer’s ability to produce and allocate to our stores an attractive, high-quality, and desirable product mix at the right time in order to satisfy customer demand. Second, manufacturers generally support their franchisees by providing direct financial assistance in various areas, including, among others, floorplan assistance and advertising assistance. Third, manufacturers provide product warranties and, in some cases, service contracts, to customers. Our stores perform warranty and service contract work for vehicles under manufacturer product warranties and service contracts, and direct bill the manufacturer as opposed to invoicing the customer. At any particular time, we have significant receivables from manufacturers for warranty and service work performed for customers, as well as for vehicle incentives. In addition, we rely on manufacturers to varying extents for original equipment manufactured replacement parts, training, product brochures and point of sale materials, and other items for our stores. Vehicle manufacturers may be adversely impacted by economic downturns or recessions, significant declines in the sales of their new vehicles, increases in interest rates, declines in their credit ratings, labor strikes or similar disruptions (including within their major suppliers), supply shortages or rising raw material costs, rising employee benefit costs, adverse publicity that may reduce consumer demand for their products (including due to bankruptcy), product defects, vehicle recall campaigns, litigation, poor product mix or unappealing vehicle design, governmental laws and regulations, or other adverse events. In 2008, vehicle manufacturers, in particular domestic manufacturers, were adversely impacted by the unfavorable economic conditions in the United States. In the event or threat of a bankruptcy by a vehicle manufacturer, among other things: (1) the manufacturer could attempt to terminate all or certain of our franchises, and we may not receive adequate compensation for them, (2) we may not be able to collect some or all of our significant receivables that are due from such manufacturer and we may be subject to preference claims relating to payments made by such manufacturer prior to bankruptcy, (3) we may not be able to obtain financing for our new vehicle inventory, or arrange financing for our customers for their vehicle purchases and leases, with such manufacturer’s captive finance subsidiary, which may cause us to finance our new vehicle inventory, and arrange financing for our customers, with alternate finance sources on less favorable terms, and (4) consumer demand for such manufacturer’s products could be materially adversely affected and could impact the value of our inventory. These events may result in a partial or complete write-down of our goodwill and/or intangible franchise rights with respect to any terminated franchises and cause us to incur impairment charges related to operating leases and/or receivables due from such manufacturers or to record allowances against the value of our new and used inventory. In addition, vehicle manufacturers may be adversely impacted by economic downturns or recessions, adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, significant declines in the sales of their new vehicles, increases in interest rates, declines in their credit ratings, reductions in access to capital or credit, labor strikes or similar disruptions (including within their major suppliers), supply shortages or rising raw material costs, rising employee benefit costs, adverse publicity that may reduce consumer demand for their products (including due to bankruptcy), product defects, vehicle recall campaigns, litigation, poor product mix or unappealing vehicle design, or other adverse events. These and other risks could materially adversely affect any manufacturer and impact its ability to profitably design, market, produce or distribute new vehicles, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, stockholders’ equity, cash flows and prospects. 20 Table of Contents Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions may limit our future growth. We must obtain the consent of the manufacturer prior to the acquisition of any of its dealership franchises. Delays in obtaining, or failing to obtain, manufacturer approvals for dealership acquisitions could adversely affect our acquisition program. Obtaining the consent of a manufacturer for the acquisition of a dealership could take a significant amount of time or might be rejected entirely. In determining whether to approve an acquisition, manufacturers may consider many factors, including the moral character and business experience of the dealership principals and the financial condition, ownership structure, customer satisfaction index scores and other performance measures of our dealerships. Our manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with automobile dealerships through systems generally known as the customer satisfaction index or CSI. Manufacturers may use these performance indicators, as well as sales performance numbers, as conditions for certain payments and as factors in evaluating applications for additional acquisitions. The manufacturers have modified the components of their CSI scores from time to time in the past, and they may replace them with different systems at any time. From time to time, we have not met all of the manufacturers’ requirements to make acquisitions. To date, there have been no acquisition opportunities that have been denied by any manufacturer. However, we cannot assure you that all of our proposed future acquisitions will be approved. In the event this was to occur, this could materially adversely affect our acquisition strategy. In addition, a manufacturer may limit the number of its dealerships that we may own or the number that we may own in a particular geographic area. If we reach a limitation imposed by a manufacturer for a particular geographic market, we will be unable to make additional acquisitions of that manufacturer’s franchises in that market, which could limit our ability to grow in that geographic area. In addition, geographic limitations imposed by manufacturers could restrict our ability to make geographic acquisitions involving markets that overlap with those we already serve. We may acquire only four primary Lexus dealerships or six outlets nationally, including only two Lexus dealerships in any one of the four Lexus geographic areas. We own three primary Lexus dealership franchises. Also, we own the maximum number of Toyota dealerships we are currently permitted to own in the Gulf States region, which is comprised of Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas, and in the Boston region, which is comprised of Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. Currently, Ford is emphasizing increased sales performance from all of its franchised dealers, including our Ford dealerships. As such, Ford has requested that we focus on the performance of owned dealerships as opposed to acquiring additional Ford dealerships. We intend to comply with this request. Restrictions in our agreements with manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to obtain certain types of financings. Provisions in our agreements with our manufacturers may, in the future, restrict our ability to obtain certain types of financing. A number of our manufacturers prohibit pledging the stock of their franchised dealerships. For example, our agreement with General Motors contains provisions prohibiting pledging the stock of our General Motors franchised dealerships. Our agreement with Ford permits us to pledge our Ford franchised dealerships’ stock and assets, but only for Ford dealership-related debt. Moreover, our Ford agreement permits our Ford franchised dealerships to guarantee, and to use Ford franchised dealership assets to secure, our debt, but only for Ford dealership-related debt. Ford waived that requirement with respect to our March 1999 and August 2003 senior subordinated notes offerings and the subsidiary guarantees of those notes. Certain of our manufacturers require us to meet certain financial ratios. Our failure to comply with these ratios gives the manufacturers the right to reject proposed acquisitions, and may give them the right to purchase their franchises for fair value. 21 Table of Contents Certain restrictions relating to our management and ownership of our common stock could deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and adversely affect our ability to engage in equity offerings. As a condition to granting their consent to our previous acquisitions and our initial public offering, some of our manufacturers have imposed other restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit, among other things: • any one person, who in the opinion of the manufacturer is unqualified to own its franchised dealership or has interests incompatible with the manufacturer, from acquiring more than a specified percentage of our common stock (ranging from 20% to 50% depending on the particular manufacturer’s restrictions) and this trigger level can fall to as low as 5% if another vehicle manufacturer is the entity acquiring the ownership interest or voting rights; • certain material changes in our business or extraordinary corporate transactions such as a merger or sale of a material amount of our assets; • the removal of a dealership general manager without the consent of the manufacturer; and • a change in control of our Board of Directors or a change in management. Our manufacturers may also impose additional similar restrictions on us in the future. Actions by our stockholders or prospective stockholders, which would violate any of the above restrictions are generally outside our control. If we are unable to comply with or renegotiate these restrictions, we may be forced to terminate or sell one or more franchises, which could have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. These restrictions also may impede our ability to acquire dealership groups, to raise required capital or to issue our stock as consideration for future acquisitions. If manufacturers discontinue or change sales incentives, warranties and other promotional programs, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We depend on our manufacturers for sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote dealership sales or support dealership profitability. Manufacturers historically have made many changes to their incentive programs during each year. Some of the key incentive programs include: • customer rebates; • dealer incentives on new vehicles; • below-market financing on new vehicles and special leasing terms; • warranties on new and used vehicles; and • sponsorship of used vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers. A discontinuation or change in our manufacturers’ incentive programs could adversely affect our business. Moreover, some manufacturers use a dealership’s CSI scores as a factor governing participation in incentive programs. Failure to comply with the CSI standards could adversely affect our participation in dealership incentive programs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Growth in our revenues and earnings will be impacted by our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate dealerships. Growth in our revenues and earnings depends substantially on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate dealerships. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify and acquire dealerships in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any acquisitions will be successful or on terms and conditions consistent with past acquisitions. Restrictions by our manufacturers, as well as covenants contained in our debt instruments, may directly or indirectly limit our ability to acquire additional dealerships. In addition, increased competition for acquisitions may develop, which could result in fewer acquisition opportunities available to us and/or higher acquisition prices. And, some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than us. 22 Table of Contents We will continue to need substantial capital in order to acquire additional automobile dealerships. In the past, we have financed these acquisitions with a combination of cash flow from operations, proceeds from borrowings under our credit facilities, bond issuances, stock offerings, and the issuance of our common stock to the sellers of the acquired dealerships. We currently intend to finance future acquisitions by using cash and, in rare situations, issuing shares of our common stock as partial consideration for acquired dealerships. The use of common stock as consideration for acquisitions will depend on three factors: (1) the market value of our common stock at the time of the acquisition, (2) the willingness of potential acquisition candidates to accept common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, and (3) our determination of what is in our best interests. If potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept our common stock, we will rely solely on available cash or proceeds from debt or equity financings, which could adversely affect our acquisition program. Accordingly, our ability to make acquisitions could be adversely affected if the price of our common stock is depressed or if our access to capital is limited. In addition, managing and integrating additional dealerships into our existing mix of dealerships may result in substantial costs, diversion of our management’s attention, delays, or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including, among other things: • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; • entering new markets with which we are not familiar; • incurring undiscovered liabilities at acquired dealerships, in the case of stock acquisitions; • disrupting our ongoing business; • failing to retain key personnel of the acquired dealerships; • impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers; and • incorrectly valuing acquired entities. Some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating condition of the businesses we purchase in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their franchise agreements. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a franchise agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or nonrenewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or nonrenewal. Though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealers to renew their franchise agreements upon expiration. In addition, these state dealer laws restrict the ability of automobile manufacturers to directly enter the retail market in the future. If manufacturers obtain the ability to directly retail vehicles and do so in our markets, such competition could have a material adverse effect on us. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected because we rely on the industry knowledge and relationships of our key personnel. We believe our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, senior management and key employees, including our regional vice presidents. Additionally, our business is 23 Table of Contents dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, including the management of acquired dealerships. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. We do not have employment agreements with most of our dealership general managers and other key dealership personnel. The unexpected or unanticipated loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us and materially impair the efficiency and productivity of our operations. We do not have key man insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. In addition, the loss of any of our key employees or the failure to attract qualified managers could have a material adverse effect on our business and may materially impact the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with our national standards. The impairment of our goodwill, our indefinite-lived intangibles and our other long-lived assets has had, and may have in the future, a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), we assess goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Based on the organization and management of our business, we determined that each region qualified as reporting units for the purpose of assessing goodwill for impairment. To determine the fair value of our reporting units in assessing the carrying value of our goodwill for impairment, we use a combination of the discounted cash flow and market approaches. Included in this analysis are assumptions regarding revenue growth rates, future gross margin estimates, future selling, general and administrative expense rates and our weighted average cost of capital. We also must estimate residual values at the end of the forecast period and future capital expenditure requirements. Each of these assumptions requires us to use our knowledge of (a) our industry, (b) our recent transactions, and (c) reasonable performance expectations for our operations. If any one of the above assumptions changes, in some cases insignificantly, or fails to materialize, the resulting decline in our estimated fair value could result in a material impairment charge to the goodwill associated with the applicable reporting unit, especially with respect to those operations acquired prior to July 1, 2001. We are required to evaluate the carrying value of our indefinite-lived, intangible franchise rights at a dealership level. To test the carrying value of each individual intangible franchise right for impairment, we also use a discounted cash flow based approach. Included in this analysis are assumptions, at a dealership level, regarding revenue growth rates, future gross margin estimates and future selling, general and administrative expense rates. Using our weighted average cost of capital, estimated residual values at the end of the forecast period and future capital expenditure requirements, we calculate the fair value of each dealership’s franchise rights after considering estimated values for tangible assets, working capital and workforce. If any one of the above assumptions changes, in some cases insignificantly, or fails to materialize, the resulting decline in our estimated fair value could result in a material impairment charge to the intangible franchise right associated with the applicable dealership. We assess the carrying value of our other long-lived assets, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”), when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our profitability. All of the borrowings under our various credit facilities bear interest based on a floating rate. Therefore, our interest expense would rise with any increase in interest rates. We have entered into derivative transactions to convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rates to partially mitigate this risk. A rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used vehicle sales, because many of our customers finance their vehicle purchases. As a result, a rise in interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues. In addition, we receive credit assistance from certain automobile manufacturers, which is reflected as a reduction in cost of sales on our 24 Table of Contents statements of operations. Please see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a discussion regarding our interest rate sensitivity. Our U.K. operations are subject to risks associated with foreign currency and exchange rate fluctuations. In 2007, we expanded our operations into the U.K. As such, we are exposed to additional risks related to such foreign operations, including: • currency and exchange rate fluctuations; • foreign government regulative and potential changes; • lack of franchise protection creating greater competition; and • tariffs, trade restrictions, prohibition on transfer of funds, and international tax laws and treaties. Our consolidated financial statements reflect that our results of operations and financial position are reported in local currency and are converted into U.S. dollars at the applicable currency rate. Fluctuations in such currency rates may have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position as reported in U.S. dollars. Our insurance does not fully cover all of our operational risks, and changes in the cost of insurance or the availability of insurance could materially increase our insurance costs or result in a decrease in our insurance coverage. The operation of automobile dealerships is subject to compliance with a wide range of laws and regulations and is subject to a broad variety of risks. While we have insurance on our real property, comprehensive coverage for our vehicle inventory, general liability insurance, workers’ compensation insurance, employee dishonesty coverage, employment practices liability insurance, pollution coverage and errors and omissions insurance in connection with vehicle sales and financing activities, we are self-insured for a portion of our potential liabilities. We purchase insurance policies for worker’s compensation, liability, auto physical damage, property, pollution, employee medical benefits and other risks consisting of large deductibles and/or self-insured retentions. In certain instances, our insurance may not fully cover an insured loss depending on the magnitude and nature of the claim. Additionally, changes in the cost of insurance or the availability of insurance in the future could substantially increase our costs to maintain our current level of coverage or could cause us to reduce our insurance coverage and increase the portion of our risks that we self-insure. Substantial competition in automotive sales and services may adversely affect our profitability due to our need to lower prices to sustain sales and profitability. The automotive retail industry is highly competitive. Depending on the geographic market, we compete with: • franchised automotive dealerships in our markets that sell the same or similar makes of new and used vehicles that we offer, occasionally at lower prices than we do; • other national or regional affiliated groups of franchised dealerships and/or of used vehicle dealerships; • private market buyers and sellers of used vehicles; • Internet-based vehicle brokers that sell vehicles obtained from franchised dealers directly to consumers; • service center chain stores; and • independent service and repair shops. We also compete with regional and national vehicle rental companies that sell their used rental vehicles. In addition, automobile manufacturers may directly enter the retail market in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on us. As we seek to acquire dealerships in new markets, we may face significant competition as we strive to gain market share. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and personnel resources and lower overhead and sales costs than we have. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from vehicle manufacturers and typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and 25 Table of Contents dealership location in order to sell new vehicles. Our franchise agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Our revenues and profitability may be materially and adversely affected if competing dealerships expand their market share or are awarded additional franchises by manufacturers that supply our dealerships. In addition to competition for vehicle sales, our dealerships compete with franchised dealerships to perform warranty repairs and with other automotive dealers, franchised and independent service center chains and independent garages for non-warranty repair and routine maintenance business. Our dealerships compete with other automotive dealers, service stores and auto parts retailers in their parts operations. We believe the principal competitive factors in the parts and service business are the quality of customer service, the use of factory-approved replacement parts, familiarity with a manufacturer’s brands and models, convenience, access to technology required for certain repairs and services, location, price, the competence of technicians and the availability of training programs to enhance such expertise. A number of regional or national chains offer selected parts and services at prices that may be lower than our dealerships’ prices. We also compete with a broad range of financial institutions in arranging financing for our customers’ vehicle purchases. Some automobile manufacturers have in the past acquired, and may in the future attempt to acquire, automotive dealerships in certain states. Our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected by the efforts of manufacturers to enter the retail arena. In addition, the Internet is becoming a significant part of the advertising and sales process in our industry. We believe that customers are using the Internet as part of the sales process to compare pricing for cars and related finance and insurance services, which may reduce gross profit margins for new and used cars and profits for related finance and insurance services. Some Web sites offer vehicles for sale over the Internet without the benefit of having a dealership franchise, although they must currently source their vehicles from a franchised dealer. If Internet new vehicle sales are allowed to be conducted without the involvement of franchised dealers, or if dealerships are able to effectively use the Internet to sell outside of their markets, our business could be materially adversely affected. We would also be materially adversely affected to the extent that Internet companies acquire dealerships or align themselves with our competitors’ dealerships. Please see “Business — Competition” for more discussion of competition in our industry. We are subject to substantial regulation which may adversely affect our profitability and significantly increase our costs in the future. A number of state and federal laws and regulations affect our business. We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to business corporations generally. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting our operations. In every state in which we operate, we must obtain various licenses in order to operate our businesses, including dealer, sales, finance and insurance-related licenses issued by state authorities. These laws also regulate our conduct of business, including our advertising, operating, financing, employment and sales practices. Other laws and regulations include state franchise laws and regulations and other extensive laws and regulations applicable to new and used motor vehicle dealers, as well as federal and state wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws. Furthermore, some states have initiated consumer “bill of rights” statutes which involve increases in our costs associated with the sale of vehicles, or decreases in some of our profit centers. Our financing activities with customers are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing and equal credit opportunity laws and regulations, as well as state and local motor vehicle finance laws, installment finance laws, insurance laws, usury laws and other installment sales laws and regulations. Some states regulate finance fees and charges that may be paid as a result of vehicle sales. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us or our dealerships by individuals or governmental entities and may expose us to significant damages or other penalties, including revocation or suspension of our licenses to conduct dealership operations and fines. 26 Table of Contents Our operations are also subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, the Magnusson-Moss Warranty Act, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the United States Department of Transportation and various state motor vehicle regulatory agencies. The imported automobiles we purchase are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business, we may, from time to time, be subject to claims for duties, penalties, liquidated damages, or other charges. Our operations are subject to consumer protection laws known as Lemon Laws. These laws typically require a manufacturer or dealer to replace a new vehicle or accept it for a full refund within one year after initial purchase if the vehicle does not conform to the manufacturer’s express warranties and the dealer or manufacturer, after a reasonable number of attempts, is unable to correct or repair the defect. Federal laws require various written disclosures to be provided on new vehicles, including mileage and pricing information. Possible penalties for violation of any of these laws or regulations include revocation or suspension of our licenses and civil or criminal fines and penalties. In addition, many laws may give customers a private cause of action. Violation of these laws, the cost of compliance with these laws, or changes in these laws could result in adverse financial consequences to us. Our automotive dealerships are subject to stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that may result in claims and liabilities, which could be material. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, spills or releases onto soils and into ground water, the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks, and the investigation and remediation of contamination. As with automotive dealerships generally, and service, parts and body shop operations in particular, our business involves the use, storage, handling and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous substances or wastes and other environmentally sensitive materials. These environmental laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our storage tanks and other equipment that we operate, and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, also known as the “EPA,” and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Similar to many of our competitors, we have incurred and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such laws and regulations. There is risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the operation of our automotive dealerships due to our handling of petroleum products and other materials characterized as hazardous substances or hazardous wastes, the threat of spills and releases arising in the course of operations, especially from storage tanks, and the threat of contamination arising from historical operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may have been performed by third parties not under our control. In addition, in connection with our acquisitions, it is possible that we will assume or become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities, some of which may be material. In connection with our dispositions, or prior dispositions made by companies we acquire, we may retain exposure for environmental costs and liabilities, some of which may be material. Moreover, the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment and, as a result, we may be required to make material additional expenditures to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, or as a result of the future discovery of environmental conditions not in compliance with then applicable law. Please see “Business — Governmental Regulations — Environmental, Health and Safety Laws and Regulations” for more discussion of the effect of such laws and regulations on us. 27 Table of Contents Our indebtedness and lease obligations could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures, and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. Our indebtedness and lease obligations could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our current cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations and other purposes; • some of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increasing interest rates; and • we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage and make us more vulnerable to changing market conditions and regulations. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In particular, availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly, while the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to current debt, and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Our inability to meet a financial covenant contained in our debt agreements may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. Our debt instruments contain numerous covenants that limit our discretion with respect to business matters, including mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing our common stock, incurring additional debt or disposing of assets. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement or indenture. In addition, a default under one agreement or indenture could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under the other agreements or indentures under the cross default provisions in those agreements or indentures. If a default or cross default were to occur, we may be required to renegotiate the terms of our indebtedness, which could be on less favorable terms than our current terms and would likely cause us to incur additional fees to process. Alternatively, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. As a result of this risk, we could be forced to take actions that we otherwise would not take, or not take actions that we otherwise might take, in order to comply with the covenants in these agreements and indentures. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and franchise agreements contain provisions that make a takeover of us difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These include provisions: • providing for a board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, permitting the removal of a director from office only for cause; • allowing only the Board of Directors to set the number of directors; • requiring super-majority or class voting to affect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limiting the persons who may call special stockholders’ meetings; 28 Table of Contents • limiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings; and • allowing our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Certain of our franchise agreements prohibit the acquisition of more than a specified percentage of our common stock without the consent of the relevant manufacturer. These terms of our franchise agreements could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. We can issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could materially adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue “blank check” preferred stock, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences, and rights of which may be fixed or altered from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the common stock holders or the market value of the common stock. Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business. Our stores are concentrated in states and regions in the United States in which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes and hail storms) have in past and may in the future disrupt our store operations, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to business interruption, the automotive retailing business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property at dealership locations. Although we have, subject to certain limitations and exclusions, substantial insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 