D. Risk Factors The following risk factors, together with the other information and ILOG’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating ILOG and its business before making an investment decision with respect to ILOG’s Shares or ADSs. Certain risk factors that affect the software industry generally and technology companies specifically also apply to ILOG. Such factors include: • increased competition for our products and services, including aggressive pricing strategies by competitors, • deferred purchases due to reduced capital investment, • a change in technology market conditions which are typified by rapid and unpredictable developments, • the effectiveness of our marketing and sales activities, • business disruptions due to fires, earthquakes (our offices in France and in western California are located in potential earthquake and/or flood zones), • theft of our intellectual property or confidential information, and • our acquisition and minority investment strategy. Any one or more of these circumstances could have an adverse impact on our business, operating revenues, financial results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 20-F will not result in problems that materially affect the financial aspects of our business and the price of our Shares and ADSs. In addition, there may be other risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial that may adversely affect our Company. 1. Risks concerning our ability to achieve financial results Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly as has the price of our Shares and ADSs and they may continue to do so in the future. Factors causing such fluctuations include: • varying demand for our products and services, • the size, timing and structure of significant licenses sales and/or royalty payments by customers, • cost overruns on fixed price consulting contracts and fluctuations in the profitability and losses associated with consulting contracts, • the growing complexity of our customers’ decision making processes, • the size of our consulting services staff, which may or may not track customer demand for our services, • our periodic reliance on third party consultants to meet temporary increases in demand for our services, which results in lower service margins, • seasonality, particularly since a significant proportion of our sales come from Europe where we generally realize lower revenues in the quarter ending September 30th than in the immediately preceding quarter due primarily to reduced economic activity in the summer months, • general economic conditions and customer spending on software and information technology products, • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, • analyst expectations and analyst reports and recommendations, • stock market performance, particularly in the high-tech sector, 8 | Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG Back To Contents • the timing of product announcements, and • a change in the competitive landscape due to a competitor’s increased market share or introduction of a well regarded product. Revenues from license fees and/or royalties in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter and on sales by the Company’s independent software vendors, or ISVs (“Independent Software Vendors”), distributors and resellers. Our expense levels are relatively fixed. Consequently, if revenue levels decline or are below expectations in any quarter, expense levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of total revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and could result in losses in that quarter. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be unduly relied upon to predict future performance. In addition, if our operating results are below the expectations of investors and/or analysts, the price of our Shares and ADSs may fall. We generate all our revenues from three product lines. Any factor adversely affecting any of these product families could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. ILOG’s business rules, optimization and visualization product lines accounted for approximately 42%, 38% and 20% of our license and maintenance revenues in the 2006 fiscal year. We expect that revenues from each of these product lines will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total license and maintenance revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, any factor adversely affecting one or more of these product lines could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, substantially all of our consulting revenue is derived from the implementation and maintenance of software licensed to new customers and the development of applications by our customers using our software. As a result, a decline in the demand for our software would result in a decline in the demand for our consulting services. We have attempted to increase our consulting services revenue, which required us to hire more consultants and increased our overhead that may not be offset by actual consulting service revenues, particularly during slow periods, which are unpredictable. In addition, our consulting services engagements are complex and require specific technical skills that we may or may not be able to provide due to competing engagements, which could result in lost revenues and lower than expected margins. In the 2005 and 2006 fiscal years, we significantly increased our consulting services activity. As a result, the demand for our services temporarily exceeded our internal capacity to staff the engagements under contract, necessitating the hiring of additional third party consultants to fulfill the consulting engagements. Third party contractors are more expensive than our staff consultants, and therefore the margins for the consulting services work decreased for those engagements where we were required to use outside contractors. The number of consulting engagements that we have at any given moment in time fluctuates and is unpredictable. As a result, we cannot be assured that we will have sufficient work to keep our consultants engaged on fee-based projects on a full time basis, thereby potentially increasing our overhead without any corresponding increase in revenues, which could adversely impact our operating results and income. In addition, our consulting services require highly technical and specific skills. We have been constrained in the past, and we may be constrained in the future, in our ability to provide consulting services when consultants with the skills required for a particular engagement are occupied on other engagements, which could result in lost revenues. In addition, due to the complex nature of our consulting services, the actual margins we earn on consulting services could be below the expectations at the outset of the engagement, which could have a negative impact on our net income and Share price. We have invested in certain vertical markets by developing industry specific products which may or may not yield any increase in profits, particularly due to the high cost of implementation which we provide at reduced costs as an inducement to the sale of these products. In fiscal year 2006, we continued our work to develop several new optimization products targeted to specific industries. Investments in new products and services are inherently speculative. The revenues we have received from these emerging products have not to date and may not in the future cover the associated development costs, which are still ongoing. Commercial success depends on many factors, including our ability to execute our sales strategy with respect to these products, the commercial acceptance of these products by customers and the general economic conditions in these industries, particularly Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG | 9 Back To Contents the semiconductor chip manufacturing, transportation and process manufacturing industries. Our current strategy involves absorbing some of the implementation costs as an inducement to the sale of these products. We cannot be assured that these products will become commercially viable, or will achieve profitability. The industry in which we operate is characterized by intense competition, consolidation and collaboration in our industry could further increase competition significantly and result in fewer customer orders, price reductions, reduced transaction size, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and we expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to increase. We compete with a number of private and public companies in our individual product lines, however, we do not believe we have any competitors across all three of our product lines. Our competitors include, without limitation, by product line: (i) Business Rule Management Systems: Computer Associates, Corticon Technologies, Fair Isaac, Haley, Microsoft, Pegasystems and Red Hat; (ii) Optimization: Cosytec and Dash Associates; (iii) Visualization: SL Corporation and Tom Sawyer. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition, broader product offerings and a larger installed base of customers than we do. In addition, some of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products and may be able to offer products cheaper than us. We also face increased competition from companies such as Red Hat, or software developer communities who provide software with some of the functionalities provided in our Rules product on an “open source” or free basis. In addition, we encounter some competition from “low cost” companies in India and other countries, and we compete with companies that provide packaged software with respect to specific applications. In addition, virtually all of our customers have significant investments in their existing solutions and have the resources necessary to enhance existing products and to develop future products. These customers have or may develop and incorporate competing technologies into their systems, thereby replacing our current or proposed components. This would eliminate their need for our services and components and limit future opportunities. We are, therefore, required to persuade development personnel within these customer organizations to outsource the development of their software and to provide products and solutions to these customers that cost-effectively compete with their internally developed products. Barriers to entry in our business are generally low and the software industry is currently undergoing consolidation as software companies seek to offer more extensive suites and broader arrays of software products, as well as integrated software and hardware solutions. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, we could face significantly increased competition. New or enhanced products introduced by existing or future competitors could increase the competition faced by our products. Furthermore, companies larger than us could enter the market through internal expansion or by strategically aligning themselves with one of our competitors and may be able to offer cheaper products than us. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future distributors, resellers, original equipment manufacturers or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to sell through these channels and reducing promotion of our products. The ongoing market consolidation and/or increased competition resulting from a combination of our competitors or a competitor’s successful collaboration with our sales partners could result in fewer customer orders, price reductions, reduced transaction size, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Item 4.B.— Competition”. The fact that our products require customization contributes to the extended length and variability of our sales cycle and we often experience a concentration of transactions in the final weeks of a quarter, which could result in substantial fluctuations in operating results and may prevent accurate forecasting of our financial results and cause our Share price to decline. Because of the horizontal or ‘generic’ nature of the functionality of our software components, additional development to fit the particular customer industry is required. Our vertical products also require customization to enable them to work with a 10 | Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG Back To Contents particular customer’s operational parameters and requirements. For our customers that are trying to automate very complex problems, the additional development/customization process can prove difficult and expensive, and therefore purchasing decisions are sometimes difficult to predict and capture accurately in our forecasts. Our sales cycle is generally three to six months or more and varies substantially from customer to customer and a large number of our software license agreements are consummated in the weeks immediately preceding a quarter end. Our customers are often cautious in making decisions to acquire our products because purchasing our products may involve shifts by the customer to a new software platform or a change in the customers’ operational procedures. Delays in completing sales and changes in the amount of expected customer orders can arise while customers complete their internal procedures to approve purchase expenditures and test and accept our products. In addition, we have been constrained in the past, and we may be constrained in the future, in our ability to provide consulting services due to a lack of resources, which may cause sales cycles to be lengthened or result in the loss of software license sales. The nature and long length of the sales cycle for our products may cause license revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. We also face difficulty predicting the amount of expected sales and the quarter in which sales to expected customers will occur due to the nature and length of the sales cycle for our products. In addition, the complexity of our consulting engagements can result in delayed deliverables or milestones, resulting in delayed receipt of revenues. We rely on forecasted revenues for planning and modelling our earnings guidance before actual sales are consummated. Forecasts, however, are only estimates and actual results may vary for a particular quarter or longer periods of time. Consequently, significant potential discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate earnings and profitability guidance, which could adversely affect our Share price. Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk. We have undertaken to perform more consulting services work on a contingent fixed price basis, which presents the risk that the work product may not be accepted when finally delivered and therefore we may not be paid for our time or the cost of the engagement may be more than we receive in revenues. Customer demand for fixed price and/or turnkey consulting engagements is increasing and we are accepting more consulting work on a fixed price basis. Typically, we perform the work for fixed price consulting services at our expense, and our payment for the work performed is contingent on the customer’s acceptance of the work product that we deliver at certain intervals, called milestones, or at the end of the engagement. If the customer does not accept all or part of the work product that we deliver, we may not receive some or all of the anticipated revenues to offset the costs incurred in performing the engagement, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues, net profit and financial condition. In addition, the risks associated with these engagements include the possibility that we could poorly manage the engagement and not conduct the work in the most cost effective manner. Further, because the fee that is charged for these engagements is determined at the outset, we could underestimate the amount of work that will be required and the engagement could actually result in a loss. Moreover, we could lose other more profitable opportunities because we are required to commit significant resources to fixed price consulting engagements which may turn out to be unprofitable. We are dependent upon certain major ISVs for a significant part of our revenues. In fiscal year 2006, 23% of our revenues were generated from ISVs which embedded our software components in their applications, which they in turn sell to their customers. In fiscal year 2006, our largest customer was SAP A.G., an ISV that provided 3% of our revenues, and our next nine largest customers, of which three were ISVs, accounted for a further 11% of our revenues. If any or all of the ISVs decided for any reason to replace our components with their own or a competitor’s technology, discontinued offering any of the applications embedding our components and/or experienced a business downturn, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. See “Item 5.A.— Revenues by Geography” and Note 15 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG | 11 Back To Contents 2. Risks that could adversely affect our business operations Our ability to acquire, develop and market new products and product enhancements needs to be timely and directed to changing market and technological requirements or our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Accordingly, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to improve our current technologies and to acquire, develop and market new products and product enhancements that address changing market and technological requirements on a timely basis. The development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Furthermore, investments in new technology are inherently speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, our ability to execute our sales strategy with respect to these products, the commercial acceptance of these products by customers and general economic conditions in the different countries in which we sell our products and in our customers’ industries. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in acquiring, developing and marketing new products or product enhancements, that we will not experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful acquisition, development, introduction or marketing of such products or enhancements or that any new products or product enhancements will adequately address market and technological requirements and achieve market acceptance. As is customary in the software industry, we have in the past experienced delays in the introduction of new products and features, and we may experience such delays in the future. As a result, revenue from new product and service investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and services may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to integrate acquired products, develop new products or enhancements to existing products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. If our consulting services activities fall below customer expectations, we could lose customers or be required to reimburse customers for licence and service fees paid to us. In fiscal year 2006, 22% of our revenues were directly provided by our consulting services which are designed to facilitate customer adoption of our products, and accelerate their deployment, so that further license and maintenance revenues can be generated for us. If our consulting services fail to meet or satisfy customer expectations, we could lose customers and we may be required to reimburse customers for license and service fees paid to us. Currency fluctuations could result in lower profitability for us in dollar terms and the reporting of exchange losses. We operate on a multinational basis and a significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our financial reporting currency for the financial statements included in this annual report. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which we conduct our business relative to the U.S. dollar have caused and will continue to cause dollar translated amounts to vary from one period to another. Approximately 34% of our sales revenues and 53% of our operating expenses in fiscal year 2006 were denominated in euros, with the remainder in U.S. dollars and, to a lesser extent, other currencies. An increase in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar will result in lower profitability in U.S. dollar terms assuming no change in revenue and cost structure. See “Item 5.A. —Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Also, currency exchange rate movements of foreign currency denominated receivables and payables recorded by the Company and each of its subsidiaries, including their respective inter-company accounts, result in the reporting of realized and unrealized exchange gains or losses in our income statement. Due to the number of currencies involved, the constantly changing currency exposures and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future operating results. In order to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into foreign exchange derivative financial instruments to protect against foreign currency rate improvements relative to the euro for anticipated cash flows from transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries. While we have a policy of hedging our short-term currency exposures associated with anticipated cash flows from transactions with subsidiaries denominated in currencies other than the euro, there can be no assurance that this policy will be successful and/or properly executed. See “Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements”. 12 | Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG Back To Contents Changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, France, and in certain other foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, by our ability to generate taxable income in foreign jurisdictions in order to utilize foreign tax losses, and by the valuation of our deferred tax assets. We regularly assess the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but there can be no assurance that our assessments will be deemed accurate by one or more of the taxing authorities to which we are subject in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Errors in our software products could result in warranty or product liability claims against us. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Software products frequently contain undetected errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite our preliminary testing and use by current and potential customers, errors may not be detected in our products and product upgrades which may require us to refund license and maintenance fees paid or to pay damages. Persistent or pervasive problems with undetected errors or failures could negatively affect our reputation in the industry. Our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability and other claims due to unforeseen or undetected errors. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements, especially unsigned “shrink-wrap” licenses, may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. A product liability claim, whether or not successful, could be time-consuming and costly and thus could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial position. In addition, we sometimes grant our customers longer than normal warranty periods or provide additional non-standard warranties. We currently have limited insurance against product liability risks or errors and omissions coverage, and there can be no assurance that the current levels of insurance coverage we do have are adequate or that additional insurance would be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of services of any of our key personnel could have a materially adverse impact on our business. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, including, Pierre Haren, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, known in France as the “Président Directeur Général”. We are also particularly dependent upon our technical personnel with expertise in object oriented technology, math programming and artificial intelligence technology. Our future success will depend on our ability to train, motivate and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Competition for such personnel is intense, especially for technical personnel of the quality of our software architects and scientists. If we were to lose the services of our key technical, sales or senior management personnel or were unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel in the future our business could be adversely impacted in a material manner. As a result of our global operations, we are exposed to numerous risks, including logistical difficulties, cultural differences, product localization costs, import and tariff restrictions, adverse foreign tax consequences and fluctuations in currencies. Our engineering and research and development operations are located primarily in France, except for our CPLEX products which are developed in Incline Village, Nevada, and Mountain View, California. We have also recently opened an office in Shanghai, China which we expect will perform a limited amount of research and development work on our existing products. Our sales and marketing operations are located on four continents, including a new sales office in Australia. These varied locations and the inter-related activities of these groups have in the past led, and in the future could lead to, logistical and communication difficulties. Further, our global operations may be directly affected by adverse economic, health and geopolitical conditions in the countries where we do business. Approximately 50%, 40% and 10% of our revenues in fiscal year 2006 were from North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, respectively. Worldwide operations are subject to a number of risks, including: Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG | 13 Back To Contents • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations, • fluctuations in foreign exchange currency rates, • potentially adverse tax consequences, • the costs of localizing products for different countries, • longer accounts receivable collection periods in certain geographic regions, especially Europe, and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections, • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, • dependence on different independent resellers, • dependence on different technology standards, • import and export restrictions and tariffs, • difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights, • political instability, • disease and related quarantines, • more stringent labor laws, boycotts and/or strikes, • the burdens of complying with multiple, potentially conflicting laws, • the impact of localized business cycles, and • regional economic conditions, cyclicality and instability. 3. Risks associated with our proprietary technology Intellectual property infringement disputes could cause us significant expense and divert technical and management personnel. There can be no assurance that we will not receive communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe, or may infringe, on their proprietary rights. We cannot prevent third parties from claiming intellectual property infringement against us. We have been subject to such claims in the past. For instance, in fiscal year 2002 we successfully defended an intellectual property infringement claim by a third party relating to JRules, which defense consumed significant expense and diverted technical and management personnel. In fiscal year 2003, a third party asserted that a feature of our ILOG Solver product infringed their patent. We vigorously contested this assertion as being without merit and while we did not change our position in this regard, we reached an agreement to amicably resolve the matter in a manner that had no material financial impact for the Company. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation to determine the validity of any claims could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, whether or not such litigation was determined in our favor. As the number of software products in the industry increases outside of Europe and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we believe that software companies may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any such claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims we initiate against third parties, could be time consuming and expensive to defend or prosecute and difficult to resolve, and could result in product shipment delays. In the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, we might be required to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. There can be no assurance that licenses to such technology would be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 14 | Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG Back To Contents We depend heavily on our proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not develop similar technologies that directly compete with our proprietary technology or that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. We also license our products primarily in object code form, which does not allow our customers access to our source code. Source code is the form in which our proprietary technology is most vulnerable to theft, copying or misappropriation. See “Item 4.B. — Proprietary Rights”. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, other companies could seek to design around our proprietary technology and unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, use or make copies of our products or aspects thereof, or obtain or use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. In addition, the laws of many jurisdictions do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of France and the U.S. In particular, “shrink-wrap” licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and copyright and trade secret protection for software may be unavailable in certain countries. Under current EU intellectual property laws, software does not benefit from patent protection. Consequently, we rely primarily on the copyright laws of the US and France to protect our proprietary rights. We currently have one pending patent application in Japan, jointly filed with Mitsubishi Chemical Kabushiki Kaisha, which has been assigned application number P2003-46543, one pending provisional patent application in the U.S. entitled Method and System for Identifying Conflicting Constraints in Mixed Integer Programs, which has been assigned patent number 60/810,419, and one U.S. patent entitled Interactive Generation of Graphical Visualizations of Large Data Structures, and identified as Patent No. US 6,928,436 B2. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued with respect to our pending or any future patent applications. Furthermore, these and any other patents we obtain in the future may be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or designed around by other companies. The objective impossibility to adequately protect our intellectual property for these or other reasons could adversely affect our business and competitive position, operating results and financial condition. 4. Risks relating to business combinations and investments Acquisitions and minority investments may result in additional liabilities or risks for the Company or the dilution of Share interests or earnings per Share. Our business strategy includes, among other things, seeking to acquire or make minority investments in companies with complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. Such acquisitions and investments could potentially result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and write-offs related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. Were we to pursue one or more acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate such transactions, achieve the expected rates of return, integrate the acquired assets and business or the acquired companies’ employees successfully into our working environment, and/or retain either our or the acquired companies’ key employees. Similarly, investments in minority interests may not achieve our expected rates of return and are subject to additional risks, including a lack of control or ability to implement our preferred strategies at such companies whose strategies and interests may differ from ours. Such acquisitions and minority investments could also create product liability issues, and could result in a significant diversion of management attention away from the day to day operations of the Company. In addition, acquisitions and minority investments can result in a dilution of the position of our existing shareholders and our earnings per Share if we used Shares to make acquisitions or investments, as well as result in unanticipated legal risks and costs, and liabilities. Limitations imposed by French law and our by-laws may prevent or delay an acquisition by ILOG using its Shares. As a French company listed on the Euronext Paris stock market, we are subject to certain requirements not generally applicable to corporations organized in the U.S. For example, our shareholders are subject to voting procedures that are more complicated than for U.S. companies generally. Shareholder approval at an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting must be obtained for any new Shares issued in connection with a business combination, even if we are the surviving entity, or for an acquisition of assets in exchange for our shares. For the coming fiscal year, at such a meeting, the presence, in person or by proxy of shareholders holding one-fourth of the voting Shares upon first notice, and one-fifth of the voting Shares upon second notice, is required for a quorum. The increasing practice of U.S. shareholders not to exercise their voting rights may prevent us from obtaining a quorum for such a meeting and thus impair our ability to obtain shareholder approval for acquisitions, mergers and/or corporate reorganizations. Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG | 15 Back To Contents 5. Other risks of owning ILOG Shares and ADSs Changes in accounting principles may affect our reported earnings and operating income. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as revenue recognition for software and treatment of goodwill, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules, their interpretation, or changes in our products or business could significantly change our reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. See “Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements”. Holders of ADSs may be subject to additional risks related to holding ADSs rather than Shares. Because holders of ADSs do not hold their Shares directly, they are subject to the following additional risks: • fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euros into U.S. dollars may affect the value of ADSs. Specifically, if the relative value of the euro against the U.S. dollar declines, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the euro trading prices of Shares on Euronext and the trading price of ADSs in the United States; the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of ADSs would receive upon the sale in France of any Shares withdrawn from the Depositary and the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in euros on the Shares represented by ADSs would also decline, • in the event of a dividend or other distribution, if exchange rates fluctuate during any period of time when the Depositary cannot convert a foreign currency into U.S. dollars, the ADS holder may lose some or all of the value of the distribution. There can be no assurance that the Depositary will be able to convert any currency at a specified exchange rate or sell any property, rights, shares or other securities at a specified price, or that any of such transactions can be completed within a specified time period, • in order to vote at general shareholders’ meetings, ADS holders who are not registered on the books of the Depositary are required to transfer their ADSs a certain number of days before a general shareholders’ meeting into a blocked account established for that purpose by the Depositary. Any ADS transferred to this blocked account will not be available for transfer during that time. ADS holders who are registered on the books of the Depositary must give instructions to the Depositary not to transfer their ADSs during this period before the general shareholders’ meeting. ADS holders must therefore receive voting materials from the Depositary sufficiently in advance in order to make these transfers or give these instructions. There can be no guarantee that ADS holders will receive voting materials in time to instruct the Depositary to vote. It is possible that ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote at all, • ADS holders may not receive copies of all reports from the Depositary or us. They may have to go to the Depositary’s offices to inspect any reports issued. • The Depositary and we may amend or terminate the Deposit Agreement without ADS holders’ consent in a manner that could prejudice ADS holders. Limitations imposed by French law and our statuts, or by-laws, could prevent an acquisition of us. French law requires any person, acting alone or in concert, who acquires more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, one-third, one-half, two-thirds, 90% or 95% of our outstanding shares or voting rights, or whose shares or voting rights fall below any of these percentages, to inform us within 5 days of crossing the threshold percentage. A person acquiring, alone or in concert, more than 10% or 20% of our share capital or voting rights must include in the report a statement of the person’s intentions relating to future acquisitions or participation in the management of our company for the following 12-month period. Shareholders who fail to comply with these requirements may be deprived of voting rights for a period of up to five years and may, in some cases, be subject to fines. Under the regulations of the AMF, and subject to limited exemptions granted by the AMF, any person, acting alone or in concert, who comes to own more than 33 1/3% of our share capital or voting rights, must initiate a public tender offer. In addition, French labor laws generally impose an obligation on an entity acquiring a business or product line to assume the role of employer for the employees affiliated with the business or product line being acquired. This may make it difficult for a non-French entity or an international entity with no presence in France to acquire our Company or one of our product lines. 16 | Form 20-F 2006 – ILOG Back To Contents It may not be possible for shareholders to effect service of legal process, enforce judgments of courts outside of France or bring actions based on securities laws of jurisdictions other than France against ILOG, its executive officers or directors. ILOG and a majority of its executive officers and directors are residents of France and other countries other than the United States. In addition, many of the assets of ILOG and such persons are located in whole or in substantial part outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process within the United States upon us or most of such persons, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, judgments of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be enforceable in French courts. As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgment against us or such persons in the United States may not be able to require us or such persons to pay the amount of the judgment. Item 