Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our securities are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk. Identified below are material risks known to the Company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS: Exploration Stage Mining Company with No History of Operation The Company is in its exploration stage, has very limited operating history, and is subject to all the risks inherent in a new business enterprise. For example, to date we have had no revenues and have relied upon equity financing to fund our operations. The likelihood of success of the Company must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complication, and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which the Company will operate, such as under-capitalization, personnel limitations, and limited revenue sources. Due to Our History of Operating Losses, We are Uncertain That We Will Be Able to Maintain Sufficient Cash to Accomplish Our Business Objectives During the fiscal years ended October 31, 2008 and 2007 we suffered net losses of $12,320,422 and $6,931,557, respectively. At October 31, 2008 there was stockholders’ equity of $7,439,719 and a working capital of $1,905,410. There is no assurance that we can generate net income, increase revenues or successfully explore and exploit our properties. Significant amounts of capital will be required to continue to explore and then develop the Sierra Mojada concessions. The only source of future funding presently available to us is through the sale of additional equity capital and borrowing funds or selling a portion of our interests in our assets. There is no assurance that any additional equity capital or borrowings required will be obtainable on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delays or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our projects. Equity financing, if available, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. See the “Plan of Operation” below for a description of management’s plans in regard to this issue. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unsuccessful in implementing these plans. Capital Requirements and Liquidity; Need for Subsequent Funding The Company will adjust its expenditures in consideration of its available resources and the tasks to be performed. Company management and our board of directors monitor our overall costs and expenses and, if necessary, adjust Company programs and planned expenditures in an attempt to ensure we have sufficient operating capital. We continue to evaluate our costs and planned expenditures for our on-going project at our Sierra Mojada mining concessions. Management has scaled back the Company’s exploration activities and reduced administrative costs to conserve capital while we try to secure additional sources of capital to fund our operations and continue exploration of the Sierra Mojada Project. The Company has scaled back its drilling activities from five drills operating at two shifts per day to three drills operating at one shift per day. In addition, the Company’s officers and independent directors have agreed to defer a significant portion of their cash compensation until sufficient capital has been raised to continue its operations. Effective February 1, 2009, the executive officers and corporate employees entered into salary deferral agreements for 25% to 50% of their compensation while independent directors have agreed to defer 100% of the cash portion of their director’s fees. However, without any additional funding, the Company may not be able to fund its operations through the end of its 2009 fiscal year. 6 Table of Contents Management is exploring various sources of additional capital including additional equity funding, joint venture participation, strategic partner and smelter and metal trading companies willing to fund projects for a commitment of product. The weak US and global economy combined with instability in global financial and capital markets have currently limited the availability of this funding. If the disruptions in the global financial and capital markets continue, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Equity financing, if available, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we are unable to fund future operations by way of financing, including public or private offerings of equity or debt securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s Report on our 2008 Financial Statements Questions our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern As a result of our recurring losses from operations and limited capital resources, our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of October 31, 2008 and for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2008 and 2007 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As stated above, management has scaled back the Company’s exploration activities and reduced administrative costs to conserve capital while we try to secure additional sources of capital. Without additional capital, we may not be able continue as a going concern. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the actions we plan to take to address these conditions will be successful. Furthermore, inclusion of a “going concern qualification” in the report of our independent accountants may have a negative impact on our ability to raise additional capital and may adversely impact our stock price. Disruptions in the Global Financial and Capital Markets May Impact Our Ability to Obtain Financing The global financial and capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption, including the failures of financial services companies and the related liquidity crisis. Although we expect to meet our near term liquidity needs with our working capital on hand, we will continue to need further funding to achieve our business objectives. In the past, the issuance of equity securities has been the major source of capital and liquidity for us. The extraordinary conditions in the global financial and capital markets have currently limited the availability of this funding. If the disruptions in the global financial and capital markets continue, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to fund future operations by way of financing, including public or private offerings of equity or debt securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. No Commercially Mineable Ore Body; Resources and Reserves No commercially mineable ore body has been delineated on the properties, nor have any reserves been identified. The Company is an exploration stage company and does not currently have any known reserves and cannot be expected to have reserves unless and until a feasibility study is completed for the Sierra Mojada concessions that show proven and probable reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company’s concessions will ever contain reserves and investors may lose their entire investment in the Company. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of mineral resources such as silver, zinc, lead, and copper, including many factors beyond our control, and no assurance can be given that the recovery of mineral resources will be realized. In general, estimates of recoverable mineral resources are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the resource estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and estimates of future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of resources are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable mineral resources, the classification of such resources based on risk of recovery, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. No estimates of commerciality or recoverable mineral resources can be made at this time, if ever. 7 Table of Contents Our Business Plan is Highly Speculative and its Success Depends on Mineral Development in the Sierra Mojada Concessions Our business plan is focused primarily on developing and operating a mine in the Company’s Sierra Mojada concessions and to identify reserves, as described herein. Exploitation of mineralization and determining whether the mineralization might be extracted profitably is highly speculative and it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The Sierra Mojada Project is subject to all of the risks inherent in mineral development (as described in more detail below), operation and revenue uncertainties, market sizes, profitability, market demand, and commodity price fluctuations. Further, the economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), production rates, capital and operating costs, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance of necessary permits and the ability to raise further capital to fund activities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks. Risks Inherent in the Mining Industry The Company is subject to all of the risks inherent in the mining industry including, without limitation, the following: • competition from a large number of companies, many of which are significantly larger than the Company, in the acquisition, exploration, and development of mining properties; • due to our limited financial resources the Company, the concession holder, might not be able raise enough money to pay the fees, taxes and perform labor necessary to maintain the concessions in good force; • exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves substantial risks, even when conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineralization, our exploration projects may not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore; • the probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves that meet the requirements of Securities Act Industry Guide 7 is extremely remote, and our the properties may not contain any reserves, and any funds spent on exploration will probably be lost; • our operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls and the Company may not be able to comply with these regulations and controls; • a large number of factors beyond the control of the Company, including fluctuations in metal prices, inflation, and other economic conditions, will affect the economic feasibility of mining. THE BUSINESS OF MINERAL EXPLORATION IS SUBJECT TO MANY RISKS: Fluctuating Price for Metals The Company’s operations will be greatly influenced by the prices of commodities, including silver, zinc, lead, copper, and other metals. These prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including interest rates, expectations for inflation, speculation, currency values, in particular the strength of the United States dollar, global and regional demand, political and economic conditions and production costs in major metal producing regions of the world. 8 Table of Contents Mining Concessions The Company holds mining concessions in Mexico. The Company holds title to the concessions that it owns subject to its obligation to maintain the concessions by conducting work on the concessions, recording evidence of the work with the Mexican Ministry of Mines and paying a semi-annual fee to the Mexican government. Ownership of the concessions provides the Company with exclusive exploration and exploitation rights of all minerals located on the concessions but does not include the surface rights to the real property. Therefore, the Company will need to negotiate the necessary agreements, as needed, with the appropriate surface landowners if the Company determines that a mining operation is feasible for the concessions. The Company currently anticipates that it will build mining infrastructure needed on land in part owned by the Company and in part owned by the local municipality. The municipality officials indicate that they are willing to negotiate the necessary agreements, but there can be no assurance that an agreement that is satisfactory to the Company will be reached. Title to Our Mineral Properties May be Challenged Our policy is to seek to confirm the validity of our rights to title to, or contract rights with respect to, each mineral property in which we have a material interest. However, we cannot guarantee that title to our properties will not be challenged. Title insurance generally is not available, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, we may be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. We annually check the official land records in Mexico City to determine if there are annotations indicating the existence of a legal challenge against the validity of any of our concessions. As of October 2008, there were no such annotations, nor are we aware of any challenges from the government or from third parties. Our Exploration Activities are in Mexico, which is Subject to Political and Economic Instability We currently conduct exploration activities in Mexico. Although the country is considered economically stable, it has from time to time experienced economic or political instability. Our activities would likely be materially adversely affected by risks including those listed below, that are more prevalent for companies such as Metalline whose exploration activities are in this country. • political instability and violence; • war and civil disturbance; • expropriation or nationalization; • changing fiscal regimes; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • high rates of inflation; • underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure; and • unenforceability of contractual rights. 9 Table of Contents Changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in the prevailing political climate in Mexico would likely adversely affect our business. Our operations would likely be affected in varying degrees by Mexican government regulations with respect to, among other things: • production restrictions; • price controls; • export and import controls; • income and other taxes; • maintenance of claims; • environmental legislation; • foreign ownership restrictions; • labor; • land use; • land claims of local residents; • water use; and • mine safety. We cannot accurately predict the effect of these factors. In addition, legislation in the United States regulating foreign trade, investment and taxation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In management’s judgment, these risks are very much less than the equivalent risks would be for a project of a similar nature conducted in the United States. Environmental Controls Compliance with statutory environmental quality requirements may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect the earning power of the Company, or may cause material changes in the Company’s intended activities. Our operation of the Sierra Mojada Project requires compliance with state and federal regulations. No assurance can be given that environmental standards imposed by either federal or state governments will not be changed or become more stringent, thereby possibly materially adversely affecting the proposed activities of the Company. In addition, if we are unable to fund fully the cost of remediation of any environmental condition, we may be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remediation. Availability of Water Water is essential in all phases of the exploration and development of mineral properties. It is used in such processes as exploration, drilling, leaching, placer mining, dredging, testing, and hydraulic mining. Mining and ore processing requires large volumes of water. Both the lack of available water and the cost of acquisition may make an otherwise viable project economically impossible to complete. Although work completed thus far indicates that an adequate supply of water can probably be developed in the area for an underground mining operation, the Company will need to complete an additional water exploration program to determine if there is sufficient water available for an open pit mining operation. Shortages of Supplies and Materials The mineral industry has experienced from time to time shortages of certain supplies and materials necessary in the exploration for and evaluation of mineral deposits. The prices at which such supplies and materials are available have also greatly increased. Our planned operations would likely be subject to delays due to such shortages and that further price escalations will increase the Company’s costs of such supplies and materials. Experience of the Company and of others in the industry is that suppliers are currently often unable to meet contractual obligations for supplies, equipment, materials, and services, and that alternate sources of supply do not exist. 10 Table of Contents Availability of Outside Engineers and Consultants The Company is heavily dependent upon outside engineers and other professionals to complete work on its feasibility study. The mining industry has experienced significant growth over the last several years and as a result, many engineering and consulting firms have experienced a shortage of qualified engineering personnel. The Company closely monitors its outside consultants through regular meetings and review of resource allocations and project milestones. However, the lack of qualified personnel combined with increased mining projects could result in delays in completing our feasibility study or result in higher costs to keep personnel focused on our project. Operational Hazards; Uninsured Risks The Company is subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The Company may not be insured against all losses or liabilities, which may arise from operations, either because such insurance is unavailable or because the Company has elected not to purchase such insurance due to high premium costs or other reasons. Although the Company maintains insurance in an amount that we consider to be adequate, liabilities might exceed policy limits, in which event we could incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operation. The realization of any significant liabilities in connection with our mining activities as described above could negatively affect our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Need for Additional Key Personnel; Reliance on Officers and Directors At the present, the Company employs five full-time and one part-time employee in the United States, and relies on the personal efforts of its officers and directors. The success of the Company’s proposed business will depend, in part, upon the ability to attract and retain qualified employees. The Company believes that it will be able to attract competent employees, but no assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in this regard. If the Company is unable to engage and retain the necessary personnel, its business would be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK: No Dividends Anticipated At the present time the Company does not anticipate paying dividends, cash or otherwise, on its common stock in the foreseeable future. Future dividends will depend on earnings, if any, of the Company, its financial requirements and other factors. There can be no assurance that the Company will pay dividends. Our Stock Price Can Be Extremely Volatile The trading price of our Common Stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to announcements of our business developments and drill results, progress reports on our feasibility study, the metals markets in general, and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of companies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management to assess the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. Current regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission will require us to include management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report commencing with the annual report we file with the SEC for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2008. 11 Table of Contents We have incurred significant increased costs in implementing and responding to these requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess the Company’s internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. In response we have retained additional consultants to help us comply with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, we will incur additional fees from our auditors as they perform the additional services necessary for them to provide their attestation. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when we are required to, we may be required to change our internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements causing our stock price to decline. 