Risk Factors—Certain Factors That May Affect Our Business” and elsewhere in this report. Readers should also carefully review the risks outlined in other documents that Entrust files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that Entrust files in 2006. Entrust, Entrust-Ready, Entrust/Entelligence, and getAccess are registered trademarks of Entrust, Inc. or a subsidiary of Entrust, Inc. in certain countries. Entrust Authority, Entrust TruePass, Entrust GetAccess, Entrust Entelligence, Entrust CygnaCom, and ISG are trademarks or service marks of Entrust, Inc. or a subsidiary of Entrust, Inc. in certain countries. All other trademarks and service marks used in this annual report are the property of their respective owners. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction The demands on today’s enterprises and governments require ever increasing extension outside their boundaries to interact with suppliers, customers and citizens, and employees. Integrated supply chains, e-commerce, e-government and mobile employees are demanding business applications be open and available to them at all times. Since attacks on data are increasing in number and sophistication along with the increased flow of sensitive information, this extended enterprise and government model is driving the increased need for securing digital identities and information. As the information security market continues to mature, organizations are moving from an assessment phase to a more active remediation phase. Accordingly, the way organizations view security and how to apply it to their businesses is evolving as well. How identities are defined in today’s online environment is expanding. Once the concept of an identity applied only to an individual and organizations were concerned with determining who was on the other end of a transaction. Now, identities apply not only to individuals but also to the computers, servers, personal digital assistants, applications etc. that they use. Authentication is no longer a one-way proposition; mutual (or two way) authentication is vital to combating data theft and fraud. Organizations continue to invest in information security and the number of security projects continues to increase. What has changed is how organizations look at security. Increasingly, organizations are abandoning the “security as insurance” view of the last few years, and moving towards a more sophisticated security strategy based on risk. Security is now being applied based on the risk elements related to the identities and data an organization holds and the transactions it conducts. Simultaneously, public understanding of the risks to digital identities and information are driving organizations towards action. Malware, phishing, pharming, database breaches, laptop theft and other threats to personal identity information have created anxiety among consumers and citizens. Organizations are responding 1 Table of Contents to these customer fears by working to prevent the brand damage resulting from identity-related fraud and data breaches. Meanwhile, legislators and regulators have also become involved, creating laws and regulations such as California SB1386, Gramm-Leach-Bliley, Basel II and the FFIEC guidance on financial institution authentication. This has increased the pressure on organizations to mitigate these risks to identities and information. Penalties for violating these regulations can be steep, as evidenced by the $15 million levied against ChoicePoint in January 2006 for a data breach. Penalties resulting from brand damage and customer flight in light of a security breach can be even more expensive. When the stakes are so high, organizations have begun taking the security decisions out of the hands of users and building in rules and policies designed to automate security. Layering security into applications based on automated rules and policies is helping to properly and consistently remediate risks. About Entrust Entrust, Inc. is a global provider of security software that secures digital identities and information. Entrust operates in one business segment: the design, production and sale of policy and access management software products and related services for securing digital identities and information. Entrust software and the associated services enable businesses and governments around the world to conduct high-value, highly sensitive transactions, over wired and wireless networks including the Internet, in compliance with today’s regulatory guidelines. Over 1,450 customers have purchased and deployed the Entrust secure identity and secure information software solutions that integrate into the broad range of applications organizations use today to leverage Internet and enterprise applications to improve productivity. With over 100 patents and patent applications pending, Entrust takes the initiative in authoring and driving industry standards through standards boards and technology forums. As an innovator and pioneer in the Internet security field, Entrust’s market leadership and expertise in delivering award-winning policy and access management software solutions is demonstrated by several key distinctions the company and its products received in 2005 from leading organizations. These and other 2005 highlights include: Products and Solutions • Entrust IdentityGuard 8.0 Product Launch – In November 2005, Entrust launched a major expansion of its Entrust IdentityGuard product. A flexible, strong, risk-based mutual authentication platform, Entrust IdentityGuard 8.0 provides capabilities that enable organizations to choose from a range of authentication methods from a single solution. This is particularly significant for financial organizations faced with compliance with the October 2005 Federal Financial Institution Examination Council (FFIEC) guidance on authentication. Over 2.4 million licenses for Entrust IdentityGuard were shipped in 2005. • Web Services – In February 2005, Entrust announced new digital certificate management solutions to help organizations in managing the increasing number of security-aware devices and applications on their networks and to help add and manage security for web services applications. • Secure Boundary E-mail Encryption – In September 2005, the 8.0 release of Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server became available as an appliance, and added support for multiple e-mail encryption protocols, enhancing performance and administration capabilities. • Content Control – Entrust expanded its solution offerings for intelligent content filtering, further enabling organizations to automate content control processes used to help protect intellectual property and confidential information and guard against regulatory violations. 2 Table of Contents • HSPD-12 Solutions – Entrust announced solutions for the US Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12, which mandates the use of digital certificates on smartcards for all government employees and contractors • Common Criteria Certification – In January 2005, Entrust Authority Security Manager, foundation of the Entrust Authority product portfolio, achieved Common Criteria EAL 4+ certification, an international security standard. • Integration with leading vendors – In 2005, Entrust achieved and extended integration with leading vendors, such as Microsoft, Research in Motion (RIM), PGP, Check Point, F5, Juniper Networks, Citrix, Trustgenix, Nortel, Adobe, Apple, Linux, Cyclone Commerce and Authentify. Customers As of December 31, 2005, Entrust had licensed software to more than 1,450 customers in over 50 countries. These customers in turn have implemented Entrust software to securely deliver information and services to millions of business and consumer end users. Entrust’s customers are Global 1500 enterprises, including financial, healthcare, telecommunications and large manufacturing organizations, as well as domestic and foreign government agencies. Key customer events in 2005 include: • US Department of State – Selected an Entrust digital signature solution to secure data on the new chip enabled passports. • Government of Sweden – Entrust IdentityGuard was chosen by nine of Sweden’s largest public agencies to provide strong authentication to over 500,000 users. • SCHUFA – Entrust IdentityGuard was selected to provide strong authentication for a new personal credit information portal. SCHUFA holds data on over 62 million individuals. • Commercebank – Selected Entrust IdentityGuard for strong authentication for their 40,000 users of online banking. • Siemens – Chose Entrust GetAccess for single sign-on to their enterprise portal that is used by over 110,000 employees in Europe. • New Zealand Ministry of Economic Development – Deployed Entrust IdentityGuard to secure remote access to all users in the department. • Government of Spain – Selected Entrust digital certificate technology to incorporate into its national ID card. • Government of Canada – Has issued over 900,000 digital IDs, known as e-passes, to businesses and citizens. Over 25 applications utilize the epass. • Canadian High Performance Computing Virtual Lab – Became a Certificate Authority using the Entrust Authority product portfolio. • State of Illinois – Received the US Environmental Protection Agency CIO Partnerships Award for eDMR project. • US Federal Bureau of Investigation – Announced in June 2005 that it had deployed Entrust security software to 33,000 desktop computers in a project that was delivered ahead of schedule and under budget. 3 Table of Contents CORPORATE STRATEGY In 2005, Entrust continued to focus on key vertical and geographical markets, product transformation and innovation, customer deployments and service improvements. From a financial perspective, Entrust increased revenue and continued to maintain cost controls which enabled the Company to reach its highest profitability in company history. Entrust’s corporate priority in 2006 is to continue the momentum established in 2005 and grow the Company profitably. To facilitate the achievement of this goal, Entrust plans to drive revenue growth by expanding markets for its new solutions, executing on vertical and geographical opportunities, increasing channels to market, keeping a tight hold on costs and remaining focused on customers. Key corporate initiatives include: Key Security Market Segments Entrust is focusing on key areas around Consumer and Enterprise Authentication, Email Security, Content Control, Public Key Infrastructure and Developer Tools. Over the past six months the Company has introduced new solutions in each of these areas. Each of these new solutions positions the company into some very fast growing markets in the security software market space: • Entrust IdentityGuard gives Entrust a new, low cost, second factor solution for dealing with identity theft and phishing. Entrust IdentityGuard 8.0 expands Entrust’s offering to a full suite of solutions for consumer and enterprise authentication needs in the market. • Entrust Web Mail Center and Entrust Messaging Server expand the company’s offering in the fast growing Email Security market. • Entrust Entelligence Compliance Server delivers content control solutions for enterprises and governments needing to deal with the growing regulatory and corporate compliance mandates around email and data storage. • Entrust Public Key Infrastructure portfolio provides authentication, encryption and digital certificate capabilities to the Enterprise and Government market place. • Entrust Developer Tools are designed to make security: easier for developers to add security to applications, easier for administrators to deploy and manage security and easier for users to apply security to their digital lives. • Entrust Single Sign On capability gives companies the ability to combine user name password, second factor authentication, provisioning, digital signature and policy management from one vendor. • Geographic markets—Focusing direct resources on North America and Europe and leveraging partners in non-core geographies. Entrust will have a strong focus on developing the market for its solutions in China. • Vertical markets—Providing solutions and services coupled with sales and marketing programs targeted at financial services, government, healthcare, telecom and Global 1500 enterprises. • Go-to-market partners—Developing strategic relationships with key channels to market, such as system integrators and system consultants, global and regional distributors and original equipment manufacturers or OEMs, and taking advantage of bundling or licensing opportunities with other technology manufacturers. • Marketing programs—Raising Entrust brand awareness and the need for Entrust digital identity and information security solutions. • Service and deployment initiatives—Ensuring industry leadership standards for quality in our customer deployments and our product solutions. Solutions for Securing Digital Identities and Information Secure Identity Solutions The Entrust Secure Identity Solution is a suite of market-leading security products that enable customers to easily issue and manage identities for many types of users, applications or devices. The solution supports a 4 Table of Contents broad range of authentication methods – from username/password to digital identities to two-factor authentication – as well as the tools necessary to control authorization to enterprise and Web-based applications. Leveraging best-of-breed capabilities, the solution is easy to deploy and operate, includes secure administration and audit, and cost-effectively scales to address large user populations. The Entrust Secure Identity products make it easier and more cost-effective for organizations to manage who or what has access to information, helping them realize the business benefits of sharing information electronically while complying with stringent legislative and corporate governance requirements. (a) The Entrust IdentityGuard Product Portfolio “Financial institutions should use effective methods to authenticate the identity of customers.” (Authentication in an Internet Banking Environment,Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, October 2005) Entrust IdentityGuard is a comprehensive strong authentication platform for Internet and enterprise applications. This suite of strong authentication capabilities enables organizations to take a risk-based approach to tailoring their security deployments. Flexible deployment options enable organizations to match strong authentication methods to the level of risk associated with different types of users, transactions, and applications in an environment. In October 2005, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), recommended that financial institutions implement enhanced authentication methods in guidance called, “Authentication in an Internet Banking Environment.” For banks offering Internet-based financial services, the guidance describes authentication methods beyond username and password that regulators expect banks to use when authenticating the identity of customers using the on-line products and services. Examiners will review this area to determine a financial institution’s progress in complying with this guidance during upcoming examinations. Entrust IdentityGuard is appropriate for meeting this FFIEC guidance. By allowing an organization to layer strong authentication methods – including two-factor authentication and mutual authentication – across different users and transaction types, Entrust IdentityGuard can reduce the risk of fraudulent transactions and minimize security expenditures. (b) Entrust Certificate Services Portfolio Entrust Certificate Services provides 128-bit SSL Certificates and WAP Certificates to enable secure communications online. As a basis for more comprehensive secured Web portal initiatives, SSL Certificates provide information about the authenticity of Web sites and provide a basic level of security for online transactions. SSL Certificates provide authentication of Web sites and enable SSL encryption between Web browsers and servers. SSL Certificates from Entrust are unique in the market as they are enabled for automatic checking of Certificate Revocation Lists and thus can provide users with a higher level of confidence about the legitimacy of a Web site. The Entrust Certificate Management Service—Enhanced edition reduces SSL management costs by enabling quantities of certificates to be pooled into a re-usable inventory and enables administration delegation as e-business programs expand across an organization and multiple, distributed SSL-enabled servers become a requirement. (c) The Entrust GetAccess Product Portfolio The Entrust GetAccess product portfolio provides organizations with the security, flexibility and performance required to personalize a user’s online experience. Entrust GetAccess software makes it possible for 5 Table of Contents an organization to authenticate the users with whom it is doing business through its Web portal and provide personalized access to information based on this user identity. Entrust GetAccess software allows multiple online applications to leverage a common infrastructure to manage identities and authorizations, enabling new applications to be deployed more securely and quickly. (d) Entrust Secure Transaction Platform Product Portfolio Entrust Secure Transaction Platform (STP) provides a comprehensive capability to secure Web services and server-based applications. Entrust led the market in late 2002 with the introduction of Entrust STP, enabling organizations to deploy a common, unified security architecture for Web services, rather than implementing security separately in each Web services application. Entrust STP extends the market-deployed leadership in delivering security for a client/server and portal architecture. With the introduction of Entrust STP, Entrust sets the benchmark for interoperating across client/server, portals and Web services architecture in a transparent manner. (e) Entrust TruePass Product Portfolio The Entrust TruePass product portfolio, Entrust’s thin-client public-key infrastructure (“PKI”), provides organizations with the confidence to migrate critical applications onto Internet and intranet Web portals. Organizations can conduct valuable and sensitive online transactions more securely using Entrust TruePass software to provide strong authentication, accountability of transactions and end-to-end data privacy. The U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology and Canada’s Communications Security Establishment have awarded Entrust TruePass software the Federal Information Processing Standards 140-1 validation. Entrust TruePass software was the first Java application to gain this level of security validation from both agencies. (f) Entrust USB Tokens Collaborating with SafeNet, Entrust distributes SafeNet iKey 2032 tokens as Entrust USB Tokens, which form an integrated component of the Entrust product portfolio. These security tokens enable strong two-factor authentication to desktops, VPNs, WLANs and Web portals. Entrust USB Tokens are designed to work together with Entrust’s leading PKI product portfolio to provide a comprehensive, scalable security solution that meets customer needs for stronger authentication, encryption and digital signatures. (g) The Entrust Entelligence Product Portfolio The Entrust Entelligence product portfolio includes desktop and server-based capabilities that enable security for key enterprise applications such as e-mail, file and folder protection, remote access and more. Two core elements of the portfolio are Entrust Entelligence Desktop Manager and Entrust Entelligence Security Provider – client-based applications that deliver secure identity management to enterprise desktop applications. Entrust Entelligence Desktop Manager provides a consistent, single security layer to the desktop, transparently and automatically managing digital IDs throughout their lifecycle on behalf of the user. This desktop client has been designed to meet stringent government security standards, and is easily bundled with complementary plug-ins that enable digital signatures and encryption for enterprise transactions. Entrust Entelligence Security Provider is a thin client desktop security platform that leverages some of the native underlying security capabilities of Windows desktop applications, while still delivering automatic and transparent digital identity management. Entrust Entelligence Security Provider also extends Entrust’s market-leading management capabilities to support machine identities, enabling organizations to securely identify not only users on their corporate networks, but also machines interacting with critical business information. By integrating seamlessly into the desktop and server environments, Entrust Entelligence delivers a unified security system that includes a wide range of capabilities. Entrust Entelligence software delivers security to 6 Table of Contents communications and applications to allow critical business processes to be moved to the Internet and enterprise networks with greater confidence. It can also be combined with Entrust-Ready products from third-party vendors to provide enhanced security for multiple enterprise applications including Enterprise Resource Planning, document management and legacy applications. (h) The Entrust Authority Product Portfolio The Entrust Authority product portfolio is the backbone of many of Entrust’s secure digital identity offerings. First introduced to market in 1994, Entrust Authority Security Manager was the first product to receive Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 140-1 certification (1995) and Common Criteria certification (1999), and has captured the largest market share in the PKI market space. Through transparent, centralized security and policy management, Entrust Authority manages the full lifecycles of certificate-based digital identities, and enables digital signature, encryption and strong authentication across a broad range of applications and platforms. At the heart of the Entrust Authority product portfolio is Entrust Authority Security Manager, the Certification Authority (CA) system responsible for issuing and managing digital identities for users, applications and devices. Its unique capabilities include the ability to automatically and transparently manage the entire lifecycle of digital identities – from automatic issuance, to one-step recovery, to seamless rollover of keys and certificates, to immediate revocation. Entrust Authority also centrally enforces identity and security policies such as authentication method, cryptographic algorithms, password length, revocation checking and more, and provides centralized audit capabilities. Secure Information Solutions Data is the lifeblood of any organization. Whether at rest or in transit, data needs to be protected from theft, alteration or loss. The Entrust Secure Information Solution consists of a comprehensive, highly scalable suite of data and e-mail security products and services that help organizations mitigate the risk of data loss, corruption and disclosure so they can confidently capitalize on new technologies that enable greater stakeholder collaboration and, ultimately, business growth. It helps organizations secure sensitive and valuable information stored on computers, mobile devices, and corporate networks and protect data in transit through e-mail. The solution also helps organizations abide by new legislative regulations that mandate stronger data security controls, without unduly burdening the people and processes that make use of this critical data. Organizations can realize the promise of secure information through: • encryption which provides end-to-end data protection and privacy; • authentication, which strongly identifies the requesting users, device or application before releasing sensitive data; • policy-based access control, which manages individual user access rights to data and applications based on corporate policy; • digital signatures which improves accountability for data transactions and protects the integrity of data involved in a transaction; • content scanning that helps organizations identify and secure transmitted via multiple protocols; • messaging solutions that encrypt e-mail both within an organization and beyond the boundary. Products in the Entrust Secure Information Solution include the following: (a) Entrust Entelligence Content Control Server Entrust Entelligence Content Control Server uses highly sophisticated content analysis tools to automatically analyze and categorize e-mail messages and document content based on the contextual meaning, 7 Table of Contents not simply pre-defined word lists. The Content Control Server centrally enforces policy in real-time, identifying risky items and taking action before a violation has occurred, helping to protect organizations against the brand damage and financial penalties that can accompany a corporate governance or regulatory violation. In doing so, Content Control Server help organizations protect their networks, safeguard employee productivity and comply with corporate, government and industry regulations. Unlike other content scanning products available on the market today, Content Control Server uses patented statistical and linguistic algorithms that understand the context and the concepts of the message instead of simply matching words encoded in rule bases, resulting in fewer false positives, and more effective e-mail categorization. The technology underlying the Content Control Server is well-suited to analyzing subtlety-worded e-mail messages and attachments, which lends itself well to identifying messages that may violate corporate or regulatory compliance policies. (b) Entrust Entelligence Content Analysis Toolkit Underlying the Entrust Entelligence Content Control Server is the award-winning content analysis technology which is also available as a standalone toolkit for developers or other Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) wanting to build their own applications for e-mail risk management and compliance. The Content Analysis Toolkit enables developers to rapidly deploy advanced content analysis capabilities in any C++ or Java environment. (c) Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server The Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server is a server-based e-mail security gateway that makes it easier to communicate securely with external partners and customers. As a central component of the Entrust Secure Messaging Solution, the server transparently manages security functions on behalf of users and enables automatic e-mail encryption, making it easier for users to securely communicate with their colleagues outside of the organization. To ease deployment across large enterprise and government organizations, the Messaging Server seamlessly supports both Microsoft Outlook/Exchange and Lotus Notes/Domino environments. In both cases, messages can be secured “end-to-end” or at the “boundary”, helping to protect sensitive communications both internally and with external recipients such as the corporate board, outside legal counsel, audit teams, and business partners. Using Microsoft Outlook, “end-to-end” digital signatures and encryption are provided via Entrust Entelligence client software. Through unique and market-leading support for Lotus, the Messaging Server enables customers to maintain their native Notes security implementations for internal secure communications, but provides a much easier solution for securing external communications. Completely transparent to the sender, the Messaging Server automatically converts externally bound secured e-mail to industry-standard S/MIME or Web mail, helping to ensure an easier experience for both the sender and receiver. (d) Entrust Entelligence WebMail Center The Entrust Entelligence WebMail Center is an optional add-on to the Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server and works with both Microsoft Outlook/Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes messaging systems. It is designed for organizations that need to securely exchange e-mail with a broad range of recipients who may not support the S/MIME secure e-mail standard, such as those using Hotmail or Yahoo! The Entrust Entelligence WebMail Center provides many common benefits with the Messaging Server product, but speeds deployment and broadens the reach of the solution since recipients do not need to be S/MIME aware, or to have X.509 digital certificates. (e) The Entrust Entelligence Product Portfolio (Messaging) Two key products within the Entrust Entelligence portfolio are the Entrust Entelligence™ E-mail Plug-in and Entrust Entelligence Security Provider for Outlook. 8 Table of Contents Both products provide single-click encryption and digital signatures for leading enterprise e-mail clients to provide “end-to-end” e-mail security – protecting e-mail communications in transit from one user to another, and at rest on the desktop and servers. By extending security to the desktop, these clients offer customers a greater level of risk management, protecting e-mail communications within the enterprise or externally to partners and customers. Seamlessly integrated with the Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server and Entrust Entelligence Content Control Server, customers still benefit from the centralized security and policy management capabilities provided by these products. E-mail Plug-in leverages an organization’s current enterprise infrastructure and integrates with most existing messaging platforms to enable users to seamlessly deliver security to e-mail messages while in transit and while stored on the desktop. It provides “government-strength” security and has been successfully validated pursuant to stringent standards relating to the US Federal Bridge capabilities. Security Provider for Outlook leverages more of the native security features of Microsoft Outlook while still providing automatic and transparent digital identity management. (f) Entrust Entelligence Desktop Manager and File Plug-in (desktop security) Entrust Entelligence Desktop Manager provides a consistent, single security layer to the desktop, transparently and automatically managing digital IDs throughout their lifecycle on behalf of the user. This desktop client has been designed to meet stringent government security standards, and is easily bundled with complementary plug-ins that enable digital signatures and encryption for enterprise transactions. In addition to core identity management capabilities, Entrust Entelligence Desktop Manager provides users with the ability to protect sensitive documents on an ad hoc basis. Accessed via a simple right-click menu on a file by file basis, users can encrypt, sign, timestamp, password protect and securely delete documents. Providing greater flexibility for enterprise data protection, the Entrust Entelligence File Plug-in can be bundled with Desktop Manager to provide automatic encryption of files and folders accessed by individuals or workgroups. It protects sensitive information from unauthorized access and misuse. (g) Entrust Entelligence Security Provider Entrust Entelligence Security Provider is a thin client desktop security platform that leverages the native underlying security capabilities of Windows desktop applications, while still delivering automatic and transparent digital identity management. For organizations looking to leverage the automatic and transparent file and folder protection delivered with Microsoft’s Encrypting File System (EFS), Security Provider delivers fully managed digital identities that can be used with EFS but, unlike certificates provided natively, can be easily recovered in the case of forgotten passwords or corruption. This critical capability enables organizations to deploy file encryption with confidence. In addition to enhancing file and folder encryption, Security Provider also delivers and manages digital identities that can be used with applications such as Adobe Acrobat – enabling digital signatures and encryption for secure electronic documents and e-forms. (l) Entrust Authority Cryptographic Toolkits Entrust Authority cryptographic toolkits provide customers and developers with the ability to apply best-in-class security to almost any business application. These toolkits provide a common set of services to permit developers to rapidly deploy applications for business problems without having to spend valuable resource cycles re-developing these common services. The Entrust Authority toolkits use standards-based, application programming interfaces to make it possible to implement unified security architecture across multiple applications and platforms. By minimizing the need for separate administration modules with every deployed application, these toolkits help to address administrative duplication and the overhead of deploying across multiple platforms. 9 Table of Contents Many Entrust customers have elected to combine Entrust toolkits and Entrust TruePass to build custom secure data solutions that meet their need for tamper-resistant file transfer or other applications. Services The Entrust Professional Services team has demonstrated its experience worldwide by delivering innovative solutions utilizing both standard and customized Entrust products. Many of the Internet security industry’s most highly skilled and experienced engineers, security architects, and security consultants are members of the Entrust team. These experts have assisted the world’s governments and Global 1500 companies in addressing complex security issues with practical solutions. In the process, they have established an outstanding reputation for on-time delivery, exceptional quality and innovative approaches to complex business opportunities globally. (a) Entrust CygnaCom Entrust CygnaCom has been providing professional information security services and cryptographic solutions to government and business clients since 1994. With a staff of highly qualified engineers, Entrust CygnaCom provides a wide range of consulting services and customized solutions to help clients develop, implement and maintain their information security programs, policies and strategy. The McLean, Virginia location provides Entrust with a large professional services organization to meet the growing needs of the U.S. Federal government. Entrust CygnaCom’s facilities were among the first to be accredited by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program for information technology security testing against the federal cryptographic criteria (Common Criteria (ISO/IEC 15408)). (b) Internet Security Consulting Services Entrust Internet security consulting services empower customers with knowledge by identifying Internet security business drivers related to organizations’ needs, priorities and return on investment. This knowledge is used to prepare security-requirement analyses and security-policy documents, develop business cases and speed time-to-market by avoiding potential pitfalls associated with enterprise software deployment. (c) Deployment Services Entrust deployment services provide planning and implementation expertise to assist in the installation and deployment of Entrust enhanced Internet security solutions. For organizations seeking a proven solution aligned with business objectives, Entrust deployment services provide end-to-end project management and execution. (d) Systems Integration Services To maximize the return on investment of an Entrust solution, customers can leverage the expertise of Entrust’s systems integration team. Common areas of integration include customization of user registration and identification systems, incorporation of entitlements with third-party and legacy applications, improvement of existing legacy and third-party application security, and provision of enhanced user and security management. With a broad range of expertise and proven experience on multiple platforms, applications and environments, the Entrust system integration team delivers solutions with quantifiable benefits to challenging business opportunities. Key components of success include rapid time-to-market, efficient transfer of knowledge, and the utilization of knowledge gained in hundreds of previous deployments of Entrust products. (e) Training Services Entrust’s Training group serves customers, partners, and employees. Training is a critical part of a successful software deployment, and over 5000 customers, partners, and employees have attended technical training. In these in-depth, hands-on sessions, attendees learn how to deploy, operate, administer, customize and/or support Entrust software solutions. 10 Table of Contents With the release of the appliance-based Entrust Entelligence Content Control Server, Entrust Training has developed a strong process for developing web-based training. This process is applied to all appliance-based products on the Entrust product roadmap and enables customers to implement solutions in the shortest possible timeframe. SUPPORT Entrust believes that the highest quality of customer and technical service delivery is crucial to its success, and Entrust service and support programs are key components of its commitment to offer the industry’s broadest set of enhanced internet security services. Entrust is committed to be an industry leader in the area of support as it has become a very key customer attribute in selecting a technology partner. Entrust has invested heavily in this area and the investment has paid off in the form of increased customer satisfaction and increased support and maintenance revenue. Entrust’s three-tiered, global support program gives customers the flexibility to choose between proven service and support levels that align with business needs. In addition, customers can access an extranet for online self-service technical support. SALES, MARKETING AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Sales Entrust offers its products, solutions and services through a multi-channel sales approach, reflecting the characteristics and buying behavior of the target-markets covered. Entrust plans to continue to focus its marketing and sales efforts to capitalize upon the need for secure digital identities and information within both the enterprise and government markets. Entrust plans to utilize a prioritized combination of direct and indirect sales channels around the globe. Entrust believes that its direct sales force, working in conjunction with indirect channels offering complementary products and services, provides Entrust with a competitive advantage in responding to customer needs as they evolve. Entrust intends to deliver revenue growth in 2006 through its sales efforts. Marketing To support its direct sales force and the TrustedPartner network, Entrust has a marketing team whose goals are to create a consistent, focused communication strategy that increases awareness of Entrust’s digital identity and information security solutions and services, and leverages that awareness in the identification of new sales opportunities. The marketing team creates and conducts integrated programs that include advertising, direct mail, trade shows, seminars, Web marketing, public relations and ongoing customer communication. Entrust intends to invest in targeted marketing programs for existing customers and prospects in key vertical and geographic markets. 11 Table of Contents Business Development Identifying new markets and opportunities in advance of the current competitive landscape has been a consistent theme at Entrust. The breadth of Entrust’s security products, solutions and services, key relationships and the number of customers are testimony to Entrust’s success. To identify and develop strategic relationships with targeted industry providers more effectively, Entrust has a business development organization that pursues select business development activities, including the administration and promotion of the Entrust-Ready Program. These activities permit Entrust to strengthen relationships with existing strategic providers and identify and encourage new providers of software, network computing and communications products to make their products interoperable with Entrust. Entrust actively looks for opportunities to continue its leadership position, whether by partnering, internally developing or acquiring the necessary technologies and services to provide a full suite of solutions to its customers. REGULATORY MATTERS Certain Entrust products are subject to special export requirements administered by the governments of the United States, Canada and other countries. Entrust’s products may also be subject to import restrictions and/or use restrictions imposed by some countries. Consequently, Entrust’s ability to export its products to destinations outside the U.S. and Canada is subject to a variety of administrative requirements, government approvals or licensing requirements. Re-exports of the products between countries other than the U.S. and Canada may be subject to the export control laws of those countries in addition to those provisions of the U.S. and/or Canadian export control laws which apply to re-exports. In light of these regulations, depending on the end-user, end-use and country of destination, some of our products may not be sold to certain parties, and some products made available abroad may contain significantly weaker encryption capabilities than those available to customers in the U.S. and Canada. In addition, extra controls which the United States applies to sales to foreign governmental entities, as noted below, can create additional obligations for Entrust in this market sector. All other Entrust products are exempt from U.S. export authorization and they have been marketed accordingly. In summary, the rules are as follows: U.S. products cannot be exported to certain prohibited persons and entities, to certain embargoed countries, or for certain types of end-uses. No U.S. governmental review is required for some exports, such as products containing limited use encryption, including products that are limited to financial applications, and exports for internal use by foreign subsidiaries of companies based in the U.S. and in certain other countries. For other encryption products, exports are allowed after a one-time 30-day review, except that certain products identified as “restricted” require separate licenses for export to government end-users in certain countries. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect the Company’s proprietary rights. Pursuant to patent cross-license agreements, the Company also licenses some of its patents to other corporations and, in return, receives rights from those corporations in respect to patents owned or licensable by such corporations. The Company is a licensee under patent cross license agreements with Nortel Networks Limited (Nortel) and Tumbleweed Communications Corp. The license with Nortel was entered into in connection with the Company’s spinout from Nortel. The Company is also a licensee in respect to certain single patents that are not part of any cross licensing arrangement. A very large proportion of the Company’s products incorporate technology that is licensed from third parties and, as such, a significant percentage of the Company’s revenues depend upon the availability of licensed technology. The Company uses a large number of open source software packages in its products. In general, 12 Table of Contents these software packages are licensed to the Company on a no-charge basis without any representations or warranties as to performance or non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Accordingly, if these open source packages are found to infringe or misappropriate any third-party intellectual property rights, Entrust could potentially be held liable by such third parties and potentially by Entrust customer’s pursuant to intellectual property indemnity obligations in Entrust’s license agreements with such customers, without any recourse against the developer of such infringing or misappropriating open source software. Certain open source packages used by Entrust, and in particular, certain components in the GNU Linux operating system, are licensed pursuant the GNU General Public License (the “GPL”). In certain instances, the terms of the GPL may require a licensee to make certain of that licensee’s own proprietary software available under the same terms as those set forth in the GPL. As such, application of the GPL’s “viral” terms to a licensee’s own proprietary software could result in that proprietary software become available, at no charge, as open source software. The Company does not believe that any of its proprietary software is subject to the viral provisions of the GPL, however, the exact scope of these viral provisions has not been definitively established in any court actions and there is significant disagreement within the software industry as to the actual scope of these viral provisions. The amount and nature of the third-party technology used in Entrust’s products varies between products. In general, and except as further discussed below, the Company’s products or other revenue generating activities (i) do not depend to a material extent on any one technology that is only available from a single source, (ii) do not depend to a material extent on any technology that would require a significant engineering effort to replace, or (iii) are not of a type that cannot be supplied by multiple vendors. Furthermore, except as further discussed below, the Company believes that due to market competitiveness, any change in vendors or in third-party providers of technology will not have a material effect on the pricing or appeal of the affected Company product. The Company maintains internal processes to monitor the terms and renewal dates for various third-party technologies so that the Company is able to plan in advance for contract renegotiation, extension, or product substitution. Therefore, it is the Company’s belief that, in general, in the case of interruption, non-renewal or expiration of a third-party license, the measures currently in place will allow the Company to promptly provide for replacement technology. However, some of the Company’s products incorporate technology licensed from third parties that cannot be promptly replaced. An example is certain Java-related technologies that are made available, without a royalty obligation, by Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun). Notwithstanding the fact that this technology is only available from a single source, the Company believes that there is no material risk that such technology will become unavailable to the Company without significant prior notice. In the case of the Java-related technologies referenced above, the Company believes there is no material risk that Sun is going to significantly change the terms under which those Java-related technologies are made available to the computer industry and further if Sun were to make any significant changes, it would provide its licensees with alternative choices or a significant period of time to transition to other technologies. Another example of a technology that could potentially be difficult to replace is the GNU Linux operating system. The GNU Linux operating system is used as the underlying operating system for a number of Entrust appliance-based products. If the GNU Linux operating system was no longer available to Entrust, or was to become available to Entrust only under terms and conditions that were unacceptable to Entrust, then Entrust would need to seek a replacement operating system for its appliance-based products. The transition to such a replacement operating system could be lengthy and costly because of the need to potentially modify various Entrust applications that previous ran on the GNU Linux operating system so that they could run on the replacement operating system. Such a transition might also involve incremental royalty costs if the royalties for the replacement operating system exceeded those that Entrust is paying for the variant of GNU Linux that it is currently using. It is also possible that Entrust might have to replace other third-party applications with which Entrust applications currently interoperate if such third-party applications are not supported on any replacement operating system that might be selected by Entrust. If this were the case, this need to replace these third-party applications could increase the re-engineering effort and might result in the need to license commercial packages with attendant royalty obligations. In the case of the Company’s Certificate Services business, the commercial viability of that business is dependent on having various browser manufacturers continue to embed the Company’s root key certificate in their browsers. If one or more of these manufacturers were to remove the Company’s root key certificate from their browser, the viability of the Company’s Certificate Services business could be negatively affected. However, because of the rate of 13 Table of Contents turnover of various browser releases, the effect of such a removal would probably be gradual. Additionally, it might also be possible to address such a removal by entering into a cross certification arrangement with another certification authority whose root key certificate was still embedded in the affected browser. It should be noted that such a potential solution might be expensive or unavailable because any certification authorities that might be in a position to cross certify with the Company would also probably have competitive offerings to the Company’s Certificate Services business. COMPETITION Entrust addresses key markets that help mitigate business risk by securing information and securing identities. Entrust solutions protect users and reduce loss from business fraud and protect sensitive data, regardless where it resides, while providing robust controls and audit on those who can access critical systems. Our focus is on 6 emerging growth areas: Consumer Authentication, Enterprise Authentication, Content Control, Email Security, Digital Certificates and Developer Tools. In each of these areas, Entrust encounters some of its traditional competitors, as well as new vendors who are entering the market. Entrust believes that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for its security solutions include features such as ease of use, quality/reliability of security, scalability, customer service and support and price. Although Entrust believes that its products compete favorably in respect of all these factors, there can be no assurance that Entrust can maintain its competitive position against current or potential competitors. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, Entrust had 475 full-time employees globally. No employees are covered by any collective bargaining agreements, and Entrust believes that its relationship with its employees is good. CORPORATE INFORMATION Stockholder Information: Computershare Investor Services, LLC 2 North LaSalle Street Chicago, IL 60602 USA Phone: (312) 588-4993 Fax: (312) 601-4350 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm: Grant Thornton LLP 1717 Main Street, Suite 500 Dallas, TX 75201 USA For more information please contact Entrust, Inc.’s Investor Relations Department at: One Hanover Park 16633 Dallas Parkway, Suite 800 Addison, TX 75001 Phone: (972) 713-5858 E-mail: investor@entrust.com We maintain a website with the address www.entrust.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make 14 Table of Contents available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also posted on our Web site are charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominations and Corporate Governance Committee and a Code of Business Conduct. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from our Code of Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and such fluctuations may lead to a reduced market price for our stock. Our revenues and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful, but securities analysts and investors often rely upon these comparisons as indicators of future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or the guidance that we provide, the market price of our securities would likely decline. Factors that have caused our results to fluctuate in the past and which are likely to affect us in the future include the following: • reduced capital expenditures for software; • length of sales cycles associated with our product offerings; • the timing, size and nature of our licensing transactions; • the increased dependency on partners for end user fulfillment; • market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us; • market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by our competitors; • the relative proportions of revenues derived from licenses and services and maintenance; • the timing of new personnel hires and the rate at which new personnel become productive; • changes in pricing policies by our competitors; • changes in our operating expenses; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and • reduced spending by critical vertical markets. Estimating future revenues is difficult, and our failure to do so accurately may lead to a reduced market price for our stock and reduced profitability. Estimating future revenues is difficult because we ship our products soon after an order is received and, as such, we do not have a significant order backlog. Thus, quarterly license revenues depend heavily upon orders received and shipped within the same quarter. Moreover, we historically have recorded 50% to 60% of our total quarterly revenues in the third month of the quarter, with a concentration of revenues in the second half of that month. We expect that this concentration of revenues, which is attributable in part to the tendency of some customers to make significant capital expenditures at the end of a fiscal quarter and to sales patterns within the software industry, will continue. Our expense levels are based, in significant part, upon our expectations as to future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any 15 Table of Contents unexpected shortfall in revenues. Any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our expectations could have an immediate and significant effect on our profitability for that quarter and may lead to a reduced market price for our stock. Because of the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle associated with our large software transactions, we may not succeed in closing transactions on a timely basis or at all, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Transactions for our solutions often involve large expenditures, and the sales cycles for these transactions are often lengthy and unpredictable. Factors affecting the sales cycle include: • customers’ budgetary constraints, particularly in a soft economic environment where technology spending is often deferred; • the timing of customers’ budget cycles; and • customers’ internal approval processes. We may not succeed in closing such large transactions on a timely basis or at all, which could cause significant variability in our revenues and results of operations for any particular period. If our results of operations and cash flows fall below the expectations of securities analysts, or below the targeted guidance range that we have provided, our stock price may decline. A limited number of customers has accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues, which may decline if we cannot maintain or replace these customer relationships, and for a significant percentage of our accounts receivable. Historically, a limited number of customers have accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, our three largest customers accounted in the aggregate for 31%, 32% and 29% of revenues, respectively. We anticipate that our results of operations in any given period will continue to depend to a significant extent upon revenues from a small number of large customers. In addition, we anticipate that such customers will continue to vary over time, so that the achievement of our long-term goals will require us to obtain additional significant customers on an ongoing basis. Our failure to enter into a sufficient number of large licensing agreements during a particular period could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, our accounts receivable include material balances from a limited number of customers, with five customers accounting in the aggregate for 36% of gross accounts receivable at December 31, 2005, compared to 31% of gross accounts receivable at December 31, 2004. One customer individually accounted for 10% or more of net accounts receivable at December 31, 2005, at 17%. As of December 31, 2005, the total accounts receivable is $20.3 million, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $0.5 million. Changes in the financial condition of these customers could result in a different assessment of the existing credit risk of our accounts receivable and thus, a different required allowance, which could have a material impact on our reported earnings. The U.S. and Canadian Federal Governments account for a significant percentage of our revenues, which may decline or be subject to delays, which would adversely affect our operating results. The extended government vertical (Governments, including Healthcare) accounted for 55% of our product revenue in 2005 and 24% of product revenue in 2004. The U.S. and Canadian governments represented 17% and 10% of total revenues, respectively, in 2005, which includes revenues sold through resellers to these government end users. Sustaining and growing revenues in the government market will depend, in large part, on the following: • the adoption rate of our products within government departments and agencies; • the timing and amount of budget appropriations for information technology and specifically information security; 16 Table of Contents • the timing of adoption of information security policies and regulations, including, but not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the California Breach Disclosure Law (SB1386); and • our ability to develop and maintain the appropriate business relationships with partners with whom the government contracts for information security projects. A decline, or delay in the growth of this market could reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations. In addition, changes in Government officials as a result of elections could have an impact on our prospects in the Government market. Our ability to sell to the Government may also be impacted by changes to, or termination of, the supply agreement(s) we have in place with the Government, which from time to time come up for renewal and renegotiation. Finally, failure to properly monitor pricing on government contracts could result in liability for penalties to the government for non-compliance. We sometimes enter into complex contracts, which require ongoing monitoring and administration. Failure to monitor and administer these contracts properly could result in liability or damages. We sometimes enter into complex contracts with our Government customers that contain clauses that provide that if a customer who falls within a specific category (known as a Relevant Customer) is offered better terms on the Company’s software products and related services that had been offered to the Government customer, then the Government customer will be able to buy additional quantities of those software products and services for the same length of time, from the same effective date and on the better terms that were offered to the Relevant Customer. The Company monitors compliance with these contracts on a continuous basis. The Company also conducts periodic self-assessments to ensure that the contracts are being properly administered and that there are no accruing liabilities for non-compliance. If these contracts are not properly monitored and administered, they may be breached and could result in damages payable by us which, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. War, the significant threat of war, or a terrorist act could adversely affect our business. Historically, the economy has been adversely affected by war, the significant threat of war and terrorist acts. Any of these factors could cause one or more of the following to occur: • government spending could be reprioritized to wartime activities; • global enterprise spending budgets could be cut or delayed resulting in lower demand for our products; or • widespread and unprecedented acts of cyber-terrorism could cause disruption of communications and technology infrastructures, which could impact our customers or products and could have unforeseen economic impacts. A decline or delay in economic spending due to war, the significant threat of war or a terrorist act could reduce demand for our products, materially adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations. A widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. A number of countries in the Asia/Pacific region have experienced outbreaks of SARS and/or bird flu. As a result of such an outbreak, businesses can be shut down temporarily and individuals can become ill or quarantined. Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in North America, Europe or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. If our operations 17 Table of Contents are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. In addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. Further, if our customers’ businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If the enterprise information technology budgets and the digital identity security market do not continue to grow, demand for our products and services will be adversely affected. The market for digital identity and information security solutions is at an early stage of development. Continued growth of the digital identity security market will depend, in large part, on the following: • the continued increase in the number of organizations adopting or expanding intranets and extranets; • the rate of adoption of Internet-based business applications such as Web Services; • the ability of network infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services; • the public recognition of the potential threat posed by computer hackers and other unauthorized users; and • the continued development of new and improved services for implementation across the Internet, intranets and extranets. A decline in the growth of this market could reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations. A breach of security at one of our customers, whether or not due to our products, could harm our reputation and reduce the demand for our products. The processes used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks and intranets are rapidly evolving. A well-publicized actual or perceived breach of network or computer security at one of our customers, regardless of whether such breach is attributable to our products, third-party technology used within our products or any significant advance in techniques for decoding or “cracking” encrypted information, could adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products, and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and the demand for our products. In addition, the security level of our products is dependent upon the processes and procedures used to install and operate our products. Failure on the part of our customers to properly install and operate our products, could cause a security breach, which could adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products, and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and the demand for our products. Sales of our products may decline if some of our products are found to contain bugs or errors. Our existing testing procedures may not detect errors, failures or bugs in our software products. Such errors may become evident at any time during the life of our products. The discovery of any errors, failures or bugs in any products, including third-party technology incorporated into our products, may result in: • adverse publicity; • product returns; • the loss or delay of market acceptance of our products; and • third-party claims against us. Accordingly, the discovery of any errors, failures or bugs may have a significant adverse effect on the sales of our products and our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We have invested in technology companies in the start-up or development stage whose products and technology may not succeed, which may result in a loss of all or substantially all of our investment. We have invested in several privately held companies, including Asia Digital Media and ADML Holdings, Ltd, including its affiliate, Ohana Wireless, Inc. (collectively, “Ohana”). Most of these companies are technology companies in the start-up or development stage, or are companies with technologies and products that are targeted at geographically distant markets. If the demand for the technologies and products offered by these privately held companies materializes slowly, to a minimum extent, or not at all in relevant markets, we could lose all or substantially all of our investment in these companies, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues may decline if we cannot compete successfully in an intensely competitive market. We target our products at the rapidly evolving market for digital identity and information security solutions. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger installed bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and sales resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to react more quickly to emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, certain of our current competitors in particular segments of the security marketplace may in the future broaden or enhance their offerings to provide a more comprehensive solution competing more fully with our functionality. Increased competition and increased market volatility in our industry could result in lower prices, reduced margins or the failure of our products and services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could have a serious adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will not be successful if we do not keep up with the rapid changes in our industry. The emerging market for digital identity and information security products and related services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. To be competitive, we have to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, and be first to market with new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services. Our failure to develop and introduce new products and services successfully on a timely basis and to achieve market acceptance for such products and services could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty managing our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully grow our business. Our ability to manage future growth, if any, will depend upon our ability to: • continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis; and • expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our operations. The geographic dispersal of our operations may make it more difficult to manage our growth. We depend on our key personnel for the success of our business and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business or could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. Our success and our ability to manage our business depend, in large part, upon the efforts and continued service of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material 19 Table of Contents adverse effect on our business and operations. It could be difficult for us to find replacements for our key personnel, as competition for such personnel is intense. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could reduce the market value of our securities. If we fail to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly in the field of information security, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key scientific, technical, sales and managerial employees or that we can attract, motivate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. These challenges are made more severe by our history of operating losses, the employment reductions from our restructurings, and the fact that the exercise price of a majority of outstanding stock options is below the current market price of our stock. If we cannot retain or are unable to hire such key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our intellectual property rights and our ability to protect these rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements, shrink-wrap licenses and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may: • copy aspects of our products; • obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary; or • infringe upon our patents. Policing piracy and other unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly in international markets and as a result of the growing use of the Internet. In addition, third parties might successfully design around our patents or obtain patents that we would need to license or design around. Finally, the protections we have obtained may not be sufficient because: • some courts have held that shrink-wrap licenses, because they are not signed by the licensee, are not enforceable; • our trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and patents may not provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information; and • we may not seek additional patents on our technology or products, and such patents, even if obtained, may not be broad enough to protect our technology or products. Our inability or failure to protect our proprietary rights could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, while actions taken to enforce our intellectual property rights could substantially increase our quarterly expenses. We have been subject to, and may in the future become subject to, intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly and could result in a diversion of management’s attention. As the number of security products in the industry and the functionality of these products further overlaps, software developers and publishers may increasingly become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property or proprietary rights of others. From time to time, we have received notices from third parties either soliciting our interest in obtaining a license under one or more patents owned or licensed by these third parties or suggesting that our products may be infringing one or more patents owned or licensed by these third parties. 20 Table of Contents From time to time, we have received notices from various customers stating that we may be responsible for indemnifying such customers pursuant to indemnification obligations in product license agreements with such customers for alleged infringement of patents assigned to third parties. To date, we are not aware that any customer has filed an action against us for indemnification. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future. Defending or enforcing our intellectual property could be costly and could result in a diversion of management’s attention, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A successful claim against us could also have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which damages are paid. Additionally, as a result of a successful claim, we could potentially be enjoined from using technology that is required for our products to remain competitive, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations for subsequent periods. We may lose access to technology that we license from outside vendors, which loss could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We rely on outside licensors for patent and/or software license rights in technology that is incorporated into and is necessary for the operation of our products. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to have access to such technologies that are or may become important to the functionality of our products. Any inability to continue to procure or use such technology could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to sell some of our products. We rely on partners to integrate our products with their products and to resell our products. Changes in these relationships could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We rely on partners to integrate our products with their products or to maintain adherence to industry standards so that our products will be able to work with them to provide enhanced security attributes. For example, our ability to provide digital signatures on Adobe forms is dependent upon Adobe continuing to allow Entrust to have access to their private Application Programming Interfaces in future releases. In addition, we have resale relationships with companies such as Critical Path, Pointsec and Sun Microsystems/Waveset. Inability to maintain these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. It is possible, as part of our future growth strategy, that we will from time-to-time acquire or make investments in companies, technologies, product solutions or professional services offerings. With respect to these acquisitions, we would face the difficulties of assimilating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and the problems of retaining and motivating key personnel from such businesses. In addition, these acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day business, increase our expenses and adversely impact our results of operations. Any future acquisitions would involve certain other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and incurrence of debt. In addition, these types of transactions often result in charges to earnings for such items as amortization of goodwill or in-process research and development expenses. For example, in June 2004, we acquired intellectual property and certain other assets of AmikaNow! in exchange for $2,676 in cash and $1,428 in guaranteed future payments payable over three years and other acquisition-related costs. In addition, in September 2004, we acquired majority ownership of Entrust Japan for $1.7 million. While management expects to successfully integrate the newly acquired technology and operations, each of the above risks apply to these acquisitions. As a result of our June 2001 and May 2003 restructuring plans, we have made certain assumptions in estimating the accrued restructuring charges. If these assumptions change, they could have a material effect on our reported results. In recent periods, we announced two major restructuring plans in June 2001 and in May 2003 as a result of the slowdown in the global electronics industry and the worldwide economy. The restructuring plans included a 21 Table of Contents workforce reduction, the consolidation of excess facilities, the reassessment of the value of related excess long-lived assets and the discontinuance of non-core products and programs. As a result of the June 2001 restructuring plan, we recorded restructuring and other non-recurring charges, excluding goodwill impairment, of $106.6 million in the second quarter of 2001. Our assessment of the accounting effects of the June 2001 restructuring plan required assumptions in estimating the original accrued restructuring charges, including estimating future recoveries of sublet income from excess facilities, liabilities from employee severances, and costs to exit business activities. Changes in these assumptions, with respect to the accrued restructuring charges for the June 2001 restructuring plan of $25.5 million at December 31, 2005, could have a material effect on our reported results. As a result of the May 2003 restructuring plan, we recorded restructuring charges, excluding impairments, of $8.9 million. Our assessment of the accounting effect of the May 2003 restructuring plan required assumptions in estimating the original incurred and expected restructuring charges of $8.9 million, including estimating liabilities from employee severances, future recoveries of sublet income from excess facilities, and other costs to exit activities. Changes in these assumptions, with respect to the accrued restructuring charges for the May 2003 restructuring plan of $0.4 million at December 31, 2005, could have a material effect on our reported results. We face risks associated with our international operations, which, if not managed properly, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, we may establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and establish relationships with additional partners internationally. This expansion would require significant management attention and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our international sales currently are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, we may increasingly denominate sales in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, our international business may be subject to the following risks: • difficulties in collecting international accounts receivable; • difficulties in obtaining U.S. export licenses, especially for products containing encryption technology; • potentially longer payment cycles for customer payments; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; • introduction of non-tariff barriers and higher duty rates; • difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; • difficulties managing personnel, partners and operations in remote locations; and • increased complexity in global corporate tax structure. Any one of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face risks associated with our investment in Asia, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In total we have invested $3.7 million in Asia Digital Media and $1.5 million in Ohana, including loans to Ohana that converted into equity in that company. Asia Digital Media and Ohana are joint ventures in the start-up or development stage, and may lack the financial resources, licenses, technology and governmental approvals necessary to import, develop or offer for sale in China any commercial product or service. Joint ventures, such as these, also carry risks as a result of potentially conflicting objectives between the joint venture owners including, but not limited to, agreement on business plans, budgets, and key staffing decisions. The success of Asia Digital Media and Ohana depends in large part on conditions in the Chinese market and receipt of government approvals 22 Table of Contents required to export into China and conduct business there. As such, Asia Digital Media and Ohana face several risks including technological risk, competitive risk, risks pertaining to governmental approvals, political risks, currency risks, funding risks and risks of end-user acceptance. For example, if the demand for the technologies and products developed or offered by Asia Digital Media and Ohana materialize slowly, if the businesses fail to achieve important technical development milestones, fail to achieve necessary governmental approvals and licensing requirements, or fail to raise additional money to continue its development plan, we could lose all or substantially all of our investment in Asia Digital Media and Ohana. Any one of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the laws regarding exports of our products further limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to restricted countries, which would result in a loss of revenues. Some of our products are subject to export controls under the laws of the United States, Canada and other countries. The list of products and countries for which exports are restricted, and the relevant regulatory policies, are likely to be revised from time to time. If we cannot obtain required government approvals under these regulations, we may not be able to sell products abroad or make products available for sale internationally via computer networks such as the Internet. Furthermore, United States governmental controls on the export of encryption products and technology may in the future restrict our ability to export some of our products. Our stock price is volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our Common stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, highly volatile and may be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; • new products introduced by, or new contracts entered into by, us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents, copyrights or propriety rights; • conditions and trends in the security industry; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that are in our shareholders’ best interests. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions, including a staggered board of directors that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or may discourage bids to do so. We think these measures enable us to review offers for our shares of Common stock to determine if they are in the best interests of our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Common stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of Common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. 23 Table of Contents 