ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Set forth below are some, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and which could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Prospective and existing investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, and other risks and cautionary statements set forth in this report, in evaluating an investment in our common stock. Risks related to the Pending Acquisition of us by Oracle Failure to complete the merger with Oracle Corporation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. On January 16, 2008, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Oracle Corporation (“Oracle”). Consummation of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, regulatory approvals, including antitrust approvals, and approval by our stockholders. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as currently contemplated under the merger agreement or at all. As a result of the pending merger or if the merger is not consummated: • our investors may not receive $19.375 in cash per share of our common stock which Oracle has agreed to pay in the merger, and our stock price would likely decline; • we are liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the merger; • under some circumstances, we may have to pay a termination fee to Oracle in the amount of $250 million; • the attention of our management and our employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations as they focus on the merger; • our customers may seek to modify or terminate existing agreements, or prospective customers may delay entering into new agreements or purchasing our products as a result of the announcement of the merger, which could cause our revenues to materially decline or any anticipated increases in revenue to be lower than expected; and • our ability to attract new employees and retain our existing employees may be harmed by uncertainties associated with the merger, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and our stock price. Our officers and directors have certain interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, interests of our stockholders. Our officers and directors have certain interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, interests of our stockholders. Our executive officers are parties to employment agreements with BEA, each of which provide severance and other benefits in the case of qualifying terminations of employment in connection with a change of control of BEA, including consummation of the merger. Executive officers and directors of BEA have rights to indemnification and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance that will survive consummation of the merger. Our stockholders should be aware of these interests when considering our Board of Directors’ recommendation to adopt the merger agreement. Stockholders are encouraged to review the section 21 Table of Contents “The Merger—Interests of BEA’s Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger” in the definitive proxy statement filed on March 3, 2008 for more information. We and Oracle may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, the regulatory approvals required to consummate the merger. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon the receipt of all required governmental consents and authorizations, including by the applicable governmental authorities of the European Commission. Complying with requests from such governmental agencies, including requests for additional information and documents, could delay consummation of the merger. In connection with granting these consents and authorizations, governmental authorities may require divestitures of assets or seek to impose conditions on the merger. Such divestitures or conditions may jeopardize or delay completion of the merger. In certain instances, the merger agreement requires us to pay a termination fee of $250 million to Oracle. This payment could affect the decisions of a third party considering making an alternative acquisition proposal to the merger. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we will be required to pay to Oracle a termination fee of $250 million if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. This payment could affect the structure, pricing and terms proposed by a third party seeking to acquire or merge with us and could deter such third party from making a competing acquisition proposal. Purported stockholder class action lawsuits have been filed against us and members of our Board of Directors challenging the merger and an unfavorable judgment or ruling in these lawsuits could prevent or delay the consummation of the merger, result in substantive costs, or both. We are actively defending against several stockholder lawsuits filed in Delaware and California related to the merger agreement with Oracle, all of which require the Company to incur substantial legal fees and expenses. In the Delaware cases, we are defending against plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction enjoining the Special Stockholders Meeting scheduled for April 4, 2008 which will be heard March 26, 2008, and which, if granted, could delay or prevent the merger. At the March 26, 2008 hearing, the plaintiff’s motion was denied by the court. As these actions are in their preliminary stages, it is impossible to predict their outcomes. Risks that May Impact Future Operating Results Pending Completion of the Merger or if the Merger is not Consummated We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, significant fluctuations in our actual or anticipated revenues and operating results, which have prevented us in the past, and may prevent us in the future from meeting securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations and result in a decline in our stock price. Our revenues have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future, which may include declines in quarterly revenues as compared to the previous fiscal quarter and as compared to the same quarterly period in the prior fiscal year, as well as declines in annual revenues as compared to the previous fiscal year. If our revenues, operating results, earnings or future projections are below the levels expected by investors or securities analysts, our stock price is likely to decline. Moreover, even if our total revenues meet investors’ and securities analysts’ expectations, if a component of our total revenues does not meet these expectations, our stock price may decline. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in our future revenues and operating results as a result of many factors, including: • changes, anticipated or not, in the size and timing of customer orders, including the rate of conversion of our forecasted sales “pipeline” into contracts, particularly as we have become more reliant on larger transactions; 22 Table of Contents • our ability to develop, introduce and market, on a timely basis, new products and initiatives, such as our WebLogic Server and WebLogic Platform products, WebLogic Communications Platform products, WebLogic Time & Event Driven, Real-Time and Virtualization products, and our BEA AquaLogic, business process management (“BPM”) and service oriented architecture (“SOA”) products; • the rate of customer acceptance of our new products and products to be introduced in the future, and any order delays caused by customer evaluations of these new products; • periodic difficulties or changes in the domestic or international economic, business or political environment, particularly affecting the technology industry or industries from which we derive a significant portion of our revenues, such as the telecommunications industry, including but not limited to corporate or consumer confidence in the economy, uncertainties arising out of possible future terrorist activities, military and security actions in Iraq and the Middle East in general, and geopolitical instability such as in parts of Asia, all of which could increase the likelihood that customers will unexpectedly delay, cancel or reduce the size of orders; • the structure, timing and integration of acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and possible disruption of our current business; • costs associated with acquisitions, including expenses charged for any impaired acquired intangible assets and goodwill; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have an adverse impact on our international revenue, particularly in EMEA, if the Euro or British Pound were to weaken significantly against the U.S. dollar; • the performance of our international business, which accounts for approximately one-half of our consolidated revenues; • changes in the mix of products and services that we sell or the channels through which they are distributed; • changes in our competitors’ product offerings, marketing programs and pricing policies, and customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products and product enhancements from us or our competitors; • any increased price sensitivity by our customers, particularly in the face of periodic uneven economic conditions and increased competition, including open source or free competitive software; • the lengthy sales cycle for our products, particularly with regard to WebLogic Communications Platform, WebLogic Platform, and Aqualogic sales, which typically involve more comprehensive solutions that may require us to provide a significant level of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products and may result in more detailed customer evaluations, and the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchase and budget cycles; • our ability to control costs and expenses, particularly in the face of periodic difficult economic conditions; • loss of key personnel or inability to recruit and hire qualified additional or replacement key personnel; • the degree of success, if any, of our strategy to further establish and expand our relationships with distributors; • the terms and timing of financing activities; • potential fluctuations in demand or prices of our products and services; • technological changes in computer systems and environments, which could render our products less competitive or obsolete; • our ability to meet our customers’ service requirements; and 23 Table of Contents • the seasonality of our sales, particularly license orders, which typically significantly adversely affects our revenue in our first quarter. In addition to fluctuations in our operating results, our stock price is also subject to many factors outside of our control, including the substantial volatility generally associated with Internet, software and technology stocks, and broader market trends unrelated to our performance, such as the substantial declines in the prices of many such stocks from 2000 through 2003, as well as market declines related to terrorist activities and military actions. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results are difficult to forecast because of the volatility of our license revenues. A substantial portion of our license revenues has been derived from large orders. Reliance on large license transactions increases the risk of fluctuation in quarterly results because the unexpected loss of a small number of larger orders can cause a significant revenue shortfall. If we cannot generate a sufficient number of large customer orders, convert a sufficient number of development orders into orders for large deployments, or if customers delay or cancel such orders in a particular quarter, it may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, more significantly on a percentage basis, our net income or loss in that quarter. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all potential transactions, including the estimated closing date and estimated dollar amount of each transaction. We aggregate these estimates periodically to generate a sales pipeline and then evaluate the pipeline to forecast sales and identify trends in our business. This pipeline analysis and related estimates of revenue have in recent periods and may in future periods differ significantly from actual revenues in a particular reporting period. Moreover, we typically receive and fulfill most of our orders within the same quarter, and a substantial number of our orders, particularly our larger transactions, are typically received in the last month of each quarter, with a concentration of such orders at the end of the quarter. As a result, even though we may have substantial backlog at the end of a prior quarter and positive business indicators such as sales “pipeline” reports about customer demand during a quarter, we may not learn of revenue shortfalls until the final days of the quarter. Not only could such shortfalls significantly harm our revenues, they could substantially harm our earnings because we may not become aware of such shortfalls in time to adjust our cost structure to respond to a variation in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts. Our inability to respond to a variation in the pipeline or in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts in a timely manner, or at all, could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and thereby harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, periodic adverse economic conditions, particularly those related to the technology industry, as well as the economic and political uncertainties arising out of the ongoing U.S. military activity in Iraq, recent and possible future terrorist activities, other potential military and security actions in the Middle East, and instability in markets in other parts of the world, may increase the likelihood that customers will unexpectedly delay, cancel or reduce orders, resulting in revenue shortfalls. The seasonality of our sales typically has a significant adverse effect on our revenues in our first fiscal quarter. Our first quarter revenues, particularly our license revenues, are typically lower than revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter. We believe this is because our commission plans and other sales incentives are structured for annual performance and contain bonus provisions based on annual quotas that typically are triggered in the later quarters in a year. In addition, most of our customers begin a new fiscal year on January 1 and it is common for capital expenditures to be lower in an organization’s first quarter than in its fourth quarter. We anticipate that the negative impact of seasonality on our first quarter will continue. Moreover, 24 Table of Contents because of this seasonality, even if we have a very strong fourth quarter in a particular year, the initial quarter in the next year could nevertheless still be weak on a year-over-year comparative basis, as well as on a sequential basis. This risk remains even if the amount of our deferred revenue and backlog is substantial at the close of the immediately preceding fourth quarter. This seasonality may harm our revenues and other operating results in our first quarter and possibly subsequent quarters as well, particularly if the seasonal impact is more pronounced than we expect. The lengthy sales cycle for our products makes our revenues susceptible to substantial fluctuations. Many of our customers use our products to implement large, sophisticated applications that are critical to their business, and their purchases are often part of their implementation of a Web-based computing environment, or SOA. Customers evaluating our software products face complex decisions regarding alternative approaches to the integration of enterprise applications, competitive product offerings, implementation of SOA, rapidly changing software technologies and standards, and limited internal resources due to other information systems demands. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle for our products is lengthy and unpredictable, and potential orders are subject to delays or cancellation for reasons over which we have little or no control. In addition, we continue to rely on a significant number of million and multimillion dollar license transactions. In some cases, the larger size of the transactions has resulted in more extended customer evaluation and procurement processes, which in turn have lengthened the overall sales cycle for our products. Periodic economic difficulties in our key markets have also contributed to increasing the length of our sales cycle. Finally, the introduction of AquaLogic and other products and implementation of our products for SOA have contributed to a longer sales cycle due to the fact that they offer a more comprehensive solution that may require us to provide a significant level of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products, and may result in lengthier customer evaluations. Delays or failures to complete large orders and sales in a particular quarter could significantly reduce revenue that quarter, as well as subsequent quarters over which revenue for the sale would otherwise be recognized. We have restructured, and may in the future restructure, our sales force, which can be disruptive. We continue to rely heavily on our direct sales force. In recent years, we have restructured or made other adjustments to our sales force in response to factors such as conditions in the information technology industry, our expenses related to revenues, management changes, product changes and other external and internal considerations. Changes in the structure of the sales force and sales force management have resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity that may have affected revenues in one or more quarters. If we continue to restructure our sales force, then the transition issues associated with restructuring the sales force may recur. Such restructuring or associated transition issues can be disruptive and adversely impact our business and operating results. Any failure to maintain on-going sales through distribution channels could result in lower revenues, and increasing sales through distribution channels could result in lower margins on our license revenues. To date, we have sold our products principally through our direct sales force, as well as through indirect sales channels, such as computer hardware companies, packaged application software developers, independent software vendors (“ISVs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), consultants, software tool vendors and distributors. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on our success in maintaining existing relationships and further establishing and expanding relationships with our indirect sales channels. We need to carefully monitor the development and scope of our indirect sales channels and create appropriate pricing, sales force compensation and other distribution parameters to help ensure these indirect channels do not conflict with or curtail our direct sales. If we invest resources in these types of expansion and our overall revenues do not correspondingly increase, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we already rely on 25 Table of Contents formal and informal relationships with a number of SIs and consulting firms to enhance our sales, support, service and marketing efforts, particularly with respect to implementation and support of our products as well as lead generation and assistance in the sales process. Many such firms have similar, and often more established, relationships with our principal competitors. It is possible that these and other third parties will not provide the level and quality of service required to meet the needs of our customers, or that we will not be able to maintain an effective, long-term relationship with these third parties. However, because we achieve lower margins on license revenue sales through distribution channels, an increase in our sales through distribution channels could result in lower margins on our license revenues. If we do not compete effectively, our revenues and operating margins will decline. The market for application server, integration and SOA software, and related software infrastructure, and specialty applications in communications, time and event driven, real-time and virtualization products and services is highly competitive. Our competitors are diverse and offer a variety of solutions directed at various segments of this marketplace. Our competitors include several companies, such as IBM, Oracle Corporation (which is in the process of acquiring us), SAP AG and Microsoft, which compete in a number of our product lines. All of these competitors have longer operating histories; significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; significantly greater name recognition; a broader product offering; a larger installed base of customers than we do; and well-established relationships with our current and potential customers. In addition, many competitors are able to bundle competing products with their other software offerings at a discounted price. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of their current and prospective customers. Further, new competitors, or alliances among current and new competitors, may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Such competition could harm our ability to sell additional software licenses and maintenance, consulting and support services on terms favorable to us. Further, competitive pressures and open source availability of functionally competitive software could require us to reduce the price of our products and related services, which could harm our business. We may not be able to compete successfully, and any failure to do so would harm our business. Because the technological, market and industry conditions in our business can change very rapidly, if we do not successfully adapt our products to these changes, our revenue and profits will be harmed. The market for our products and services is highly fragmented, competitive with alternative computing architectures, and characterized by continuing technological developments, evolving and competing industry standards, and changing customer requirements. The introduction of products based upon new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards, or changes in customer requirements could result in a decline in the markets for our existing products or render them obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our success depends upon our ability to timely and effectively enhance existing products, respond to changing customer requirements, and develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and initiatives that keep pace with technological and market developments and emerging industry standards, as well as our ability to educate and train our sales force and indirect sales channels on our new or enhanced products, initiatives and technologies. It is possible that our products will not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace and that we will not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our existing products or new products on a timely basis. Failure to develop, acquire and introduce new products, or enhancements to existing products, in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or lack of customer acceptance of our 26 Table of Contents products, will harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our success is increasingly dependent on our strategic partners’ ability to successfully develop and integrate their software with those of our products with which their software interoperates or is bundled, integrated or marketed. If their software performs poorly, contains errors or defects or is otherwise unreliable, or does not provide the features and benefits expected or required, it could lower the demand for our products and services, result in negative publicity or loss of our reputation, and adversely affect our revenues and other operating results. If the markets for application servers, application platforms, application integration, portal, BPM, SOA and related application infrastructure software and Web services decline or do not grow as quickly as we expect, our revenues will be harmed. We sell our products and services in the application server, application platform, application integration, portal, BPM, SOA and related application and service infrastructure markets. These markets are characterized by continuing technological developments, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. Our success is dependent in large part on acceptance of our products by large customers with substantial legacy mainframe systems, customers establishing or building out their presence on the Web for commerce, and developers of Web-based commerce applications and SOA. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on the continued growth in the use of the Web to run software applications and continued growth in the number of companies extending their mainframe-based, mission-critical applications to an enterprise-wide distributed computing environment and to the Internet through the use of application server and integration technology and SOA. The markets for application server, application platform, portal, application integration, web services, BPM and SOA and related services and technologies may not grow and could decline. Even if they do grow, they may grow more slowly than we anticipate, particularly in view of periodic economic difficulties affecting the technology sector in the United States, Asia and Europe. If these markets fail to grow, grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, or decline, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our revenues are derived primarily from a single group of similar and related products and services, and a decline in demand or prices for these products or services could harm our operating results. We currently derive the majority of our license and service revenues from BEA WebLogic Server, Tuxedo and our AquaLogic products, and from related products and services. We expect these products and services to continue to account for the majority of our revenues in the immediate future. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for BEA WebLogic Server, Tuxedo, AquaLogic products or related services, such as periodic difficult economic conditions, future terrorist activities or military actions, any decline in overall market demand, competition, product performance or technological change, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In fiscal 2007, with regard to Tuxedo, we experienced a decline in the percentage of our license revenue generated by Tuxedo, as well as a decline in the absolute dollar amount of revenue generated by Tuxedo. In fiscal 2008, we experienced a decline in the percentage of our license revenue generated by WebLogic, as well as a decline in absolute dollar amount of revenue generated by WebLogic. If this trend were to continue or worsen, it would have an adverse impact on our revenue, profit and other operating results. Our future growth, if any, is expected to be achieved through the implementation and introduction of our new product initiatives in SOA, AquaLogic, time and event-driven architectures, real-time applications, virtualization, and WebLogic Communications Platform. Many of these new product initiatives have substantial, entrenched competitors with greater resources and experience in these product areas. Other product initiatives are in nascent markets, and it is unclear when or if these markets will develop into substantial markets or whether we will serve those markets well. There can be no assurances that all or any of these new products will be successful and contribute to profitability or growth. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may use our technology and trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenues and increase our costs. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. It is possible that other companies could successfully challenge the validity or scope of our patents and that our patents may not provide a competitive advantage to us. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors and corporate partners and into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. In particular, we have in the past provided certain hardware OEMs with access to our source code, and any unauthorized publication or proliferation of our source code could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. It is difficult for us to police unauthorized use of our products, and although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy is a persistent problem. In addition, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. The protection of our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors could independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents and other intellectual property rights that we hold. Third parties could assert that our software products and services infringe their intellectual property rights, which could expose us to increased costs and litigation. We have been and continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including claims currently being asserted that our products infringe certain patent rights. It is possible that third parties, including competitors, technology partners and other technology companies, could successfully claim that our current or future products, whether developed internally or acquired, infringe their rights, including their trade secret, copyright and patent rights. These types of claims, with or without merit, can cause costly litigation that requires significant management time, as well as impede our sales efforts due to any uncertainty as to the outcome, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. These types of claims, with or without merit, could also cause us to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts, cease offering any subject technology or products altogether, require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, compel us to license software under unfavorable terms, and damage our ability to sell products due to any uncertainty generated as to intellectual property ownership. If required, we may not be able to obtain such royalty or license agreements, or obtain them on terms acceptable to us, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if we are unable to ship key products. If our products contain software defects, it could harm our revenues and expose us to litigation. The software products we offer are internally complex and, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects, especially when we first introduce them. We may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects or errors. Any defects or errors could also cause damage to our reputation and result in loss of revenues, product returns or order cancellations, lack of market acceptance of our products, or increased service and warranty costs. Accordingly, any defects or errors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, sale and support of our products entails the risk of such claims, which could be substantial in light of our 28 Table of Contents customers’ use of such products in mission-critical applications. If a claimant brings a product liability claim against us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products interoperate with many parts of complicated computer systems, such as mainframes, servers, personal computers, application software, databases, operating systems and data transformation software. Failure of any one of these parts could cause all or large parts of computer systems to fail. In such circumstances, it may be difficult to determine which part failed, and it is likely that customers will bring a lawsuit against several suppliers. Even if our software is not at fault, we could suffer material expense and material diversion of management time in defending any such lawsuits. If we do not maintain our relationships with third-party vendors, interruptions in the supply of our products may result. Portions of our products incorporate software that was developed and is maintained by third-party software vendors. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated. Any significant interruption in the supply of these products could adversely impact our sales unless and until we can secure another source at costs which are acceptable to us. We depend in part on these third parties’ abilities to enhance their current products, to develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The inability to replace, or any significant delay in the replacement of, functionality provided by third-party software in our products could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations expose us to greater management, collections, currency, export licensing, intellectual property, tax, regulatory and other risks. Revenues from markets outside of the Americas has accounted for approximately one-half of our total revenues over the past several years, and we expect these markets to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. We sell our products and services through a network of branches and subsidiaries located in 38 countries worldwide. In addition, we also market our products through distributors. We believe that our success depends upon continued expansion of our international operations. Our international business is subject to a number of risks, including greater difficulties in maintaining and enforcing U.S. accounting and public reporting standards, greater difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel sufficiently experienced in U.S. accounting and public reporting standards, unexpected changes in regulatory practices and tariffs, longer collection cycles, seasonality, potential changes in export licensing and tax laws, and greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights. Also, the impact of fluctuating exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business can significantly impact our revenues. The EMEA region has historically accounted for, and we expect in the future will continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenues. If the value of the U.S. dollar relative to European currencies were to significantly increase, it would have an adverse impact on our revenues, profits and other operating results. Also, we are periodically subject to tax audits by government agencies in foreign jurisdictions. To date, the outcomes of these audits have not had a material impact on us. It is possible, however, that future audits could result in significant assessments against us or our employees for transfer taxes, payroll taxes, income taxes, or other taxes as well as related employee and other claims which could adversely effect our operating results. General economic and political conditions in these foreign markets, including the military action in the Middle East, geopolitical instabilities in other parts of the world and a backlash against U.S. based companies may also impact our international revenues, as such conditions may cause decreases in demand or impact our ability to collect payment from our customers. There can be no assurances that these factors and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international revenues and consequently on our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, could cause us to recognize lower revenue and profits or to defer recognition of revenue. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Moreover, policies, guidelines and interpretations related to revenue recognition, accounting for acquisitions, income taxes, facilities consolidation charges, allowances for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation and other financial reporting matters require us to make difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. To the extent that our judgment is incorrect, it could result in an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. Some of these matters are also among topics currently under re-examination by accounting standard setters and regulators. These standard setters and regulators could promulgate interpretations and guidance that could result in material and potentially adverse changes to our accounting policies. Although we use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in larger license transactions. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of revenue on the license. While we believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants continues to issue implementation guidelines for these standards and the accounting profession continues to discuss a wide range of potential interpretations. Additional implementation guidelines, and changes in interpretations of such guidelines, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices that could cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or to recognize lower revenue and profits. If we cannot successfully integrate our past and future acquisitions, our revenues may decline and expenses may increase. From our inception in January 1994, we have made a substantial number of strategic acquisitions. From June 2005 to August 2006, we acquired Plumtree Software, Inc., a publicly traded software company, as well as six smaller companies in targeted cash acquisitions, each of which has presented an integration challenge to our business operations. In addition, integration of acquired companies, divisions and products involves the assimilation of potentially conflicting products and operations, including the maintenance of effective internal controls, which diverts the attention of our management team and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results in future quarters. It is possible that we may not achieve any of the intended financial or strategic benefits of these transactions. Further, while we may desire to make additional acquisitions in the future, there may not be suitable companies, divisions or products available for acquisition. Our acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the risk that we will not successfully assimilate the acquired operations and products, retain key employees of the acquired companies, or execute successfully the strategy driving the acquisition. There are also risks relating to the diversion of our management’s attention, and difficulties and uncertainties in our ability to maintain the key business relationships that we or the acquired companies have established. In addition, we may have product liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products. Acquisitions also expose us to the risk of claims by terminated employees, shareholders of the acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction. Finally, if we undertake future acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur additional debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses, utilize substantial portions of our cash, and acquire intangible assets that would result in significant future amortization expense. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents On June 29, 2001, the FASB pronounced under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“FAS 142”), that purchased goodwill should not be amortized, but rather, should be periodically reviewed for impairment. Such impairment could be caused by internal factors as well as external factors beyond our control. The FASB has further determined that at the time goodwill is considered impaired, an amount equal to the impairment loss should be charged as an operating expense in the statement of income. The timing of such an impairment (if any) of goodwill acquired in past and future transactions is uncertain and difficult to predict. If future events cause additional impairment of any intangible assets acquired in our past or future acquisitions, we may have to record additional charges relating to such assets sooner than we expect which would cause our profits to decline. We are required to determine whether goodwill and any assets acquired in past acquisitions have been impaired in accordance with FAS 142 and, if so, charge such impairment as an expense. For example, in the quarter ended October 31, 2001, we took an asset impairment charge of $80.1 million related to past acquisitions. At January 31, 2008, we had remaining net goodwill and net acquired intangible assets of approximately $265.7 million. In the quarter ended April 30, 2007, we took an additional charge of approximately $3.8 million in connection with impairment of intangibles and goodwill related to our acquisition of Connectera. If we are required to take such additional impairment charges, the amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face risks in connection with Plumtree’s government contracts which may adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks associated with the businesses and operations of Plumtree, which we acquired on October 20, 2005. Plumtree derived a significant portion of its software license and service revenue from government customers. We have assumed Plumtree’s business with the United States government and other domestic and international public entities, including the risks associated with such business, such as the susceptibility to unpredictable governmental budgetary and policy changes. Sales to government entities can be adversely affected by budgetary cycles, changes in policy and other political events outside of our control, such as the outbreak of hostilities overseas and domestic terrorism. Governments often retain the ability to cancel contracts at their convenience in times of emergency or under other circumstances. Some of Plumtree’s government customers have experienced budgetary constraints due to decreased federal funding to state and local governments. Additionally, the government may require special intellectual property rights and other license terms generally more favorable to the customer than those typical in non-government contracts. These requirements involve more licensing cost and increased contract risk for us. The government procurement process in general can be long and complex and being a government vendor subjects us to additional regulations. The ongoing U.S. military activity in Iraq and any terrorist activities could adversely affect our revenues and operations. The U.S. military activity in Iraq, terrorist activities and related military and security operations have in the past disrupted economic activity throughout the United States and much of the world. This significantly adversely impacted our operations and our ability to generate revenues in the past and may again in the future. An unfavorable course of events in the future related to the ongoing U.S. military activity in Iraq; any other military or security operations, particularly with regard to the Middle East; any future terrorist activities; or geopolitical tension in other parts of the world could have a similar or worse effect on our operating results, particularly if such attacks or operations occur in the last month or weeks of our quarter or are significant enough to further weaken the U.S. or global economy. In particular, such activities and operations could result in reductions in information technology spending, order deferrals, and reductions or cancellations of customer orders for our products and services. 31 Table of Contents An unfavorable government review of our income and payroll tax returns or changes in our effective tax rates could adversely affect our operating results. Our operations are subject to income, payroll and indirect taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. We exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for these taxes, and in the ordinary course of our business there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our provision for income taxes is based on jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. It is possible that these positions may be challenged which may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2005 through 2006 fiscal years are currently under examination by the IRS. In addition, certain of our U.S. payroll tax returns (primarily related to taxes associated with stock option exercises), and various state and foreign tax returns are under examination by the applicable taxing authorities. While we believe that we have made adequate provisions related to the audits of these tax returns, the final determination of our obligations may exceed the amounts provided for by us in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our cash investments in money market, government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At January 31, 2008, we had $993.7 million in cash and cash equivalents, $3.4 million in restricted cash and $525.5 million in short and long-term investments. We have invested these amounts in U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by stresses and disruptions in the financial markets stemming from U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults and their follow-on effects. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have adverse impacts on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Risk Factors Related to Corporate Governance Matters and our Stock Option Review If we fail to maintain effective internal controls or remediate any future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and our stock price. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting is essential for us to produce reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As a result of the Audit Committee’s review into our historical stock option grant practices and related matters, we identified past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of them, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Any future failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our operating results, result in a material misstatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Failure to comply with applicable corporate governance requirements may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC, affect our Nasdaq listing, and adversely affect our stock price. Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as Nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members 32 Table of Contents and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations. The matters relating to the review of certain historical stock option grants could continue to have an adverse effect on our financial results. In 2006 and 2007, the Audit Committee conducted a review that concluded that, primarily from fiscal 1998 through fiscal 2006, a large number of stock options were not accounted for correctly in our financial statements. We have and could continue to incur substantial charges in future periods in connection with the results of the review that are not compensation charges. Such charges could include, but are not limited to, payments to employees or taxing authorities arising from potential income tax liabilities pursuant to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. The review diverted the attention of our Board and management team from the operation of our business and has proven to be a significant distraction. In addition, we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the review, which have had and could continue to have a negative effect on our financial results. In addition, the inquiries by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) into our historical stock option grant practices are ongoing. We have fully cooperated with the SEC and intend to continue to do so. The period of time necessary to resolve these inquiries is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical stock option grant practices. These inquiries will likely require us to continue to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, and could result in actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against the Company and the payment of significant fines and penalties by the Company, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. We have been named as a party to a number of shareholder derivative lawsuits relating to our historical stock option grant practices, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. This litigation could become time consuming and expensive and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with our historical stock option grant practices and resulting restatements, a number of derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and officers purporting to assert claims on the Company’s behalf. There may be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. If these lawsuits become time consuming and expensive, or if there are unfavorable outcomes in any of these cases, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage will not cover our total liabilities and expenses in these lawsuits, in part because we have a significant deductible on certain aspects of the coverage. In addition, subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the review of our historical stock option grant practices and the related litigation and government inquiries. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. In addition to the possibilities that there may be additional governmental actions and shareholder lawsuits against us, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. These lawsuits may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 