D. Risk Factors Envoy’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. In addition, risk and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect its business. Risks Related to Envoy’s Business and Industry The Company has a limited number of large clients. The Company receives a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of large clients. The loss of any such clients could adversely impact the Company’s prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations and its business depend on its relationship with a limited number of large clients. Set forth below is the percentage of net revenue during the fiscal year 7 ended September 30, 2008 for each of the Company’s clients that accounted for 10% or more of its net revenue: Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2008 Client The Great Atlantic and Pacific Company 22 % Dubai Maritime City Retail Development LLC 19 % McDonald’s Restaurants of Canada Limited 15 % Meijer, Inc. 12 % Wal-Mart Canada Corp. 10 % The Company expects its reliance on a limited number of clients will continue in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its historical rate of growth or its current level of revenue derived from any client in the future. The Company is dependent on its key personnel. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to hire and retain key senior management and skilled technical, client service and creative personnel able to create and maintain solid relationships with clients. An inability to hire or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is exposed to the risks of doing business internationally. The Company’s operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating in different countries. These include, but are not limited to risks regarding: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • restrictions on repatriation of earnings; and • changes in the political or economic conditions of a specific country or region, particularly in emerging markets. The occurrence of any of these events or conditions could adversely affect the Company’s ability to increase or maintain its operations in various countries. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to currency risk through its activities in the United States, Middle East and Europe. Unfavourable changes in the exchange rate may affect the operating results of the Company. The Company does not actively use derivative instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency risk. However, dependent on the nature, amount and timing of foreign currency receipts and payments, the Company may from time to time enter into foreign currency contracts to mitigate the associated risks. Market rate fluctuations could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to market risk through the risk of loss of value in Envoy’s portfolios resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity 8 prices. The Company is required to mark to market its held-for-trading investments at the end of each reporting period. This process could result in significant write-downs of the Company’s investments over one or more reporting periods, particularly during periods of overall market instability, which would have a significant unfavourable effect on the Company’s financial position The Company may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future investments. The Company regularly reviews investment opportunities and as part of the review, the Company conducts business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in any particular transaction. Despite the Company’s efforts, it may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, it might not realize the intended advantages of any given investment and may not identify all of the risks relating to the investment. If the Company fails to realize the expected benefits from one or more investments, or does not identify all of the risks associated with a particular investment, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to credit risk. The Company manages its credit risk with respect to accounts receivable by acting as an agent for its customers, by dealing primarily with large creditworthy customers and by billing whenever possible in advance of rendering services or making commitments. The Company had one customer who represented 32% of accounts receivable as at September 30, 2008, and one customer who represented 19% of accounts receivable as at September 30, 2007. Should the Company fail to efficiently manage its outstanding accounts receivable, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected. Certain of the Company’s financial assets, including cash and cash equivalents are exposed to the risk of financial loss occurring as a result of default of a counterparty on its obligations to the Company. The Company may, from time to time, invest in debt obligations. The Company is also exposed, in the normal course of business, to credit risk from the sale of its investments and advances to investee companies. The Company may need to raise additional capital to grow its business, which it may not be able to do. The Company’s future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict because they depend on numerous factors, including the success of its existing services, attracting and maintaining clients, as well as competing market developments. As a result, the Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash from its operations to meet additional working capital requirements, support additional capital expenditures or take advantage of investment or acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, the Company may need to raise additional capital in the future. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions and its operating performance. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive for the Company. If the Company raises additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative equity ownership 9 of its existing investors could be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. If the Company raises additional funds through debt financing, it might incur significant borrowing costs. If the Company is unable to raise additional funds when needed, or on terms acceptable to it, the Company’s ability to operate and grow its business could be impeded. The Company is subject to recessionary economic cycles. The marketing and communications industry is cyclical and as a result it is subject to downturns in general economic conditions and changes in client business and marketing budgets. Such downturns in the economic cycle may have material adverse effects on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may be subject to certain regulations that could restrict the Company’s activities. From time to time, governments, government agencies and industry self- regulatory bodies in Canada, the United States, the European Union and other countries in which the Company operates have adopted statutes, regulations and rulings that directly or indirectly affect the activities of the Company and its clients. For further discussion of such regulations, see the discussion in the Government Regulations section under Item 4.B. Though the Company does not expect any existing or proposed regulations to materially adversely impact the Company’s business, the Company is unable to estimate the effect on its future operations of the application of existing statutes or regulations or the extent or nature of future regulatory action. The Company competes for clients in a highly competitive industry, which may reduce market share and decrease profits. The marketing and communication services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. The Company’s principal competitors are large multinational communications services companies, as well as regional and national branding and marketing services firms. Many of the Company’s competitors have larger client bases and significantly greater financial, marketing, public relations, revenues and other resources than the Company does. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete effectively against these companies, and the competition for clients against such current and future competitors may reduce the Company’s market share and decrease profits. Risks related to the Company’s common shares Because the Company is a Canadian company, it may be difficult to enforce liabilities against the Company based solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. The Company was organized under the laws of the Province of Ontario, and its principal executive offices are located in Toronto, Ontario. Many of its directors, controlling persons and officers are residents of Canada and a substantial portion of their assets and a majority of the Company’s assets are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult to enforce against the Company or any of its directors, controlling persons, or officers, liabilities based solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. 10 The Company believes that it is a Passive Foreign Investment Company, which may have adverse tax consequences for the Company’s shareholders in the United States. Under U.S. federal income tax laws, the Company believes that it is a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), which may have adverse tax consequences for the Company’s shareholders in the United States. U.S. shareholders are urged to read the section titled “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” in Item 10 of this Form 20-F and to consult their tax advisors concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of holding the common shares of a PFIC. 