ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Arising from the Reliability of Our Power Plants and Transmission and Distribution Equipment Operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor disputes, stray voltage and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of those facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. Operation of our power plants below expected capacity levels could result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. Unplanned outages may require us to incur significant replacement power costs. Moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. OE, CEI, and TE are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback agreements for certain generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render these facilities worthless. Although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, OE, CEI and TE each have a maximum exposure to loss under these provisions of approximately $1 billion. We remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital and other resources. Failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including equipment failure and weather, could adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and maintenance costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. 19 Changes in Commodity Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Profit Margins While much of our generation currently serves customers under retail rates set by regulatory bodies, we also purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets. Increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal and natural gas) can affect our profit margins in both competitive and non-competitive markets. Changes in the market prices of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply PLR obligations in Ohio and Pennsylvania. Electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time for a variety of reasons, including: · changing weather conditions or seasonality; · changes in electricity usage by our customers; · illiquidity in wholesale power and other markets; · transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; · availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; · changes in supply and demand for energy commodities; · changes in power production capacity; · outages at our power production facilities or those of our competitors; · changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products; and · natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events. Nuclear Generation Involves Risks that Include Uncertainties Relating to Health and Safety, Additional Capital Costs, the Adequacy of Insurance Coverage and Nuclear Plant Decommissioning FirstEnergy is subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: · the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; · limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States; · uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and · uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed operation. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. FirstEnergy’s nuclear facilities are insured under NEIL policies issued for each plant. Under these policies, up to $2.75 billion of insurance coverage is provided for property damage and decontamination and decommissioning costs. We have also obtained approximately $1.7 billion of insurance coverage for replacement power costs. Under these policies, we can be assessed a maximum of approximately $80 million for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year that are in excess of accumulated funds available to the insurer for paying losses. 20 Regulatory Changes in the Electric Industry Could Affect Our Competitive Position and Result in Unrecoverable Costs Adversely Affecting Our Business and Results of Operations As a result of the actions taken by state legislative bodies over the last few years, changes in the electric utility business have occurred and are continuing to take place in states throughout the United States, including Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. These changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way integrated utilities conduct their business. Increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts, including but not limited to, the implementation by regulators of periodic competitive bid processes for generation supply, could have an adverse financial impact on us and consequently on our results of operations. Increased competition could result in additional pressure to lower prices, including the price of electricity, potentially resulting in impairment of assets, loss of retail customers, lower profit margins and increased costs of capital. We cannot predict the extent or timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. The FERC and the U.S. Congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. If the restructuring and deregulation efforts result in increased competition or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or re-regulate our business or the industry. We Are Exposed to Operational, Price and Credit Risks Associated With Selling and Marketing Products in the Power Markets That We Do Not Always Completely Hedge Against We purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs authorized by the FERC, and also enter into short-term agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we would be required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. We may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. Complex and Changing Government Regulations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations We are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. Changes in or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. On August 8, 2005 President Bush signed into law the EPACT. This federal legislation will affect various aspects of electric generation, transmission and distribution. One of the provisions of the new legislation gives the FERC the authority to certify an ERO that will establish and enforce mandatory bulk power reliability standards, subject to FERC review and approval. The EPACT repealed PUHCA effective February 8, 2006. Some of PUHCA’s consumer protection authority have been transferred to the FERC and state utility commissions. The repeal of PUHCA and the impact of this legislation and its implementation on both a federal and state level could have a significant impact on our operations. Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of Compliance with Future Environmental Laws Could Adversely Affect Cash Flow and Profitability Certain of our subsidiaries’ operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance, upgrading, remediation and permitting at all of our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. If the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Moreover, changes in environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. Because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. Our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. If FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. 21 There have been recent changes in the EPA’s final CAIR, CAMR and CAVR. As a result of those changes the states have been given substantial discretion in developing their own rules to implement these programs. In addition, both the CAIR and the CAMR have been challenged in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. As a result, the ultimate requirements of these rules may not be known for several years and may depart significantly from the current rules. If the final rules are remanded by the Court, if states elect not to participate in the various federal programs under the rules, or if the states elect to impose additional requirements on individual units that are already subject to the CAIR, the CAMR and/or the CAVR, our costs of compliance could increase significantly and could have an adverse effect on future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Alternatively, if the final rules are remanded by the Court and their implementation is postponed, we could be competitively disadvantaged because we are currently obligated to comply with essentially this same level of emission controls as a result of our settlement of the New Source Review Litigation related to our W. H. Sammis Plant. There Are Uncertainties Relating to Our Participation in the PJM and MISO Regional Transmission Organizations Market rules that govern the operation of RTOs could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission constraints and attendant congestion costs. The prices in day-ahead and real-time RTO markets have been subject to price volatility. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, have also increased. The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time which could affect our costs or revenues. We are incurring significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, and may be limited by state retail rate caps with respect to the price at which power can be sold to retail customers. While RTO rates for transmission service are designed to be revenue-neutral, our revenues from customers to whom we currently provide transmission services may not reflect all of the administrative and market-related costs imposed under the RTO tariff due to state retail rate caps. In addition, we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than our internal planning process. Because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how RTOs will ultimately develop and operate or what region they will cover, and whether state regulatory commissions will permit full and timely recovery of RTO or market-imposed costs, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing RTO developments may have on us. Weather Conditions such as Tornadoes, Hurricanes, Ice Storms and Droughts, as Well as Seasonal Temperature Variations Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. In our service areas, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. As a result, overall operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, storms, ice, droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. We Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks Related to the Economic Cycles of the Electric Utility Industry Our business follows the economic cycles of our customers. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affects the markets in which we operate and negatively influences our energy operations. Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns will reduce overall electricity sales and lessen our cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production, resulting in less consumption of electricity. Economic conditions also impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts receivable. The Continuing Availability and Operation of Generating Units is Dependent on Retaining the Necessary Licenses, Permits, and Operating Authority from Governmental Entities, Including the NRC We are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. We Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with the Availability of Trained and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing Requirements Workforce demographic issues challenge employers nationwide and are of particular concern to the electric utility industry. The median age of utility workers is significantly higher than the national average. Today, nearly one-half of the industry’s workforce is age 45 or higher. Consequently, we face the difficult challenge of finding ways to retain our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments. 22 Our Risk Management Policies Relating to Energy and Fuel Prices, and Counterparty Credit are by Their Very Nature Risk Related, and We Could Suffer Economic Losses Despite Such Policies We attempt to manage the market risk inherent in our energy and fuel and debt positions. We have implemented procedures to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge against all of our exposures in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. For instance, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. In addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. We also face credit risks that parties with whom we contract could default in their performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at the time of contract. Although we have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not experience counterparty non-performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. If counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices. In that event, our financial results would likely be adversely affected. Interest Rates and/or a Credit Ratings Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our Financing Costs and Our Ability to Access Capital We have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates as we plan to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. Interest rates could change in significant ways as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results. We rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. A downgrade in our credit ratings from the nationally-recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as in place of letters of credit and other guarantees. A ratings downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. A ratings downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. Our senior unsecured debt ratings from S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch are investment grade. The current ratings outlook from S&P is stable and the ratings outlook from Moody’s and Fitch is positive. We Must Rely on Cash From Our Subsidiaries We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash needs are dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. Those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. We May Ultimately Incur Liability in Connection with Federal Proceedings On December 10, 2004, FirstEnergy received a letter from the United States Attorney’s Office stating that FENOC is a target of the federal grand jury investigation into alleged false statements made to the NRC in the Fall of 2001 in response to NRC Bulletin 2001-01. On January 20, 2006, FENOC announced that it had entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Ohio and the Environmental Crimes Section of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice (collectively, the “Department”) related to certain statements made by FENOC employees to the NRC during the period September 3, 2001 through November 28, 2001 with respect to the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station. Under the Agreement, FENOC paid a penalty of $28 million and agreed to cooperate with the United States and NRC during the term of the Agreement (which runs through December 31, 2006) in all criminal and administrative investigations and proceedings related to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement. 23 In consideration for FENOC’s (i) $28 million payment, (ii) cooperation as described above, (iii) acceptance and acknowledgement of responsibility for its conduct as described in the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement, (iv) compliance with federal criminal laws, and (v) continued compliance with the terms of the Agreement, the Department has agreed to refrain from seeking an indictment or otherwise initiating criminal prosecution of FENOC for the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached to the Agreement. If the Department determined that FENOC failed to comply with the terms of the Agreement, it could seek an indictment or begin criminal proceedings against FENOC, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. On October 20, 2004, FirstEnergy was notified by the SEC that the previously disclosed informal inquiry initiated by the SEC’s Division of Enforcement in September 2003 relating to the restatements in August 2003 of previously reported results by FirstEnergy and the Ohio Companies, and the Davis-Besse extended outage, have become the subject of a formal order of investigation. The SEC’s formal order of investigation also encompasses issues raised during the SEC’s examination of FirstEnergy and the Companies under the PUHCA. Concurrent with this notification, FirstEnergy received a subpoena asking for background documents and documents related to the restatements and Davis-Besse issues. On December 30, 2004, FirstEnergy received a subpoena asking for documents relating to issues raised during the SEC’s PUHCA examination. On August 24, 2005, additional information was requested regarding Davis-Besse. FirstEnergy has cooperated fully with the informal inquiry and will continue to do so with the formal investigation. Acts of War or Terrorism Could Negatively Impact Our Business The possibility that our infrastructure, or that of an interconnected company, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war could affect our operations. Our generation plants, transmission and distribution facilities, or those of interconnected companies, may be targets of terrorist activities that could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. Any such disruption could result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 