Item 1A Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time-to-time. Economic conditions in the United States could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Because economic conditions in the United States may affect real estate values, occupancy levels and property income, current and future economic conditions in the United States could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. The economy in the United States is continuing to experience a period of slow economic growth, with slowly declining unemployment from recent high levels and increased credit risk premiums for a number of market participants. These conditions may continue or worsen in the future. Economic conditions may be affected by numerous factors, including but not limited to, inflation and employment levels, energy prices, slow growth and/or recessionary concerns, changes in currency exchange rates, fiscal and tax policy uncertainty, geopolitical events, changes in government regulations, regulatory uncertainty, the availability of credit and interest rates. Future economic factors may negatively affect real estate values, occupancy levels and property income. If a Sponsored REIT defaults on a Sponsored REIT Loan, we may be required to keep a balance outstanding on our unsecured credit facilities or use our cash balance to repay our unsecured credit facilities, which may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders or for other corporate purposes. From time-to-time, we may draw on the BAML Credit Facility (as defined in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) or the BMO Term Loan (as defined in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) to make secured loans to Sponsored REITs in the form of mortgage loans or revolving lines of credit to fund construction costs, capital expenditures, leasing costs and for other purposes. We refer to these loans as Sponsored REIT Loans. We anticipate that each Sponsored REIT Loan will be repaid at maturity or earlier from long term financing of the property securing the loan, cash flows from that underlying property or some other capital event. If a Sponsored REIT defaults on a Sponsored REIT Loan, the Sponsored REIT could be unable to fully repay the Sponsored REIT Loan and we would have to satisfy our obligation under the BAML Credit Facility and/or the BMO Term Loan through other means. If we are required to use cash for this purpose, we would have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders or for other corporate purposes. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to refinance the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance the revolving line of credit portion of the BAML Credit Facility upon its maturity on October 29, 2018 (subject to extension until October 29, 2019), the term loan portion of the BAML Credit Facility upon its maturity on September 27, 2017 or the BMO Term Loan upon its maturity on August 26, 2020, that any such refinancings would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan. If we are unable to refinance the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected. Failure to comply with covenants in the BAML Credit Facility and the BMO Term Loan credit agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. The BAML Credit Facility and the BMO Term Loan credit agreements contain customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type, including limitations with respect to indebtedness, liens, investments, mergers and acquisitions, disposition of assets, changes in business, certain restricted payments, the requirement to have subsidiaries provide a guaranty in the event that they incur recourse indebtedness and transactions with affiliates. The BAML Credit Facility and the BMO Term Loan credit agreements also contain financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum tangible net worth, a maximum leverage ratio, a 7 Table of Contents maximum secured leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum unencumbered leverage ratio, minimum unsecured interest coverage and a maximum ratio of certain investments to total assets. Our continued ability to borrow under the BAML Credit Facility and the BMO Term Loan is subject to compliance with our financial and other covenants. Failure to comply with such covenants could cause a default under the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan, and we may then be required to repay either or both of them with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. We may use the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan to finance the acquisition of real properties and for other permitted investments; to finance investments associated with Sponsored REITs, to refinance or retire indebtedness and for working capital and other general business purposes, in each case to the extent permitted under the respective credit agreements. If we breach covenants in the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan credit agreements, the lenders can declare a default. A default under the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan credit agreements could result in difficulty financing growth in our business and could also result in a reduction in the cash available for distribution to our stockholders or for other corporate purposes. A default under the BAML Credit Facility or the BMO Term Loan credit agreements could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on variable rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $268 million of indebtedness under the revolving line of credit portion of our BAML Credit Facility that bears interest at variable rates based on our credit rating, and we may incur more of such indebtedness in the future. Borrowings under the revolving line of credit portion of our BAML Credit Facility may not exceed $500 million outstanding at any time, although such amount may be increased by up to an additional $250 million through the exercise of an accordion feature. The term loan portion of our BAML Credit Facility is for $400 million. On September 27, 2012, we fixed the base LIBOR rate on the term loan portion of our BAML Credit Facility at 0.75% for five years by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. The BMO Term Loan is for $220 million, although such amount may be increased by up to an additional $50 million through the exercise of an accordion feature. On August 26, 2013, we fixed the base LIBOR rate on the BMO Term Loan at 2.32% for seven years by entering into an interest rate swap agreement. In the future, if interest rates increase, then so will the interest costs on our unhedged variable rate debt, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, rising interest rates could limit our ability to both incur new debt and to refinance existing debt when it matures. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging contracts, including swaps, caps and floors. While these agreements are intended to lessen the impact of rising interest rates on us, they also expose us to the risks that the other parties to the agreements will not perform, we could incur significant costs associated with the settlement of the agreements, the agreements will be unenforceable and the underlying transactions will fail to qualify as highly-effective cash flow hedges. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions Downgrades in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs or reduce our access to funding sources in the credit and capital markets. We are currently assigned a corporate credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) based on its evaluation of our creditworthiness. Although our corporate credit rating from Moody’s is currently investment grade, there can be no assurance that we will not be downgraded or that our rating will remain investment grade. If our credit rating is downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required, among other things, to pay additional interest and fees on outstanding borrowings under the BAML Credit Facility and the BMO Term Loan. Credit rating reductions by one or more rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to funding sources, the cost and other terms of obtaining funding as well as our overall financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 8 Table of Contents If we are not able to collect sufficient rents from each of our owned real properties, investments in Sponsored REITs or interest on Sponsored REIT Loans we fund, we may suffer significant operating losses or a reduction in cash available for future dividends. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated by the rental income of our real properties and investments in Sponsored REITs. If our properties do not provide us with a steady rental income or we do not collect interest income from Sponsored REIT Loans we fund, our revenues will decrease, which may cause us to incur operating losses in the future and reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may not be able to find properties that meet our criteria for purchase. Growth in our portfolio of real estate is dependent on the ability of our acquisition executives to find properties for sale and/or development which meet the applicable investment criteria. To the extent they fail to find such properties, we would be unable to increase the size of our portfolio of real estate, which could reduce the cash otherwise available for distribution to our stockholders. We are dependent on key personnel. We depend on the efforts of George J. Carter, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director; Barbara J. Fournier, our Chief Operating Officer, Treasurer, Secretary, an Executive Vice President and a Director; John G. Demeritt, our Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Vice President; Jeffery B. Carter, our Chief Investment Officer and an Executive Vice President; Janet Prier Notopoulos, an Executive Vice President and a Director; and Scott H. Carter, our General Counsel, Assistant Secretary and an Executive Vice President. If any of our executive officers were to resign, our operations could be adversely affected. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. On July 25, 2014, Ms. Fournier informed us that she will retire from FSP Corp. and resign her positions as our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Treasurer and Secretary. We believe that other executives will perform Ms. Fournier’s duties and that there will be no disruptions to our operations, but there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Our level of dividends may fluctuate. Because our real estate occupancy levels and rental rates can fluctuate, there is no predictable recurring level of revenue from such activities. As a result of this, the amount of cash available for distribution may fluctuate, which may result in our not being able to maintain or grow dividend levels in the future. We face risks from tenant defaults or bankruptcies. If any of our tenants defaults on its lease, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as a landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. In addition, at any time, a tenant of one of our properties may seek the protection of bankruptcy laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such tenant’s lease and thereby cause a reduction in cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The real properties held by us may significantly decrease in value. As of February 10, 2015, we owned 38 properties. Some or all of these properties may decline in value. To the extent our real properties decline in value, our stockholders could lose some or all of the value of their investments. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected if the real properties held by us decline in value since these real properties represent the majority of the tangible assets held by us. Moreover, if we are forced to sell or lease the real property held by us below its initial purchase price or its carrying costs, respectively, or if we are forced to lease real property at below market rates because of the condition of the property, our results of operations would be adversely affected and such negative results of operations may result in lower dividends being paid to holders of our common stock. 9 Table of Contents New acquisitions may fail to perform as expected. We may acquire new properties by purchasing with cash, by drawing on the revolving line of credit portion of our BAML Credit Facility, by assuming existing indebtedness, by entering into new indebtedness, by issuing debt securities, by issuing shares of our stock or by other means. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we did not acquire any properties. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we acquired one property located in Georgia and two properties located in Colorado. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we acquired one property located in Georgia and one property located in Texas. Newly acquired properties may fail to perform as expected, in which case, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We face risks in owning, developing and operating real property. An investment in us is subject to the risks incident to the ownership, development and operation of real estate-related assets. These risks include the fact that real estate investments are generally illiquid, which may affect our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, as well as the risks normally associated with: · changes in general and local economic conditions; · the supply or demand for particular types of properties in particular markets; · changes in market rental rates; · the impact of environmental protection laws; · changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws; and · the impact of obligations and restrictions contained in title-related documents. Certain significant costs, such as real estate taxes, utilities, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property’s rental income is reduced. In addition, environmental and tax laws, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and other factors may affect real estate values and property income. Furthermore, the supply of commercial space fluctuates with market conditions. We may encounter significant delays in reletting vacant space, resulting in losses of income. When leases expire, we may incur expenses and may not be able to re-lease the space on the same terms. While we cannot predict when existing vacancy will be leased or if existing tenants with expiring leases will renew their leases or what the terms and conditions of the lease renewals will be, we expect to renew or sign new leases at current market rates for locations in which the buildings are located, which in some cases may be below the expiring rates. Certain leases provide tenants the right to terminate early if they pay a fee. If we are unable to re-lease space promptly, if the terms are significantly less favorable than anticipated or if the costs are higher, we may have to reduce distributions to our stockholders. Typical lease terms range from five to ten years, so up to approximately 20% of our rental revenue from commercial properties could be expected to expire each year. We face risks of tenant-type concentration. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 15% and 10% of our tenants as a percentage of the total rentable square feet operated in the energy services industry and the bank and credit services industry, respectively. An economic downturn in these or any industry in which a high concentration of our tenants operate or in which a significant number of our tenants currently or may in the future operate, could negatively impact the financial condition of such tenants and cause them to fail to make timely rental payments or default on lease obligations, fail to renew their leases or renew their leases on terms less favorable to us, become bankrupt or insolvent, or otherwise become unable to satisfy their obligations to us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We face risks from geographic concentration. The properties in our portfolio as of December 31, 2014, by aggregate square footage, are distributed geographically as follows: South — 43.3%, West — 24.1%, Midwest — 17.6% and East — 15.0%. However, within certain of those regions, we hold a larger concentration of our properties in Greater Denver, Colorado — 21.0%, Atlanta, Georgia — 14.6%, Dallas, Texas — 14.1% and Houston, Texas — 12.4%. We are likely to face risks to the extent that any of these areas in which we hold a larger concentration of our properties suffer deteriorating economic conditions. We compete with national, regional and local real estate operators and developers, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Competition exists in every market in which our properties are currently located and in every market in which properties we may acquire in the future will be located. We compete with, among others, national, regional and numerous local real estate operators and developers. Such competition may adversely affect the percentage of leased space and the rental revenues of our properties, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders. Some of our competitors may have more resources than we do or other competitive advantages. Competition may be accelerated by any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate. For example, decreases in interest rates tend to increase the availability of funds and therefore can increase competition. To the extent that our properties continue to operate profitably, this will likely stimulate new development of competing properties. The extent to which we are affected by competition will depend in significant part on both local market conditions and national and global economic conditions. We are subject to possible liability relating to environmental matters, and we cannot assure you that we have identified all possible liabilities. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in its property. Such laws may impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell such property or to borrow using such property as collateral, and it may cause the owner of the property to incur substantial remediation costs. In addition to claims for cleanup costs, the presence of hazardous substances on a property could result in the owner incurring substantial liabilities as a result of a claim by a private party for personal injury or a claim by an adjacent property owner for property damage. In addition, we cannot assure you that: · future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability; · proposed legislation to address climate change will not increase utility and other costs of operating our properties which, if not offset by rising rental income and/or paid by tenants, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; · the current environmental conditions of our properties will not be affected by the condition of properties in the vicinity of such properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us; · tenants will not violate their leases by introducing hazardous or toxic substances into our properties that could expose us to liability under federal or state environmental laws; or · environmental conditions, such as the growth of bacteria and toxic mold in heating and ventilation systems or on walls, will not occur at our properties and pose a threat to human health. We are subject to compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, any of which could require us to make significant capital expenditures. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), and the regulations, rules and orders that may be issued thereunder. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to 11 Table of Contents persons with disabilities. Compliance with ADA requirements might require, among other things, removal of access barriers and noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. Compliance with such requirements may require us to make substantial capital expenditures, which expenditures would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to our stockholders. We face risks associated with our tenants being designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury, or OFAC, maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned, which we refer to as Prohibited Persons. OFAC regulations and other laws prohibit conducting business or engaging in transactions with Prohibited Persons (the “OFAC Requirements”). Our current leases and certain other agreements require the other party to comply with the OFAC Requirements. If a tenant or other party with whom we contract is placed on the OFAC list we may be required by the OFAC Requirements to terminate the lease or other agreement. Any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or a damage claim by the other party that the termination was wrongful. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data concerning investors in the Sponsored REITS, tenants and vendors. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and could damage our reputation. Actual or threatened terrorist attacks may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties. We have significant investments in markets that may be the targets of actual or threatened terrorism attacks in the future. As a result, some tenants in these markets may choose to relocate their businesses to other markets or to lower-profile office buildings within these markets that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity. This could result in an overall decrease in the demand for office space in these markets generally or in our properties in particular, which could increase vacancies in our properties or necessitate that we lease our properties on less favorable terms or both. In addition, future terrorist attacks in these markets could directly or indirectly damage our properties, both physically and financially, or cause losses that materially exceed our insurance coverage. As a result of the foregoing, our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties could decline materially. See also “We may lose capital investment or anticipated profits if an uninsured event occurs.” We may lose capital investment or anticipated profits if an uninsured event occurs. We carry, or our tenants carry, comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage with respect to each of our properties, with policy specification and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured material loss occur, we could lose both capital invested in the property and anticipated profits. 12 Table of Contents Our employee retention plan may prevent changes in control. During February 2006, our Board of Directors approved a change in control plan, which included a form of retention agreement and discretionary payment plan. Payments under the discretionary plan are capped at 1% of the market capitalization of FSP Corp. as reduced by the amount paid under the retention plan. The costs associated with these two components of the plan may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change in control under circumstances that could otherwise give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a greater premium over the then-prevailing market prices. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current stockholders. The interests of our existing stockholders could be diluted if additional equity securities are issued to finance future acquisitions, repay indebtedness or to fund other general corporate purposes. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing. The price of our common stock may vary. The market prices for our common stock may fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, including the market perception of REITs in general, and changes in the financial condition of our securities. Such fluctuations may depress the market price of our common stock independent of the financial performance of FSP Corp. The market conditions for REIT stocks generally could affect the market price of our common stock. We would incur adverse tax consequences if we failed to qualify as a REIT. The provisions of the tax code governing the taxation of real estate investment trusts are very technical and complex, and although we expect that we will be organized and will operate in a manner that will enable us to meet such requirements, no assurance can be given that we will always succeed in doing so. In addition, as a result of our past acquisition of certain Sponsored REITs by merger, which we refer to as target REITs, we might no longer qualify as a real estate investment trust. We could lose our ability to so qualify for a variety of reasons relating to the nature of the assets acquired from the target REITs, the identity of the stockholders of the target REITs who become our stockholders or the failure of one or more of the target REITs to have previously qualified as a real estate investment trust. Moreover, you should note that if one or more of the target REITs that we acquired in May 2008, April 2006, April 2005 or June 2003 did not qualify as a REIT immediately prior to the consummation of its acquisition, we could be disqualified as a REIT as a result of such acquisition. If in any taxable year we do not qualify as a real estate investment trust, we would be taxed as a corporation and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. In addition, if we were to fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we could be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust in the year in which such failure occurred and for the next four taxable years and, consequently, we would be taxed as a regular corporation during such years. Failure to qualify for even one taxable year could result in a significant reduction of our cash available for distribution to our stockholders or could require us to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to generate sufficient funds to pay the resulting federal income tax liabilities. Provisions in our organizational documents may prevent changes in control. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions, described below, which may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change of control under circumstances that could otherwise give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices. Ownership Limits. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust, the holders of our common stock may be limited to owning, either directly or under applicable attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 9.8% of the lesser of the value or the number of our equity shares, and no holder of common stock may acquire or transfer shares that would result in our shares of common stock being beneficially 13 Table of Contents owned by fewer than 100 persons. Such ownership limit may have the effect of preventing an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors. Our Articles of Incorporation give our board of directors the right to refuse to give effect to the acquisition or transfer of shares by a stockholder in violation of these provisions. Staggered Board. Our board of directors is divided into three classes. The terms of these classes will expire in 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Directors of each class are elected for a three-year term upon the expiration of the initial term of each class. The staggered terms for directors may affect our stockholders’ ability to effect a change in control even if a change in control were in the stockholders’ best interests. Preferred Stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share, and to establish the preferences and rights of any such shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interest. Increase of Authorized Stock. Our board of directors, without any vote or consent of the stockholders, may increase the number of authorized shares of any class or series of stock or the aggregate number of authorized shares we have authority to issue. The ability to increase the number of authorized shares and issue such shares could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interest. Amendment of Bylaws. Our board of directors has the sole power to amend our Bylaws. This power could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interests. Stockholder Meetings. Our Bylaws require advance notice for stockholder proposals to be considered at annual meetings of stockholders and for stockholder nominations for election of directors at special meetings of stockholders. The advance notice provisions require a proponent to provide us with detailed information about the proponent and/or nominee. Our Bylaws also provide that stockholders entitled to cast more than 50% of all the votes entitled to be cast at a meeting must join in a request by stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and that a specific process for the meeting request must be followed. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in the best interests of our stockholders. Supermajority Votes Required. Our Articles of Incorporation require the affirmative vote of the holders of no less than 80% of the shares of capital stock outstanding and entitled to vote in order (i) to amend the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation relating to the classification of directors, removal of directors, limitation of liability of officers and directors or indemnification of officers and directors or (ii) to amend our Articles of Incorporation to impose cumulative voting in the election of directors. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 14 Table of Contents 