ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements in this document and those made from time to time by us through our senior management are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements concerning the expected future revenues or earnings or concerning projected plans, performance, or development of products and services, as well as other estimates related to future operations are necessarily only estimates of future results and there can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements represent management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: If we fail to raise additional capital, we will be unable to continue our business. Our development efforts to date have consumed and will continue to require substantial amounts of capital in connection with research and development of our tCGM system and specialty pharmaceuticals programs. As we conduct more advanced product development of our Symphony tCGM System and AzoneTS reformulation pipeline, including Durhalieve, we will need significant funding to complete our product development programs and to pursue product commercialization. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue our business and our research, development and commercialization activities associated with our product pipeline is highly dependent on our ability to obtain additional sources of financing. The terms of our Secured Note financing entered into in March 2008 tightly restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our Senior Convertible Notes also contain restrictions on our ability to incur further debt. Accordingly, our previous financings restrict the manner in which we can pursue additional financing. Any future equity financing, if available, may result in substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Any failure by us to timely procure additional financing or investment adequate to fund our ongoing operations, including planned product development initiatives, clinical studies and commercialization efforts, will have material adverse consequences on our business operations and as a result, on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that we attempt to raise additional funds through third 16 Table of Contents party collaborations and/or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products currently in various stages of development, or grant licenses or other rights on terms that are not favorable to us. We may not be successful in entering into any new collaboration or license agreement that results in material revenues. Additionally, we do not expect that the revenues generated from these arrangements would be sufficient alone to continue or expand our research or development activities and otherwise sustain our operation in the near term, if at all. Our indebtedness under our Secured Notes is secured by substantially all of our assets, including our rights to our Symphonytm tCGM System and AzoneTStm transdermal drug reformulation technology. If an event of default occurs under our Secured Notes, the holder of the Secured Notes may foreclose on our assets. In connection with the issuance of our Secured Notes in March 2008, we granted the holder of the Secured Notes a security interest in substantially all of our assets. Our subsidiaries also guaranteed our obligations under the Secured Notes. The events of default under the Secured Notes include: • our failure to make a payment when due or payable; • a breach or notice of intent to breach of any material term, covenant or condition in the Secured Note or any of the transaction documents and such breach is not cured within five business days after notice; • any false, incorrect or breach in any material respect of any material representation or warranty; • the default of more than $25,000 of any other of our indebtedness that causes such amount to become due and payable; or • our bankruptcy (whether voluntary or involuntary) or general assignment for the benefit of its creditors. The occurrence of an event of default under our Secured Notes could result in an event of default under our Senior Convertible Notes as well. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the terms of the Secured Notes, the holder of the Secured Notes may enforce its rights as a secured party and we may lose all or a portion of our assets, be forced to materially reduce our business activities, or cease operations entirely. A failure to maintain a sufficient level of stockholders’ equity could result in an event of default and seizure of our assets. The terms of our agreement with the holder of the Secured Notes includes a provision that we maintain stockholders’ equity at all times equal to or in excess of $6.5 million. Generally, stockholders’ equity is defined in the agreement as the aggregate value of all cash and cash equivalents, a portion of any accounts receivable, all inventory (valued at cost multiplied by 0.80 and excluding the portion of all work in process inventory that is in excess of 10% of the total inventory) and all other real and personal property (including intangible assets) and equipment, net of depreciation, minus the aggregate amount of all of our liabilities (excluding the impact of the warrants issued in connection with the Secured Notes). We have historically incurred significant operating losses and expect to continue doing so in the foreseeable future. Costs associated with further development of our products and clinical programs will increase our operating expenses. Accordingly, without additional new equity capital to offset expected continuing losses, we will be at a further risk of failing to comply with the stockholders’ equity covenant as we continue to operate our business. Furthermore, our ability to comply with the stockholders’ equity requirement would be further jeopardized if we experience an impairment of our intangible and long-lived assets. We are required to test periodically our intangible and long-lived assets, including the intangible assets associated with the ETI Acquisition, to determine if impairment has occurred. If such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss would be recognized equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets. An impairment loss would cause stockholders’ equity to decline and could cause us to fail to comply with the requirement that we maintain stockholders’ equity equal to or in excess of $6.5 million (excluding the impact of the warrants issued in connection with the Secured Notes). 17 Table of Contents While the terms of our agreement with the holder of the Secured Notes provide for a thirty day grace period in the event that we fail to maintain a sufficient level of stockholders’ equity, a failure to satisfy this obligation would give the holder of the Secured Notes the right to declare an event of default and foreclose on our assets. Accordingly, a failure to maintain the required level of stockholders’ equity could result in a loss of all or a portion of our assets, force us to materially reduce our business activities, or cease operations entirely. The terms of our Secured Notes requiring that we maintain a level of stockholders’ equity could impede or prohibit our ability to develop our products. Costs that we incur in connection with the development of our products will increase our operating expenses. An increase in our operating expenses, without offsetting additional equity capital, will decrease our stockholders’ equity. Accordingly, without the receipt of substantial additional equity capital, we may need to delay or halt the development of any or all of our products in order to maintain sufficient stockholders’ equity so as to remain in compliance with the terms of our agreement with the holders of the Secured Notes. The failure to timely pursue product development could further delay our ability to commercialize our products and increase the costs associated with developing our products. Any delay or halt to our development plans could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our prospects for future commercialization of our products. We have a history of operating losses, and we expect our operating losses to continue for the foreseeable future and we may not continue as a going concern. We have generated limited revenue and have had operating losses since our inception, including a net loss of approximately $10,596,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $58,282,000. Losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with our research and development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. The audit report from Wolf & Company, P.C., our independent registered public accounting firm, relating to our 2008 financial statements contains Wolf’s opinion that our recurring losses from operations, significant accumulated deficit, significant working capital deficit and our failure to raise sufficient capital to fund our operations, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We also expect to experience negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. This will result in decreases in our working capital, total assets and shareholders’ equity, which may not be offset by future funding. It is possible that we will never generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We expect our operating losses to continue and increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to expend substantial resources to conduct research and development, seek to obtain regulatory approval for our Symphony tCGM System, Durhalieve and our other AzoneTS pipeline candidates, identify and secure collaborative partnerships, and manage and execute our obligations in possible strategic collaborations. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity. Our principal shareholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence. Our principal shareholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the composition of a majority of our Board of Directors, retain the voting power to approve certain matters requiring shareholder approval, and continue to have significant influence over our affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control. Furthermore, so long as the purchasers in our January 2007 strategic private placement own 20% of the shares purchased in that transaction, the purchasers have the right to designate one director for election to our Board of Directors. The candidate is designated by the purchaser holding at least a majority of the shares of common stock purchased in the January 2007 financing, and such holder is currently Sherbrooke Partners, LLC, a beneficial owner of approximately 8.71% of our outstanding common stock as of March 25, 2009. Additionally, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with a concentration of ownership. 18 Table of Contents Our future success is dependent upon successful collaborations with strategic partners. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to selectively enter into and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties for technology research and development, clinical testing, product development and sales and marketing. If we are unable to enter into any additional development agreements or collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, we will be required to internally fund all of our product development activities, significantly increasing business risk and capital requirements in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new products. We could also encounter significant delays in introducing products into markets or find that the development, manufacture or sale of proposed products in such markets is adversely affected by the absence of those collaborative arrangements. The process of establishing collaborative partners is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. Discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborative relationships on favorable terms, if at all. If successful in establishing a collaborative agreement, such agreement may never result in the successful development of products or the generation of significant revenue. Any such agreements could limit our flexibility in pursuing alternatives for the development or commercialization of our products. Even if we were to enter into additional collaborative arrangements with third parties, there can be no assurance that our financial condition or results of operations will significantly improve. The trading price of our common stock entails additional regulatory requirements, which may negatively affect such trading price. Our common stock is currently listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, an over-the-counter electronic quotation service, which stock currently trades below $5.00 per share and the trading price of our common stock may continue to be below $5.00 per share. As a result of this price level, trading in our common stock would be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock. As a consequence, the market liquidity of our common stock could be severely affected or limited by these regulatory requirements. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. This price may be influenced by many factors, including: • our financial condition, performance and prospects; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • our ability to enter into successful collaborative arrangements with strategic partners for research and development, clinical testing, and sales and marketing; • sales by selling shareholders of shares issued and issuable in connection with our private placements in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology and life sciences sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. 19 Table of Contents Securities we issue to fund our operations could dilute or otherwise adversely affect our shareholders. We need to raise substantial additional funds through public or private equity financings to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of current shareholders will be significantly reduced and the new equity securities may have rights senior to those of the shares of our common stock. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to current investors or us. We may delay, limit or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. Risks related to our discovery, development and commercialization of new medical products Our medical device products are based on new technologies and are in early stages of development, and may not be successfully developed or achieve market acceptance. Most of our products under development have a high risk of failure because they are based on new technologies and are in the early stages of development. To date, we have tested the feasibility of our Prelude technology for various applications, including continuous glucose monitoring and certain anesthetic applications. We have also tested the feasability of our Symphony tCGM System technology for the monitoring of glucose on a continuous basis. However, to develop additional products or additional uses, substantial expenditures will be required, including for feasibility studies, pre-clinical studies, prototype development and clinical testing. Projected costs for such development are difficult to estimate and they may change and increase frequently. Our success is dependent on further developing new and existing products and obtaining favorable results from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and satisfying regulatory standards and approvals required for the market introduction of such products, including skin permeation methods and our tCGM system. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter unforeseen problems in the development of our transdermal continuous glucose monitoring and skin permeation technologies, or that we will be able to successfully address the problems that do arise. There can be no assurance that any of our potential products will be successfully developed, proven safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs, or be eligible for third-party reimbursement from governmental or private insurers. Even if we successfully develop new products, there can be no assurance that such products will be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance, or that expected markets will develop for such products. If any of our development programs are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals or clearances are not obtained, or potential products for which approvals or clearances are obtained are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, because our products are based on new technologies, they are subject to lengthy sales cycles and may take substantial time and effort to achieve market acceptance, especially at hospitals, which typically have a lengthy and rigorous approval process for adopting new technologies. Our future success may be dependent in part upon successful development of our continuous glucose monitor for the hospital intensive care unit and critical care unit markets. We have completed the initial prototypes and have conducted several pilot human clinical studies in 2006-2008 at a leading Boston-area hospital, with a member of our Clinical Advisory Board serving as principal investigator. Although we believe the clinical rationale exists for our tCGM system for the ICU market, there can be no assurance that such a market will be established, or that we will be able to successfully develop a product that will prove effective for this market or gain market acceptance should such a market develop. Our tCGM product development process may take several years and will require substantial capital outlays. If the ICU market does not develop as we expect, or if we are unable to successfully develop a tCGM product for such markets on a timely basis and within cost constraints, then our business and financial results will be materially adversely affected. Our pharmaceutical products are in various stages of development and may not be successfully developed or obtain regulatory approval. The product candidates in our Azonetm pipeline are at various stages of developments. We have filed a NDA covering Durhalievetm, our most advanced Azonetm product candidate, for corticosteroid responsive dermatoses, 20 Table of Contents with the FDA and we now seeking to satisfy FDA manufacturing requirements necessary to secure market approval. We believe that the failure to advance Durhalievetm beyond its current stage of development will have a material adverse effect on our prospects and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of our Azonetm pipeline programs involve topical reformulations of FDA-approved products. We must successfully complete nonclinical development activities, including reformulation development, process development and manufacturing activities, with respect to these product candidates before we can commence late-stage clinical development necessary to obtain regulatory approval. These nonclinical development activities, as well as the clinical trials associated with each AzoneTS reformulation development program, are expensive, uncertain and will take several years to complete and may not yield results that support further clinical development or product approvals. Conducting clinical studies for any of our product candidates for approval in the United States requires filing an IND and reaching agreement with the FDA on clinical protocols, finding appropriate clinical sites and clinical investigators, securing approvals for such studies from the institutional review board at each such site, manufacturing clinical quantities of drug candidates, supplying drug product to clinical sites and enrolling sufficient numbers of participants. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully accomplish these activities or all of the other activities necessary to initiate and complete clinical trials. As a result, our nonclinical and clinical development programs may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our results to date provide no basis for predicting whether any of our product candidates will be safe or effective, or receive regulatory approval. Most of our AzoneTS-related product candidates are in early stages of reformulation development and the likelihood of success of each product candidate is highly speculative. To date, the data supporting our AzoneTS drug development programs and new chemical entities are derived solely from laboratory and nonclinical studies and limited early stage clinical trials. Additional clinical trials in humans may not show that our AzoneTS-reformulated drug candidates are safe and effective, in which event we may need to further reformulate or abandon development of one or more of our current product candidates. It is impossible to predict when or if our early-stage AzoneTS pipeline products will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive regulatory approval. These AzoneTS-reformulated compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, or early stage clinical trials, and they may interact with human biological systems or other drugs in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. If we are unable to discover or successfully develop drugs that are effective and safe in humans, we will not have a viable business. We may not be able to gain market acceptance of our product candidates, which would prevent us from becoming profitable. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and the medical community in general. The degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: • Our establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates; • Our ability to create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market; and • Our ability to establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our treatments over alternative treatment methods. These and other factors combined with obtaining regulatory approvals will not guarantee future revenues. Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical products to determine whether they should be covered by reimbursement and if so, the level of reimbursement that will apply. We cannot be certain that third party payers will sufficiently reimburse sales of our products, or enable us 21 Table of Contents to sell our products at profitable prices. Similar concerns could also limit the reimbursement amounts that health insurers or government agencies in other countries are prepared to pay for our products. In many countries where we plan to market our products, including countries in Europe, Japan and Canada, the pricing of prescription drugs is controlled by the government or regulatory agencies. Government or other regulatory agencies in these countries could determine that the pricing for our products should be based on prices of other commercially available drugs for the same disease, rather than allowing us to market our products at a premium as new drugs. Sales of medical products also depend on physicians’ willingness to prescribe the treatment, which is likely to be based on a determination by these physicians that the products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost-effective. We cannot predict whether physicians, other healthcare providers, government agencies or private insurers will determine that our products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost effective relative to competing treatments. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce, or have produced by third-parties, an adequate supply of our pharmaceutical product candidates in nonclinical, clinical or commercial quantities, our development and commercialization activities will be limited and our business will be harmed. To date, our pharmaceutical product candidates have been manufactured in small, research-scale quantities by us and for us by third party contract manufacturers for nonclinical studies and clinical trials. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture it in larger quantities. We intend to continue to use third parties to manufacture our products for research and development purposes and, if our products are approved, for commercial purposes. Our third party manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or efficient manner, or at all. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in the supply of the product candidate. Our failure or the failure of our third party manufacturers to comply with the FDA’s GMP and to pass inspections of the manufacturing facilities by the FDA or other regulatory agencies could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to obtain and maintain the third party relationships that are necessary to develop, commercialize and manufacture some or all of our product candidates. We expect to depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, contract research organizations, manufacturers and other third parties to support our efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates, to manufacture clinical and commercial scale quantities of our product candidates and products and to market, sell, and distribute any products we successfully develop. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, manufacturers and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates, which will in turn adversely affect our business. We expect to expend substantial management time and effort to enter into relationships with third parties and, if we successfully enter into such relationships, to manage these relationships. We must attract and retain collaborative partners and to develop technologies and pipeline candidates that meet the requirements of prospective collaborative partners. In addition, substantial amounts of our expenditures will be paid to third parties in these relationships. However, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion, if at all. In addition, our contract partners will generally have the right to abandon research projects and terminate applicable agreements, including funding obligations, prior to or upon the expiration of agreed upon research terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in establishing multiple future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms 22 Table of Contents or at all, that current or future collaborative partners will not terminate funding before completion of projects, that our existing or future collaborative arrangements will result in successful product commercialization or that we will derive any revenues from such arrangements. Some or all of our collaborative partners may receive co-exclusive rights to market products incorporating our technology in a particular field of use or a particular territory. The grant of such rights will limit our alternatives in commercializing certain of our products and technologies. We have no experience in sales, marketing and distribution and may have to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, which could prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. To commercialize our product candidates, we must either develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. If we enter into third party arrangements, the third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our product candidates. If we decide to market any of our products on our own, we will have to commit significant resources to developing a marketing and sales force and supporting distribution capabilities. If we decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for performance of these services, we may find that they are not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are not able to establish and maintain successful arrangements with third parties or build our own sales and marketing infrastructure, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable pharmaceutical product candidates. We have limited technical, managerial and financial resources to determine which of our product candidates should proceed to initial clinical trials, later stage clinical development and potential commercialization. We may make incorrect determinations. Our decisions to allocate our research and development, management and financial resources toward particular product candidates or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate drug development programs may also be incorrect and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. If we are not able to retain our current senior management team and our scientific and medical advisors or continue to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the members of our management team and our network of clinical, regulatory, scientific and technical advisors for our business success. An important element of our strategy is to take advantage of the research and development expertise of our current management and to utilize the unique expertise of our advisors. We currently have employment agreements with all of our senior executive officers. Our employment agreements with our senior executive officers are terminable on short notice or no notice and provide for severance and change of control benefits. The loss of any one of our senior executive officers could result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and could cause significant delays, or outright failure, in the development and further commercialization of our product candidates. Disputes under key agreements or conflicts of interest with our scientific advisors or clinical investigators could delay or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates. Any agreements we have or may enter into with third parties, such as collaboration, license, formulation supplier, manufacturing, clinical research organization or clinical trial agreements, may give rise to disputes regarding the rights and obligations of the parties. Disagreements could develop over rights to ownership or use of intellectual property, the scope and direction of research and development, the approach for regulatory approvals or commercialization strategy. We intend to conduct research programs in a range of therapeutic areas, but our pursuit of these opportunities could result in conflicts with the other parties to these agreements that may be developing or selling pharmaceuticals or conducting other activities in these same therapeutic areas. Any disputes or commercial conflicts could lead to the termination of our agreements, delay progress of our product development programs, 23 Table of Contents compromise our ability to renew agreements or obtain future agreements, lead to the loss of intellectual property rights or result in costly litigation. We collaborate with outside scientific advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. Our scientific advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. If a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. We may have challenges in managing our outside contractors for product and regulatory accomplishments. We rely heavily upon and have relationships with outside contractors and consultants with expertise in drug development, regulatory strategy, manufacturing and other matters. These parties are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of consultants and outside contractors and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration and consulting agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. If any third party with whom we have or enter into a relationship is unable or refuses to contribute to projects on which we need their help, our ability to generate advances in our technologies and develop our product candidates could be significantly harmed. Risks related to regulatory approvals None of our product candidates has received regulatory approvals. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals to market one or more of our product candidates, our business will be adversely affected. Most of our pharmaceutical product candidates are in early stages of development, and we do not expect these product candidates to be commercially available in the foreseeable future, if at all. Our product candidates are subject to strict regulation by regulatory authorities in the United States and in other countries. In particular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic product candidates are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other requirements by the FDA in the United States and similar authorities in other countries in order to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and failure to comply with regulatory requirements or inadequate manufacturing processes are examples of other problems that could prevent approval. Because our product candidates involve or are expected to involve the application of new technologies or are based upon a new therapeutic approach, they may be subject to substantial additional review by various governmental regulatory authorities, and, as a result, the process of obtaining regulatory approvals for them may proceed more slowly than for product candidates based upon more conventional technologies. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections due to additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in the FDA policy. We do not know whether regulatory agencies will grant approval for any of our product candidates. Even if we complete preclinical studies and clinical trials successfully, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals or we may not receive approvals to make claims about our products that we believe to be necessary to effectively market our products. We cannot market any product candidate until we have completed all necessary preclinical studies and clinical trials and have obtained the necessary regulatory approvals. Outside the United States, our ability to market any of our potential products is dependent upon receiving marketing approvals from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above plus additional risks. If we are unable to receive regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our business may fail. If we are unable to successfully complete the preclinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support PMA or NDA submissions to the FDA, we may be unable to commercialize our tCGM system or AzoneTS products under development, which could impair our financial position. Before submitting a PMA application to the FDA for our tCGM system or a NDA for an AzoneTS product candidate, we must successfully complete preclinical studies and clinical trials that we believe will demonstrate that our product is safe and effective. Product development, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, is a long, 24 Table of Contents expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failure at any stage. Furthermore, the data obtained from the studies and trial may be inadequate to support approval of a PMA or NDA as the case may be. With respect to our medical device programs, while we have in the past obtained, and may in the future obtain, an Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, prior to commencing clinical trials for our tCGM systems, FDA approval of an IDE application permitting us to conduct testing does not mean that the FDA will consider the data gathered in the trial to be sufficient to support approval of a PMA application, even if the trial’s intended safety and efficacy endpoints are achieved. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA or NDA as the case may be, for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients do not comply with trial protocols; • patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect; • patients experience adverse side effects; • patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our products; • institutional review boards, or IRBs, and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol; • third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator agreements, clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA or IRB requirements; • third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans; • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and • the FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results, and predecessor clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to prove safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the approval of our products. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market our products. The data we collect from our current clinical trials, our pre-clinical studies and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA approval. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays that are outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trial and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If these clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to ensure compliance by patients 25 Table of Contents with clinical protocols or fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we will be unable to complete these trials, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing place substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, or the clinical data may be rejected by the FDA, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products. The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. The preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of medical devices and specialty pharmaceuticals are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the United States and other countries. We must obtain regulatory approval for each of our product candidates before marketing or selling any of them. It is not possible to predict how long the approval processes of the FDA or any other applicable federal or foreign regulatory authority or agency for any of our products will take or whether any such approvals ultimately will be granted. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the medical device and drug approval process, and positive results in preclinical testing or early phases of clinical studies offer no assurance of success in later phases of the approval process. Generally, preclinical and clinical testing of products can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we encounter significant delays in the regulatory process that result in excessive costs, this may prevent us from continuing to develop our product candidates. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to generate product revenue. The risks associated with the approval process include: • failure of our product candidates to meet a regulatory entity’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality; • limitation on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; and • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for marketing our product candidates, if we fail to comply with continuing regulatory requirements, we could lose our regulatory approvals, and our business would be adversely affected. If we obtain regulatory agency approval for a new product, this approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which it can be marketed that could limit the potential commercial use of the product. Additionally, approved products are subject to continual review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product of any commercially viable product will be subject to government regulation from several standpoints including the processes of manufacturing, advertising and promoting, selling and marketing, labeling and distribution. Enforcement actions resulting from our failure to comply with government and regulatory requirements could result in fines, suspension of approvals, withdrawal of approvals, product recalls, product seizures, mandatory operating restrictions, criminal prosecution, civil penalties and other actions that could impair the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our potential products and our ability to conduct our business. 26 Table of Contents Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates, if they exhibit harmful side effects after approval, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted, and we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we will have tested them in only a small number of patients during our clinical trials. If our applications for marketing are approved and more patients begin to use our product, new risks and side effects associated with our products may be discovered. As a result, regulatory authorities may revoke their approvals. We may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of our product, reformulate our product or make changes and obtain new approvals for our and our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities. We might have to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. We may also experience a significant drop in the potential sales of our product if and when regulatory approvals for such product are obtained, experience harm to our reputation in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. Any of these results could decrease or prevent any sales of our approved product or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our product. Failure to obtain regulatory and pricing approvals in foreign jurisdictions could delay or prevent commercialization of our products abroad. If we succeed in developing any products, we intend to market them in Europe, Japan, Canada and other foreign jurisdictions. In order to do so, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval and additional risks associated with requirements particular to those foreign jurisdictions where we will seek regulatory approval of our products. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside the United States. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare reform measures could adversely affect our business. The efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may adversely affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical companies. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. The pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our common stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to enter into collaborations or license rights to our products. New federal legislation may increase the pressure to reduce prices of pharmaceutical products paid for by Medicare, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and disabled beginning in 2006. The new legislation uses formularies, preferred drug lists and similar mechanisms that may limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class or reduce the reimbursement for some of the drugs in a class. As a result of the expansion of legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. Legislation that would permit the federal government to negotiate drug prices directly with manufacturers under the Medicare prescription drug programs is currently under consideration. These cost reduction initiatives could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for our products in the future and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits 27 Table of Contents for Medicare beneficiaries, private payers often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement systems, and any limits on or reductions in reimbursement that occur in the Medicare program may result in similar limits on or reductions in payments from private payers. New federal laws or regulations on drug importation could make lower cost versions of our future products available, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. Both federal and state governments in the United States and governments in other countries continue to propose and pass legislation designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals and other medical products may be adopted before any of our potential products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product candidate we may develop in the future. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and any of our potential products may ultimately not be considered cost-effective by these third parties. Any of these initiatives or developments could materially harm our business. The prices of some drugs and medical devices are lower in other countries than in the United States because of government regulation and market conditions. Under current law, importation of drugs into the United States is generally not permitted unless the drugs are approved in the United States and the entity that holds that approval consents to the importation. Various proposals have been advanced to permit the importation of drugs from other countries to provide lower cost alternatives to the products available in the United States. In addition, the MMA requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. If the laws or regulations are changed to permit the importation of drugs or medical devices into the United States in circumstances that are currently not permitted, such a change could have an adverse effect on our business by making available lower priced alternatives to our future products. If we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our product candidates, the use of our potential products could be severely limited. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend significantly on our ability to obtain acceptable prices and the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved healthcare products. If our potential products are not considered cost-effective or if we fail to generate adequate third-party reimbursement for the users of our potential products and treatments, then we may be unable to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. In both the United States and other markets, sales of our potential products, if any, will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, examples of which include government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations, and pharmacy benefit management companies. Risks related to competition We operate in highly competitive medical device and specialty pharmaceuticals markets and face competition from large, well-established companies with significantly more resources, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive. Many companies, universities, and research organizations developing competing product candidates have greater resources and significantly greater experience in financial, research and development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution, and technical regulatory matters than we have. In addition, many competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive collaborative relationships. Our competitors could commence and complete clinical testing of their product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals, and begin commercial-scale manufacturing of their products faster than we are able to for our products. They could develop products that would render our product candidates, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable 28 Table of Contents products or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than us. If we are unable to compete effectively against these companies, then we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates or achieve a competitive position in the market. This would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. The markets for glucose monitoring devices and specialty pharmaceuticals are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. With respect to our Symphony tCGM System, we expect to compete directly with Roche Disetronic, a division of Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense divisions of Abbott Laboratories and Bayer Corporation, each of which manufactures and markets products for the single-point finger stick device market. Collectively, we believe these companies currently account for substantially all of the worldwide sales of self-monitored glucose testing systems. Several companies are developing or currently marketing short-term continuous glucose monitoring products that will compete directly with our Symphony tCGM System. To date, Abbott, Cygnus, DEXCOM and Medtronic have received approval from the FDA for continuous glucose monitors. We believe that the product originally developed and marketed by Cygnus is no longer actively marketed. Most of the companies developing or marketing competing glucose monitoring devices and specialty pharmaceuticals are publicly traded or divisions of publicly-traded companies, and these companies enjoy several competitive advantages, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved products; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products. No continuous glucose monitoring system has yet received FDA clearance as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices, and our Symphonytm tCGM System may never be approved for that indication. We do not expect our Symphony tCGM System to eliminate the need for single-point finger stick devices in the foreseeable future and it may not ever be approved by the FDA for that indication. At present, there is no established precedent for FDA approval of a continuous glucose monitoring system as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices. If any of our competitors were to obtain replacement claim labeling for a continuous glucose monitoring system, our Symphony tCGM System may not be able to compete effectively against that system and our business would suffer. Technological breakthroughs in the glucose monitoring market could render our products obsolete. The glucose monitoring market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Our products are based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies and medical researchers are pursuing new technologies for the monitoring of glucose levels. FDA approval of a commercially viable continuous glucose monitor or sensor produced by one of our competitors could significantly reduce market acceptance of our system. Several of our competitors are in various stages of developing continuous glucose monitors or sensors, including non-invasive and invasive devices, and the FDA has approved four of these competing products. In addition, the National Institutes of Health and other supporters of diabetes research are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve treatment of diabetes. Therefore, our products may be rendered obsolete by technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment, prevention or cure. 29 Table of Contents Risks related to products liability exposure We may have significant product liability exposure which may harm our business and our reputation. We face exposure to product liability and other claims if our product candidates, products or processes are alleged to have caused harm. These risks are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, and marketing of human therapeutic products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products or product candidates that we develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, product candidates or processes, our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also generate negative publicity or hurt our ability to obtain physician endorsement of our products or expand our business. Risks related to our intellectual property Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and our ability to compete is dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark law, and trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. However, such methods may not be adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or at all. Our issued patents, and those that may issue in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. To protect our proprietary rights, we may in the future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, invalid or unenforceable, and could award attorney fees. Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, third parties may be able to design around our patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. We are subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from commercializing our product candidates, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. As is generally the case in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries in which we operate, third-parties may, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties or others. Our competitors may assert that our product candidates, technologies and/or the methods we employ in the use of our tCGM systems and/or AzoneTS pipeline candidates are covered by U.S. or 30 Table of Contents foreign patents held by them. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued patents and pending patent applications relating to self-monitored glucose testing systems in the medical technology field. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components of our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the market for continuous glucose monitoring systems and specialty pharmaceuticals grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling our product that is found to infringe unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Even if we are able to redesign our products to avoid an infringement claim, we may not receive FDA approval for such changes in a timely manner or at all. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, selling or offering to sell, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. 