Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business A limited number of customer contracts account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the inability to replace a key customer contract or the failure of the customer to implement its plans would adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition. We rely on a small number of customer contracts for a large portion of our revenue. Specifically, we have agreements with three customers to provide equipment and services, from which we expect to generate a significant portion of our revenues. We derived 17% and 11% of our revenues in the year ended June 30, 2007 from the Department of State’s Diplomatic Telecommunications Systems — Program Office and another U.S. Government agency, respectively. If any key customer is unable to implement its business plan, the market for these customers’ services declines, political or military conditions make performance impossible or if all or any of the major customers modifies or terminates its agreement with us, and we are unable to replace these contracts, our results of operations, business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the government marketplace. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from government marketplace. In the year ended June 30, 2007, we derived 68% of our consolidated revenues from the government marketplace. This 13 business tends to have higher gross margins than other markets of our business. A future reduction in the proportion of our business from government marketplace would negatively impact our results of operations. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of the GlobalSat business. The success of our recent acquisition of the GlobalSat business depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the GlobalSat business with our business, and the failure to realize these anticipated benefits could cause our business to be materially adversely affected. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends upon our successful integrations of the operations of the GlobalSat business. The integration of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming processes. The difficulties of combining the operations of the businesses include among others: • retaining key employees; • bridging possible differences in cultures and management philosophies; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and systems; • coordinating sales and marketing functions; • preserving our and the GlobalSat business’ customer, supplier and other important relationships; • aligning and executing on new product roadmaps; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. We acquired the GlobalSat business for $18.5 million and entered into a five-year $16 million acquisition term loan. We plan for the future cash flow of the GlobalSat division business to fund the principal and interest payments of the acquisition term loan, unless it is repaid from other financing proceeds. The GlobalSat business is generally dependant upon agreements with three customers to provide equipment and services, from which we expect to generate a significant portion of revenues relating to the GlobalSat business. If any of these three customers modifies or terminates its agreement with GlobalSat, and we are unable to replace these contracts, our results of operations, business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We cannot assure you that our integration of the GlobalSat business will result in the realization of the full benefits that we anticipate will result from the acquisition. Any inability to integrate successfully, or a delay in integrating, the GlobalSat business could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. We market and sell a substantial portion of our products and services internationally. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future with a significant portion of the international revenue coming from developing countries, including countries in areas of conflict like Afghanistan. There are a number of risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: • general political and economic instability in international markets, including the hostilities in Iraq and Afghanistan, could impede our ability to deliver our products and services to customers and harm our results of operations; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations; • changes in regulatory requirements could restrict our ability to deliver services to our international customers; including the addition of a country to the list of sanctioned countries under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act or similar legislation; 14 • export restrictions, tariffs, licenses and other trade barriers could prevent us from adequately equipping our network facilities; • differing technology standards across countries may impede our ability to integrate our products and services across international borders; • protectionist laws and business practices favoring local competition may give unequal bargaining leverage to key vendors in countries where competition is scarce, significantly increasing our operating costs; • increased expenses associated with marketing services in foreign countries could affect our ability to compete; • relying on local subcontractors for installation of our products and services could adversely impact the quality of our products and services; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations could affect our ability to compete; • complex foreign laws and treaties could affect our ability to compete; and • potentially adverse taxes could affect our results of operations. These and other risks could impede our ability to manage our international operations effectively, limit the future growth of our business, increase our costs and require significant management attention. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from fixed-price projects, under which we assume greater financial risk if we fail to accurately estimate the costs of the projects. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from fixed-price projects. We assume greater financial risks on a fixed-price project than on a time-and-expense based project. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need for these fixed-price projects, the costs of completing these projects may exceed our original estimates, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If GNSC does not continue to execute its business strategy or if the market for its services fails to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our results of operations will be harmed. GNSC’s future revenues and results of operations are dependent on its execution of its business strategy and development of the market for its current and future services. GNSC has had, and we expect will continue to have, cash requirements, which have decreased and will continue to decrease our cash resources. If GNSC does not efficiently and substantially utilize its transponder space capacity and increase its level of orders, its cash requirements may increase and our results of operations will be harmed. In addition, significant capital expenditures have been required as we have built our content delivery and telephony service offerings. If our content delivery and telephony service offerings are not accepted, or if the market fails to grow, we cannot assure you that we will be able to realize an appropriate return on these capital expenditures. In the event of a catastrophic loss affecting our operations in Hauppauge, New York or Laurel, Maryland, our results of operations would be harmed. GNSC’s revenues and results of operations are dependant on the infrastructure of the network operations center and the International Teleport at our headquarters in Hauppauge, New York. Similarly, GSM’s revenues and results of operations are dependant on the infrastructure of the network operations center and teleport at our Laurel, Maryland facility. A catastrophic event to either of these facilities or to the infrastructure of the surrounding areas would result in significant delays in restoring a majority of the services capabilities. These capabilities permit us to offer an integrated suite of products and services and the incapacity of our communications infrastructure would negatively impact our ability to sell our infrastructure solutions. This would result in the loss of revenues and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our markets are highly competitive and we have many established competitors, and we may lose market share as a result. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and this competition could harm our ability to sell our products and services on prices and terms favorable to us. Our primary competitors in the 15 infrastructure solutions market generally fall into two groups: (1) system integrators, like Thales, Data Path, and SED Systems, and (2) equipment manufacturers who also provide integrated systems, like General Dynamics SATCOM Technologies, Andrew Corporation, Viasat, Alcatel and ND Satcom AG. In the end-to-end satellite-based enterprise solutions and broadcast services markets, we compete with other satellite communication companies who provide similar services, like Ascent Media, Globecast, and Convergent Media Systems. In addition, in managed network services we may compete with other communications service providers like Segovia and satellite owners like SES Americom and Intelsat. We anticipate that our competitors may develop or acquire services that provide functionality that is similar to that provided by our services and that those services may be offered at significantly lower prices or bundled with other services. These competitors may have the financial resources to withstand substantial price competition, may be in a better position to endure difficult economic conditions in international markets and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Moreover, many of our c ompetitors have more extensive customer bases, broader customer relationships and broader industry alliances than we do that they could use to their advantage in competitive situations. The markets in which we operate have limited barriers to entry, and we expect that we will face additional competition from existing competitors and new market entrants in the future. Moreover, our current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products and services to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. The potential strategic relationships of existing and new competitors may rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business and financial condition. If our products and services are not accepted in developing countries with emerging markets, our revenues will be impaired. We anticipate that a substantial portion of the growth in the demand for our products and services will come from customers in developing countries due to a lack of basic communications infrastructure in these countries. However, we cannot guarantee an increase in the demand for our products and services in developing countries or that customers in these countries will accept our products and services at all. Our ability to penetrate emerging markets in developing countries is dependent upon various factors including: • the speed at which communications infrastructure, including terrestrial microwave, coaxial cable and fiber optic communications systems, which compete with satellite-based services, is built; • the effectiveness of our local resellers and sales representatives in marketing and selling our products and services; and • the acceptance of our products and services by customers. If our products and services are not accepted, or the market potential we anticipate does not develop, our revenues will be impaired. We have had a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. Negative cash flows may occur as we pursue our business plan and our losses may reoccur, which may strain our capital resources. Although we have been profitable, we had incurred significant net losses in the past and may incur negative cash flows from operations. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend upon our ability to generate significant revenues through new profitable customer contracts and the expansion of our existing products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new profitable customer contracts or generate significant additional revenues from those contracts or any new products or services that we introduce. In the past, we have incurred significant negative cash flows, which may reoccur if our business plan is not successful. Also, if we are unable to sustain or increase our profits on a quarterly or annual basis in the future or if our business undergoes a period of rapid growth, our operating cash flows may be negatively impacted. 16 Since sales of satellite communications equipment are dependent on the growth of communications networks, if market demand for these networks declines, our revenue and profitability are likely to decline. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant amount of revenues from the sale of satellite infrastructure solutions. If the long-term growth in demand for communications networks does not continue to return from recent depressed levels, the demand for our infrastructure solutions may decline or grow more slowly than we expect. As a result, we may not be able to grow our business, our revenues may decline from current levels and our results of operations may be harmed. The demand for communications networks and the products used in these networks is affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, the uncertain general economic conditions have affected the overall rate of capital spending by many of our customers. Also, many companies have found it difficult to raise capital to finish building their communications networks and, therefore, have placed fewer orders. Past economic slowdowns resulted in a softening of dema nd from our customers. We cannot predict the extent to which demand will increase. Further, increased competition among satellite ground segment systems and network manufacturers has increased pricing pressures. We depend upon certain key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees. If we lose the services of these individuals or cannot hire additional qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. Our success also depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly-qualified personnel. There is considerable competition for the services of highly-qualified technical and engineering personnel. We may not be able either to retain our current personnel or hire additional qualified personnel if and when needed. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, managerial and marketing personnel; in particular, David Hershberg and Kenneth Miller are key to our success based upon their individual knowledge of the markets in which we operate. The employment of any of our key personnel could cease at any time. Satellites upon which we rely may malfunction or be damaged or lost. In the delivery of our services, we lease space segment from various satellite transponder vendors. The damage or loss of any of the satellites used by us, or the temporary or permanent malfunction of any of the satellites upon which we rely, would likely result in the interruption of our satellite-based communications services. This interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are our sole or a limited source of supply, and the loss of these suppliers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently obtain most of our critical components and services from limited sources and generally do not maintain significant inventories or have long-term or exclusive supply contracts with our vendors. We have from time to time experienced delays in receiving products from vendors due to lack of availability, quality control or manufacturing problems, shortages of materials or components or product design difficulties. We may experience delays in the future and replacement services or products may not be available when needed, or at all, or at commercially reasonable rates or prices. If we were to change some of our vendors, we would have to perform additional testing procedures on the service or product supplied by the new vendors, which would prevent or delay the availability of our products and services. Furthermore, our costs could increase significantly if we need to change vendors. If we do not receive timely deliveries of quality products and services , or if there are significant increases in the prices of these products or services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Our network may experience security breaches, which could disrupt our services. Our network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks and similar disruptive problems caused by our customers or other Internet users. Computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks or other problems caused by third parties could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation in service to our customers. There currently is no existing technology that provides absolute security. We may face liability to customers for such security breaches. Furthermore, these incidents could deter potential customers and adversely affect existing customer relationships. If the satellite communications industry fails to continue to develop or new technology makes it obsolete, our business and financial condition will be harmed. Our business is dependent on the continued success and development of satellite communications technology, which competes with terrestrial communications transport technologies like terrestrial microwave, coaxial cable and fiber optic communications systems. Fiber optic communications systems have penetrated areas in which we have traditionally provided services. If the satellite communications industry fails to continue to develop, or if any technological development significantly improves the cost or efficiency of competing terrestrial systems relative to satellite systems, then our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We may not be able to keep pace with technological changes, which would make our products and services become non-competitive and obsolete. The telecommunications industry, including satellite-based communications services, is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services in a timely manner or in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our products and services would become non-competitive and obsolete, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to raise additional funds to meet our capital requirements in the future. We believe that our available cash resources will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements through at least June 30, 2008. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict, as they depend on numerous factors, including the success of our existing product and service offerings, as well as competing technological and market developments. We may need to raise additional funds in order to meet additional working capital requirements and to support additional capital expenditures or acquisition of assets or a business. Should this need arise, additional funds may not be available when needed and, even if additional funds are available, we may not find the terms favorable or commercially reasonable. If adequate funds are unavailable, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our operating activities, including, without limitation, the timing and extent of our marketing pr ograms, capital expenditures and research and development activities and we may be required to reduce headcount. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders will own a smaller percentage of our capital stock and new investors may pay less on average for their securities than, and could have rights superior to, existing stockholders. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may damage our business. We regard our trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as beneficial to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may damage our business. We rely on trademark, trade secret and patent protection and contracts, including confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, strategic collaborators, consultants and others, to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without our authorization. We currently have been granted six patents in the United States, one for remote access to the Internet using satellites, one for satellite communication with automatic frequency control, one for a monitor and 18 control system for satellite communications networks and the like, one for implementing facsimile and data communications using Internet protocols and two for a dish antenna kit including alignment tool. We have one other patent pending in the United States for a distributed satellite-based cellular network. We currently have one Patent Cooperation Treaty patent application pending for implementing facsimile and data communications using Internet protocols. We also intend to seek further patents on our technology, if appropriate. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued for any of our pending or future patent applications or that any claims allowed from such applications will be of sufficient scope, or be issued in all countries where our products and services can be sold, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Also, our competitors may be able to design around our patents. The laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services are or may be developed, manu factured or sold may not protect our products and services or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products and services more likely. We have filed applications for trademark registration of Globecomm Systems Inc., Globecomm and GSI in the United States and various other countries, and have been granted registrations for some of these terms in the United States, Europe and Russia. We have various other trademarks and service marks registered or pending for registration in the United States and in other countries and may seek registration of other trademarks and service marks in the future. We cannot assure you that registrations will be granted from any of our pending or future applications, or that any registrations that are granted will prevent others from using similar trademarks in connection with related goods and services. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time consuming and expensive, and if we are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. We cannot be sure that the products, services, technologies and advertising we employ in our business do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. Prosecuting infringers and defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time consuming and expensive, and regardless of whether we are or are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability and/or may materially disrupt the conduct of, or necessitate the cessation of, segments of our business. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. From July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007, our stock price ranged from a low of $6.30 per share to a high of $15.05 per share. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many telecommunications and high technology industry companies, could be subject to significant fluctuations and is likely to remain volatile based on many factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of new technology, products or services by us or any of our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • general market conditions; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. Additionally, numerous factors relating to our business may cause fluctuations or declines in our stock price. The stock markets in general and the markets for telecommunications stocks in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 19 Because our common stock is thinly traded, it may be difficult to sell shares of our common stock into the markets without experiencing significant price volatility. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. Because of the relatively small number of shares that are traded, it may be difficult for an investor to find a purchaser for shares of our common stock without experiencing significant price volatility. We cannot guarantee that an active trading market will develop, that our common stock will have a higher trading volume than it has historically had or that it will maintain its current market price. This illiquidity could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. A third party could be prevented from acquiring shares of our stock at a premium to the market price because of our anti-takeover provisions. Various provisions with respect to votes in the election of directors, special meetings of stockholders, and advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, we have a poison pill in place and employment provisions with our senior executives that have change of control provisions that could make an acquisition of us by a third party more difficult. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects and other factors as the board of directors might deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Risks Related to Government Approvals We are subject to many government regulations, and failure to comply with them will harm our business. Operations and Use of Satellites We are subject to various federal laws and regulations, which may have negative effects on our business. We operate FCC licensed earth stations in Hauppauge, New York, and Laurel, Maryland subject to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the ‘‘FCC Act’’), and the rules and regulations of FCC. Pursuant to the FCC Act and rules, we have obtained and are required to maintain radio transmission licenses from the FCC for both domestic and foreign operations of our earth stations. We have also obtained and maintain authorization issued under Section 214 of the FCC Act to act as a telecommunications carrier, which authorization also extends to GNSC. These licenses should be renewed by the FCC in the normal course as long as we remain in compliance with FCC rules and regulations. Additionally, we have applied to the FCC, in cooperation with Lyman Bros., Inc., for the transfer of the FCC licenses for our Laurel, Maryland teleport facility. T his transfer should be approved by the FCC in the normal course. However, we cannot guarantee that the FCC will grant additional licenses when our existing licenses expire or approve the transfer of the licenses for our Laurel, Maryland facility, nor are we assured that the FCC will not adopt new or modified technical requirements that will require us to incur expenditures to modify or upgrade our equipment as a condition of retaining our licenses. We are also required to comply with FCC regulations regarding the exposure of humans to radio frequency radiation from our earth stations. These regulations, as well as local land use regulations, restrict our freedom to choose where to locate our earth stations. In addition, prior to a third party acquisition of us, we would need to seek approval from the FCC to transfer the radio transmission licenses we have obtained to the third party upon the consummation of the acquisition. However, we cannot assure you that the FCC will permit the transfer of these licenses . These approvals may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. 20 Foreign Regulations Regulatory schemes in countries in which we may seek to provide our satellite-delivered services may impose impediments on our operations. Some countries in which we intend to operate have telecommunications laws and regulations that do not currently contemplate technical advances in telecommunications technology like Internet/intranet transmission by satellite. We cannot assure you that the present regulatory environment in any of those countries will not be changed in a manner that may have a material adverse impact on our business. Either we or our local partners typically must obtain authorization from each country in which we provide our satellite-delivered services. The regulatory schemes in each country are different, and thus there may be instances of noncompliance of which we are not aware. We cannot assure you that our licenses and approvals are or will remain sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that necessary licenses and appr ovals will be granted on a timely basis in all jurisdictions in which we wish to offer our products and services or that restrictions applicable thereto will not be unduly burdensome. Regulation of the Internet Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted at the local, national or international levels with respect to the Internet, covering issues including user privacy and expression, pricing of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, information security or the convergence of traditional communication services with Internet communications. It is anticipated that a substantial portion of our Internet operations will be carried out in countries that may impose greater regulation of the content of information coming into the country than that which is generally applicable in the United States, including but not limited to privacy regulations in numerous European countries and content restrictions in countries such as the People’s Republic of China. To the extent that we provide content as a part of our Internet services, it will be subject to laws re gulating content. Moreover, the adoption of laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our Internet services or increase our cost of doing business or in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the applicability of existing laws governing issues including property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, court jurisdiction and personal privacy to the Internet is uncertain. The vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, the laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes, could create uncertainty in the marketplace which could reduce demand for our products and services, could increase our cost of doing business a s a result of costs of litigation or increased product development costs, or could in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Telecommunications Taxation, Support Requirements, and Access Charges Telecommunications carriers providing domestic services in the United States are required to contribute a portion of their gross revenues for the support of universal telecommunications services, telecommunications relay services for the deaf, and/or other regulatory fees. We are subject to some of these fees, and we may be subject to other fees or new or increased taxes and contribution requirements that could affect our profitability, particularly if we are not able to pass them through to customers for either competitive or regulatory reasons. Internet services are currently exempt from charges that long distance telephone companies pay for access to the networks of local telephone companies in the United States. Efforts have been made from time to time, and may be made again in the future, to eliminate this exemption. If these access charges are imposed on telephone lines used to reach Internet service providers and/or if flat rate telephone services for Internet access are eliminated or curtailed, the cost to customers who access our satellite facilities using telephone company-provided facilities could increase to an extent that could discourage the demand for our services. Likewise, the demand for our services in other countries may be affected by the availability and cost of local telephone or other telecommunications facilities to reach our facilities. 21 Export of Telecommunications Equipment The sale of our infrastructure solutions outside the United States is subject to compliance with the regulations of the United States Export Administration and, in certain circumstances, with International Traffic in Arms regulations. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, in order to ship our products into and implement our services in some countries, the products must satisfy the technical requirements of that particular country. If we were unable to comply with such requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in those countries could be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign Ownership We may, in the future, be required to seek FCC or other government approval if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain specified criteria. Failure to comply with these policies could result in an order to divest the offending foreign ownership, fines, denial of license renewal and/or license revocation proceedings against the licensee by the FCC, or denial of certain contracts from other United States Government Agencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff comments. None. 