Item 1A Risk Factors. The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time-to-time. Debt market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Because interest rate levels and the availability of financing may affect real estate values, occupancy levels, property income and the propensity and the ability of investors to invest in Sponsored REITs, debt market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. The debt market is currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions, including reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants. These conditions, which increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt, may continue or worsen in the future. At this time we cannot predict the extent or duration of any negative impact that the current debt market conditions will have on our earnings and financial condition. 4 If we are not able to collect sufficient rents from each of our owned real properties or interest on secured loans we fund, we may suffer significant operating losses or a reduction in cash available for future dividends. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated by the rental income of our real properties. If our properties do not provide us with a steady rental income or we do not collect interest income from loans we fund, our revenues will decrease, which may cause us to incur operating losses in the future. We may not be able to find properties that meet our criteria for purchase. Growth in our investment banking/investment services business and our portfolio of real estate is dependent on the ability of our acquisition executives to find properties for sale and/or development which meet our investment criteria. To the extent they fail to find such properties, we will be unable to syndicate offerings of Sponsored REITs to investors, and this segment of our business could have lower revenue, and we would be unable to increase the size of our portfolio of real estate, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we are unable to fully syndicate a Sponsored REIT, we may be required to keep a balance outstanding on our line of credit or use our cash balance to repay our line of credit, which may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We typically draw on our line of credit to make an interim mortgage loan to a Sponsored REIT, so that it can acquire real property prior to the consummation of the offering of its equity interests; this interim loan is typically secured by a first mortgage against the real property acquired by the Sponsored REIT. Once the offering has been completed, the Sponsored REIT typically repays the loan out of the offering proceeds. If we are unable to fully syndicate a Sponsored REIT, the Sponsored REIT could be unable to fully repay the loan, and we would have to satisfy our obligation under our line of credit through other means. If we are required to use cash for this purpose, we would have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A default under our line of credit could have a material adverse effect on the cash available for distribution to our stockholders and would limit our growth. We typically draw on our line of credit to make an interim mortgage loan to a Sponsored REIT, so that the Sponsored REIT can acquire real property prior to the consummation of the offering of such Sponsored REIT’s equity interests. Once the offering has been completed, the Sponsored REIT typically repays the loan out of the offering proceeds. We also may use the line of credit to purchase properties directly for our real estate portfolio or to make loans to Sponsored REITs or for other corporate purposes. A default under our line of credit could result in difficulty financing growth in both the investment banking/investment services and real estate segments of our business. It could also result in a reduction in the cash available for distribution to our stockholders because revenue for our investment banking/investment services segment is directly related to the amount of equity raised by Sponsored REITs which we syndicate. In addition, a significant part of our growth strategy is to acquire additional real properties by cash purchase or by acquisition of Sponsored REITs, and the inability to utilize the line of credit would make it substantially more difficult to pursue acquisitions by either method. To the extent we have a balance outstanding on the line of credit on the date of its default, we would have to satisfy our obligation through other means. If we are required to use cash for this purpose, we would have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on any variable rate advances under our line of credit and could adversely impact our ability to refinance our line of credit or sell assets. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $84.8 million of indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate under our line of credit, and we may incur more of such indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will the cost of any variable rate advances under our line of credit, which could adversely affect our cash flow and decrease the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance our line of credit when it matures in 2011. Rising interest rates could also decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. 5 In response to this interest rate risk, in the future we may enter into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging contracts, including interest rate caps and floors. While these agreements would be intended to lessen the impact of rising interest rates on us, they could also expose us to certain risks, including the risk that the other parties to the agreements would not perform, the risk that the agreements would be unenforceable and the risk that the underlying transactions would fail to qualify as highly-effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended”. We face risks in continuing to attract investors for Sponsored REITs. Our investment banking/investment services business continues to depend upon its ability to attract purchasers of equity interests in Sponsored REITs. Our success in this area will depend on the propensity and ability of investors who have previously invested in Sponsored REITs to continue to invest in future Sponsored REITs and on our ability to expand the investor pool for the Sponsored REITs by identifying new potential investors. Moreover, our investment banking/investment services business may be affected to the extent existing Sponsored REITs incur losses or have operating results that fail to meet investors’ expectations. We are dependent on key personnel. We depend on the efforts of George J. Carter, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director; Barbara J. Fournier, our Chief Operating Officer, Treasurer, Secretary, a Vice President and a Director; John G. Demeritt, our Chief Financial Officer; Janet Prier Notopoulos, a Vice President and a Director; R. Scott MacPhee, an Executive Vice President; and William W. Gribbell, an Executive Vice President. If any of our executive officers were to resign, our operations could be adversely affected. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Our level of dividends may fluctuate. Because our investment banking/investment services business is transactional in nature and real estate occupancy levels and rental rates can fluctuate, there is no predictable recurring level of revenue from such activities. As a result of this, the amount of cash available for distribution may fluctuate, which may result in us not being able to maintain or grow dividend levels in the future. We face risks from tenant defaults or bankruptcies. If any of our tenants defaults on its lease, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as a landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. In addition, at any time, a tenant of one of our properties may seek the protection of bankruptcy laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such tenant’s lease and thereby cause a reduction in cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The real properties held by us may significantly decrease in value. As of February 22, 2008, we owned 26 properties. Some or all of these properties may decline in value. To the extent our real properties decline in value, our stockholders could lose some or all of the value of their investments. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected if the real properties held by us decline in value since these real properties represent the majority of the tangible assets held by us. Moreover, if we are forced to sell or lease the real property held by us below its initial purchase price or its carrying costs or if we are forced to lease real property at below market rates because of the condition of the property, our results of operations would be adversely affected and such negative results of operations may result in lower dividends being paid to holders of our common stock. 6 New acquisitions may fail to perform as expected. We may acquire new properties, whether by direct FSP Corp. purchase with cash or our line of credit, by acquisition of Sponsored REITs or other entities by cash or through the issuance of shares of our stock or by investment in a Sponsored REIT. We acquired the four 2005 Target REITs and the properties they owned on April 30, 2005, a property in Colorado in February 2005, another property in Indiana in July 2005 and another property in Texas in February 2006. We also acquired the five 2006 Target REITs and the properties they owned on April 30, 2006, a property in Georgia in June 2006 and a property in Colorado in December 2006. We acquired a property in Maryland in June 2007. Newly acquired properties may fail to perform as expected, in which case, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We face risks in owning, developing and operating real property. An investment in us is subject to the risks incident to the ownership, development and operation of real estate-related assets. These risks include the fact that real estate investments are generally illiquid, which may affect our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, as well as the risks normally associated with: · changes in general and local economic conditions; · the supply or demand for particular types of properties in particular markets; · changes in market rental rates; · the impact of environmental protection laws; · changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws; and · the impact of obligations and restrictions contained in title-related documents. Certain significant costs, such as real estate taxes, utilities, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property’s rental income is reduced. In addition, environmental and tax laws, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and other factors may affect real estate values and property income. Furthermore, the supply of commercial space fluctuates with market conditions. We may encounter significant delays in reletting vacant space, resulting in losses of income. When leases expire, we will incur expenses and may not be able to re-lease the space on the same terms. Certain leases provide tenants the right to terminate early if they pay a fee. If we are unable to re-lease space promptly, if the terms are significantly less favorable than anticipated or if the costs are higher, we may have to reduce distributions to our stockholders. Typical lease terms range from five to ten years, so up to approximately 20% of our rental revenue from commercial properties could be expected to expire each year. We face risks from geographic concentration. The properties in our portfolio as of December 31, 2007, by aggregate square footage, are distributed geographically as follows: Southwest – 27%, Northeast – 17%, Midwest – 19%, West – 22% and Southeast – 15%. However, within certain of those regions, we hold a larger concentration of our properties in Dallas, Texas – 19%, Greater Denver, Colorado – 14%, Atlanta, Georgia – 8% and Houston, Texas – 8%. We are likely to face risks to the extent that any of these areas in which we hold a larger concentration of our properties suffer deteriorating economic conditions. We compete with national, regional and local real estate operators and developers, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Competition exists in every market in which our properties are currently located and in every market in which properties we may acquire in the future will be located. We compete with, among others, national, regional and numerous local real estate operators and developers. Such competition may adversely affect the percentage of leased space and the rental revenues of our properties, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders. Some of our competitors may have more 7 resources than we do or other competitive advantages. Competition may be accelerated by any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate. For example, decreases in interest rates tend to increase the availability of funds and therefore can increase competition. To the extent that our properties continue to operate profitably, this will likely stimulate new development of competing properties. The extent to which we are affected by competition will depend in significant part on local market conditions. There is limited potential for revenue to increase from an increase in leased space in our properties. We anticipate that future increases in revenue from our properties will be primarily the result of scheduled rental rate increases or rental rate increases as leases expire. Properties with higher rates of vacancy are generally located in soft economic markets so that it may be difficult to realize increases in revenue when vacant space is re-leased. We are subject to possible liability relating to environmental matters, and we cannot assure you that we have identified all possible liabilities. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in its property. Such laws may impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell such property or to borrow using such property as collateral, and it may cause the owner of the property to incur substantial remediation costs. In addition to claims for cleanup costs, the presence of hazardous substances on a property could result in the owner incurring substantial liabilities as a result of a claim by a private party for personal injury or a claim by an adjacent property owner for property damage. In addition, we cannot assure you that: · future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability; · the current environmental conditions of our properties will not be affected by the condition of properties in the vicinity of such properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us; · tenants will not violate their leases by introducing hazardous or toxic substances into our properties that could expose us to liability under federal or state environmental laws; or · environmental conditions, such as the growth of bacteria and toxic mold in heating and ventilation systems or on walls, will not occur at our properties and pose a threat to human health. We are subject to compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, any of which could require us to make significant capital expenditures. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), and the regulations, rules and orders that may be issued thereunder. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. Compliance with ADA requirements might require, among other things, removal of access barriers and noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. Compliance with such requirements may require us to make substantial capital expenditures, which expenditures would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to our stockholders. 8 We face risks associated with our Tenants being designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned (“Prohibited Persons”). OFAC regulations and other laws prohibit conducting business or engaging in transactions with Prohibited Persons (the “OFAC Requirements”). Our current leases and certain other agreements require the other party to comply with the OFAC Requirements. If a tenant or other party with whom we contract is placed on the OFAC list we may be required by the OFAC Requirements to terminate the lease or other agreement. Any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or a damage claim by the other party that the termination was wrongful. Actual or threatened terrorist attacks may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties. We have significant investments in markets that may be the targets of actual or threatened terrorism attacks in the future. As a result, some tenants in these markets may choose to relocate their businesses to other markets or to lower-profile office buildings within these markets that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity. This could result in an overall decrease in the demand for office space in these markets generally or in our properties in particular, which could increase vacancies in our properties or necessitate that we lease our properties on less favorable terms or both. In addition, future terrorist attacks in these markets could directly or indirectly damage our properties, both physically and financially, or cause losses that materially exceed our insurance coverage. As a result of the foregoing, our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties could decline materially. See also “—We may lose capital investment or anticipated profits if an uninsured event occurs.” We may lose capital investment or anticipated profits if an uninsured event occurs. We carry, or our tenants carry, comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage with respect to each of our properties, with policy specification and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured material loss occur, we could lose both capital invested in the property and anticipated profits. Contingent or unknown liabilities acquired in mergers or similar transactions could require us to make substantial payments. The properties which we acquired in mergers were acquired subject to liabilities and without any recourse with respect to liabilities, whether known or unknown. As a result, if liabilities were asserted against us based upon any of these properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle them, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: · liabilities for clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions; · claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; and · liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Our employee retention plan may prevent changes in control. During February 2006, our Board of Directors approved a change in control plan, which included a form of retention agreement and discretionary payment plan. Payments under the discretionary plan are capped at 1% of the market capitalization of FSP Corp. as reduced by the amount paid under the retention plan. The costs associated with these two components of the plan may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change in control under circumstances that could otherwise give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a greater premium over the then-prevailing market prices. 9 The price of our common stock may vary. The market prices for our common stock may fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, including the market perception of REITs in general, and changes in the financial condition of our securities. Such fluctuations may depress the market price of our common stock independent of the financial performance of FSP Corp. The market conditions for REIT stocks generally could affect the market price of our common stock. We would incur adverse tax consequences if we failed to qualify as a REIT. The provisions of the tax code governing the taxation of real estate investment trusts are very technical and complex, and although we expect that we will be organized and will operate in a manner that will enable us to meet such requirements, no assurance can be given that we will always succeed in doing so. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of the target REITs pursuant to the mergers, we might no longer qualify as a real estate investment trust. We could lose our ability to so qualify for a variety of reasons relating to the nature of the assets acquired from the target REITs, the identity of the stockholders of the target REITs who become our stockholders or the failure of one or more of the target REITs to have previously qualified as a real estate investment trust. Moreover, you should note that if one or more of the REITs that we acquired in April 2006, April 2005 or June 2003 did not qualify as a real estate investment trust immediately prior to the consummation of its acquisition, we could be disqualified as a REIT as a result of such acquisition. If in any taxable year we do not qualify as a real estate investment trust, we would be taxed as a corporation and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. In addition, if we were to fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we could be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust in the year in which such failure occurred and for the next four taxable years and, consequently, we would be taxed as a regular corporation during such years. Failure to qualify for even one taxable year could result in a significant reduction of our cash available for distribution to our stockholders or could require us to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to generate sufficient funds to pay the resulting federal income tax liabilities. Provisions in our organizational documents may prevent changes in control. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions, described below, which may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may thereby inhibit a change of control under circumstances that could otherwise give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices. Ownership Limits. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust, the holders of our common stock may be limited to owning, either directly or under applicable attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 9.8% of the lesser of the value or the number of our equity shares, and no holder of common stock may acquire or transfer shares that would result in our shares of common stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons. Such ownership limit may have the effect of preventing an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors. Our Articles of Incorporation give our board of directors the right to refuse to give effect to the acquisition or transfer of shares by a stockholder in violation of these provisions. Staggered Board. Our board of directors is divided into three classes. The terms of these classes will expire in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Directors of each class are elected for a three-year term upon the expiration of the initial term of each class. The staggered terms for directors may affect our stockholders’ ability to effect a change in control even if a change in control were in the stockholders’ best interests. Preferred Stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share, and to establish the preferences and rights of any such shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interest. 10 Increase of Authorized Stock. Our board of directors, without any vote or consent of the stockholders, may increase the number of authorized shares of any class or series of stock or the aggregate number of authorized shares we have authority to issue. The ability to increase the number of authorized shares and issue such shares could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interest. Amendment of Bylaws. Our board of directors has the sole power to amend our Bylaws. This power could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interests. Stockholder Meetings. Our Bylaws require advance notice for stockholder proposals to be considered at annual meetings of stockholders and for stockholder nominations for election of directors at special meetings of stockholders. Our Bylaws also provide that stockholders entitled to cast more than 50% of all the votes entitled to be cast at a meeting must join in a request by stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in the best interests of our stockholders. Supermajority Votes Required. Our Articles of Incorporation require the affirmative vote of the holders of no less than 80% of the shares of capital stock outstanding and entitled to vote in order (i) to amend the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation relating to the classification of directors, removal of directors, limitation of liability of officers and directors or indemnification of officers and directors or (ii) to amend our Articles of Incorporation to impose cumulative voting in the election of directors. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Item 