Risk Factors If we fail to obtain a desirable mix of popular new vehicles from manufacturers our profitability will be negatively affected. We depend on the manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of new vehicles. The most popular vehicles usually produce the highest profit margins and are frequently difficult to obtain from the manufacturers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular models, our profitability may be adversely affected. Sales of less desirable models may reduce our profit margins. Several manufacturers generally allocate their vehicles among their franchised dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership. If our dealerships experience prolonged sales slumps, these manufacturers may cut back their allotments of popular vehicles to our dealerships and new vehicle sales and profits may decline. Similarly, the delivery of vehicles, particularly newer, more popular vehicles, from manufacturers at a time later than scheduled could lead to reduced sales during those periods. If we fail to obtain renewals of one or more of our franchise agreements on favorable terms or substantial franchises are terminated, our operations may be significantly impaired. Each of our dealerships operates under a franchise agreement with one of our manufacturers (or authorized distributors). Without a franchise agreement, we cannot obtain new vehicles from a manufacturer. As a result, we are significantly dependent on our relationships with these manufacturers, which exercise a great degree of influence over our operations through the franchise agreements. Each of our franchise agreements may be terminated or not renewed by the manufacturer for a variety of reasons, including any unapproved changes of ownership or management and other material breaches of the franchise agreements. Manufacturers may also have a right of first refusal if we seek to sell dealerships. We cannot guarantee all of our franchise agreements will be renewed or that the terms of the renewals will be as favorable to us as our current agreements. In addition, actions taken by manufacturers to exploit their bargaining position in negotiating the terms of renewals of franchise agreements or otherwise could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our franchise rights become compromised or our operations restricted due to the terms of our franchise agreements or if we lose substantial franchises. Our franchise agreements do not give us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. As a result, a manufacturer may grant another dealer a franchise to start a new dealership near one of our locations, or an existing dealership may move its dealership to a location that would directly compete against us. The location of new dealerships near our existing dealerships could materially adversely affect our operations and reduce the profitability of our existing dealerships. Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions may limit our future growth. We must obtain the consent of the manufacturer prior to the acquisition of any of its dealership franchises. Delays in obtaining, or failing to obtain, manufacturer approvals for dealership acquisitions could adversely affect our acquisition program. Obtaining the consent of a manufacturer for the acquisition of a dealership could take a significant amount of time or might be rejected entirely. In determining whether to approve an acquisition, manufacturers may consider many factors, including the moral character and business 12 experience of the dealership principals and the financial condition, ownership structure, customer satisfaction index scores and other performance measures of our dealerships. Our manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with automobile dealerships through systems generally known as the customer satisfaction index or CSI. Manufacturers may use these performance indicators, as well as sales performance numbers, as factors in evaluating applications for additional acquisitions. The manufacturers have modified the components of their CSI scores from time to time in the past, and they may replace them with different systems at any time. From time to time, we may not meet all of the manufacturers’ requirements to make acquisitions. We cannot assure you that all of our proposed future acquisitions will be approved. In addition, a manufacturer may limit the number of its dealerships that we may own or the number that we may own in a particular geographic area. If we reach a limitation imposed by a manufacturer for a particular geographic market, we will be unable to make additional tuck-in acquisitions of that manufacturer’s franchises in that market, which could limit our ability to grow in that geographic area. In addition, geographic limitations imposed by manufacturers could restrict our ability to make geographic acquisitions involving markets that overlap with those we already serve. The following is a summary of the restrictions imposed by those manufacturers that accounted for approximately 10% or more of our new vehicle retail unit sales in 2005: Toyota/ Lexus. Toyota restricts the number of dealerships that we may own and the time frame over which we may acquire them. Under Toyota’s standard Multiple Ownership Agreement, we may acquire additional dealerships, over a minimum of seven semi-annual periods, up to a maximum number of dealerships equal to 5% of Toyota’s aggregate national annual retail sales volume. In addition, Toyota restricts the number of Toyota dealerships that we may acquire in any Toyota-defined region and “Metro” market, as well as any contiguous market. We may acquire only four primary Lexus dealerships or six outlets nationally, including only two Lexus dealerships in any one of the four Lexus geographic areas. Our Lexus companion dealership located south of Houston is not considered by Lexus to be a primary Lexus dealership for purposes of the restriction on the number of Lexus dealerships we may acquire. At December 31, 2005, we owned 11 Toyota dealership franchises, representing approximately 1.6% of the national retail sales of Toyota for 2005, and two primary Lexus dealership franchises. We acquired a twelfth Toyota dealership and a third primary Lexus dealership in January 2006. Under the terms of our current agreement with Toyota, we own the maximum number of Toyota dealerships we are currently permitted to own in the Gulf States region, which is comprised of Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas. As a result of our January 2006 acquisition, we also now own the maximum number of Toyota dealerships we are currently permitted to own in the Boston region, which is comprised of Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. Ford. Ford currently limits the number of dealerships that we may own to the greater of (a) 15 Ford and 15 Lincoln and Mercury dealerships and (b) that number of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury dealerships accounting for 5% of the preceding year’s total Ford, Lincoln and Mercury retail sales of those brands in the United States. At December 31, 2005, we owned a total of 25 Ford, Lincoln and Mercury dealership franchises, representing approximately 0.7% of the national retail sales of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury for 2005. In addition, Ford limits us to one Ford dealership in a Ford-defined market area having two or less authorized Ford dealerships and one-third of the Ford dealerships in any Ford-defined market area having more than three authorized Ford dealerships. In many of its dealership franchise agreements Ford has the right of first refusal to acquire, subject to applicable state law, a Ford franchised dealership when its ownership changes. Currently, Ford is emphasizing increased sales performance from all of its franchised dealers, including our Ford dealerships. To this end, Ford has requested that we focus on the performance of owned dealerships as opposed to acquiring additional Ford dealerships. We intend to comply with this request. DaimlerChrysler. Currently, we have no agreement with DaimlerChrysler restricting our ability to acquire Chrysler, Jeep or Dodge dealerships. DaimlerChrysler has advised us that, in determining whether to approve an acquisition of additional dealerships, they consider the number of dealerships the acquiring company already owns. DaimlerChrysler currently carefully considers, on a case-by-case basis, any acquisition 13 that would cause the acquiring company to own more than 10 Chrysler, Jeep or Dodge dealerships nationally, six in the same DaimlerChrysler-defined zone and two in the same market. Our agreement with respect to Mercedes-Benz, in addition to limitations on the number of dealership franchises in particular metropolitan markets and regions, limits us to a maximum of the greater of four Mercedes-Benz dealership franchises or the number of dealership franchises that would account for up to 3% of the preceding year’s total Mercedes-Benz retail sales. At December 31, 2005, we owned 32 DaimlerChrysler (including Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge franchises), three Mercedes-Benz and one Maybach dealership franchise. Our three Mercedes-Benz dealership franchises represented approximately 1.5% of total Mercedes-Benz retail sales in 2005. Nissan/ Infiniti. Nissan currently limits the number of dealerships that we may own to a maximum number of dealerships that would equal 5% of Nissan’s (or Infiniti’s, as applicable) aggregate national annual vehicle registrations. In addition, Nissan restricts the number of dealerships that we may own in any Nissan-defined region to 20% of the aggregate regional registrations for the applicable area. At December 31, 2005, we owned nine Nissan franchises and one Infiniti franchise, representing approximately 1.3% of the combined national vehicle registrations for Nissan and Infiniti. General Motors. General Motors, or GM, currently evaluates our acquisitions of GM dealerships on a case-by-case basis. GM, however, limits the maximum number of GM dealerships that we may acquire at any time to 50% of the GM dealerships, by franchise line, in a GM-defined geographic market area. At December 31, 2005, we owned 24 GM dealership franchises. We disposed of one franchise in January 2006. Additionally, our current agreement with GM does not include Saturn dealerships and any future acquisition of a Saturn dealership will be subject to GM approval on a case-by-case basis. Honda/ Acura. American Honda currently limits the number of Honda dealerships that we may own to a maximum number in each of its ten zones in the United States. It also limits us to an agreed upon maximum percentage of its aggregate annual vehicle sales, both on national basis and in any single zone. Further, American Honda limits the number of Acura dealerships that we may own to five in total. At December 31, 2005, we did not approach any of these limitations. At December 31, 2005, we owned six Honda franchises and two Acura franchises. Manufacturers’ restrictions could negatively impact our ability to obtain certain types of financings. Provisions in our agreements with our manufacturers may, in the future, restrict our ability to obtain certain types of financing. A number of our manufacturers prohibit pledging the stock of their franchised dealerships. For example, our agreement with GM contains provisions prohibiting pledging the stock of our GM franchised dealerships. Our agreement with Ford permits pledging our Ford franchised dealerships’ stock and assets, but only for Ford dealership-related debt. Moreover, our Ford agreement permits our Ford franchised dealerships to guarantee, and to use Ford franchised dealership assets to secure, our debt, but only for Ford dealership-related debt. Ford waived that requirement with respect to our March 1999 and August 2003 senior subordinated notes offerings and the subsidiary guarantees of those notes. Certain of our manufacturers require us to meet certain financial ratios. Our failure to comply with these ratios gives the manufacturers the right to reject proposed acquisitions, and may give them the right to purchase their franchises for fair value. Certain restrictions relating to our management and ownership of our common stock could deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and adversely affect our ability to engage in equity offerings. As a condition to granting their consent to our previous acquisitions and our initial public offering, some of our manufacturers have imposed other restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit, among other things: • any one person, who in the opinion of the manufacturer is unqualified to own its franchised dealership or has interests incompatible with the manufacturer, from acquiring more than a specified percentage of our common stock (ranging from 20% to 50% depending on the particular manufacturer’s restrictions) and this trigger level can fall to as low as 5% if another vehicle manufacturer is the entity acquiring the ownership interest or voting rights; 14 • certain material changes in our business or extraordinary corporate transactions such as a merger or sale of a material amount of our assets; • the removal of a dealership general manager without the consent of the manufacturer; and • a change in control of our Board of Directors or a change in management. Our manufacturers may also impose additional similar restrictions on us in the future. Actions by our stockholders or prospective stockholders that would violate any of the above restrictions are generally outside our control. If we are unable to comply with or renegotiate these restrictions, we may be forced to terminate or sell one or more franchises, which could have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. These restrictions also may impede our ability to acquire dealership groups, to raise required capital or to issue our stock as consideration for future acquisitions. If manufacturers discontinue sales incentives, warranties and other promotional programs, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We depend on our manufacturers for sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote dealership sales or support dealership profitability. Manufacturers historically have made many changes to their incentive programs during each year. Some of the key incentive programs include: • customer rebates; • dealer incentives on new vehicles; • below-market financing on new vehicles and special leasing terms; • warranties on new and used vehicles; and • sponsorship of used vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers. A discontinuation or change in our manufacturers’ incentive programs could adversely affect our business. Moreover, some manufacturers use a dealership’s CSI scores as a factor governing participation in incentive programs. Failure to comply with the CSI standards could adversely affect our participation in dealership incentive programs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our manufacturers require us to meet certain image and facility guidelines and to maintain minimum working capital, which may require us to divert financial resources from uses that management believes may be of better value to our stockholders. Our franchise agreements specify that, in certain situations, we cannot operate a dealership franchised by another manufacturer in the same building as that manufacturer’s franchised dealership. In addition, some manufacturers, like GM, are in the process of realigning their franchised dealerships along defined “channels,” such as combining Pontiac, Buick and GMC in one dealership location. As a result, GM, as well as other manufacturers, may require us to move or sell some dealerships. Our manufacturers generally require that the dealership premises meet defined image and facility standards and may direct us to implement costly capital improvements to dealerships as a condition for renewing certain franchise agreements. All of these requirements could impose significant capital expenditures on us in the future. We anticipate spending approximately $9.2 million in 2006 in connection with various manufacturers’ required imaging projects and approximately $42.1 million to expand or relocate existing facilities as required by manufacturer facility guidelines. Pursuant to our franchise agreements, our dealerships are required to maintain a certain minimum working capital, as determined by the manufacturers. This requirement could force us to utilize available capital to maintain manufacturer-required working capital levels at our dealerships thereby limiting our ability to apply profits generated from one subsidiary for use in other subsidiaries or, in some cases, at the parent company. 15 These factors, either alone or in combination, could cause us to divert our financial resources to capital projects from uses that management believes may be of higher long-term value to us. Our success depends upon the continued viability and overall success of a limited number of manufacturers. Toyota/ Lexus, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Nissan/ Infiniti, General Motors and Honda/ Acura dealerships represented approximately 92.8% of our total new vehicle retail sales in 2005. As a result, demand for these manufacturers’ vehicles, as well as the financial condition, management, marketing, production and distribution capabilities, reputation and labor relations of these manufacturers may have a substantial effect on our business. Events such as labor disputes and other production disruptions that adversely affect one of these manufacturers may also have a material adverse effect on us. Similarly, the late delivery of vehicles from manufacturers, which sometimes occurs during periods of new product introductions, can lead to reduced sales during those periods. Moreover, any event that causes adverse publicity involving any of our manufacturers may have an adverse effect on us regardless of whether such event involves any of our dealerships. Finally, the well-publicized financial troubles of certain domestic manufactures, and, more generally, the inability of any manufacturer of vehicles we sell to continue operations, may not only impact our vehicle sales and profitability, but could also result in the partial or complete impairment, and a corresponding write-down, of our recorded goodwill and/or intangible franchise rights. Growth in our revenues and earnings will be impacted by our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate dealerships. Growth in our revenues and earnings depends substantially on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate dealerships. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify and acquire dealerships in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any acquisitions will be successful or on terms and conditions consistent with past acquisitions. Restrictions by our manufacturers, as well as covenants contained in our debt instruments, may directly or indirectly limit our ability to acquire additional dealerships. In addition, increased competition for acquisitions may develop, which could result in fewer acquisition opportunities available to us and/or higher acquisition prices. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than us. We will continue to need substantial capital in order to acquire additional automobile dealerships. In the past, we have financed these acquisitions with a combination of cash flow from operations, proceeds from borrowings under our credit facility, bond issuances, stock offerings, and the issuance of our common stock to the sellers of the acquired dealerships. We currently intend to finance future acquisitions by using cash and issuing shares of our common stock as partial consideration for acquired dealerships. The use of common stock as consideration for acquisitions will depend on three factors: (1) the market value of our common stock at the time of the acquisition, (2) the willingness of potential acquisition candidates to accept common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, and (3) our determination of what is in our best interests. If potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept our common stock, we will rely solely on available cash or proceeds from debt or equity financings, which could adversely affect our acquisition program. Accordingly, our ability to make acquisitions could be adversely affected if the price of our common stock is depressed. In addition, managing and integrating additional dealerships into our existing mix of dealerships may result in substantial costs, diversion of our management’s attention, delays, or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; • entering new markets with which we are not familiar; • incurring undiscovered liabilities at acquired dealerships; 16 • disrupting our ongoing business; • failing to retain key personnel of the acquired dealerships; • impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers; and • incorrectly valuing acquired entities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating condition of the businesses we purchase in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Acquiring legal entities, as opposed to only dealership assets, may subject us to unforeseen liabilities that we are unable to detect prior to completing the acquisition or liabilities that turn out to be greater than those we had expected. These liabilities may include liabilities that arise from non-compliance with environmental laws by prior owners for which we, as a successor owner, will be responsible. Until we actually assume operating control of such business assets, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value of the acquired entity. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their franchise agreements. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a franchise agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or nonrenewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or nonrenewal. Though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealers to renew their franchise agreements upon expiration. In addition, these state dealer laws restrict the ability of automobile manufacturers to directly enter the retail market in the future. If manufacturers obtain the ability to directly retail vehicles and do so in our markets, such competition could have a material adverse effect on us. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected because we rely on the industry knowledge and relationships of our key personnel. We believe our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, senior management and key employees, including our regional vice presidents. Additionally, our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, including the management of acquired dealerships. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. We do not have employment agreements with most of our dealership general managers and other key dealership personnel. The unexpected or unanticipated loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us and materially impair the efficiency and productivity of our operations. We do not have key man insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. In addition, the loss of any of our key employees or the failure to attract qualified managers could have a material adverse effect on our business and may materially impact the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with our national standards. 17 The impairment of our goodwill, our indefinite-lived intangibles and our other long-lived assets has had, and may have in the future, a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we assess goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Based on the organization and management of our business during 2005, we determined that each of our groups of dealerships formerly referred to as platforms qualified as reporting units for the purpose of assessing goodwill for impairment. However, effective January 1, 2006, with our reorganization into five regions, we anticipate that changes in our management, operational and reporting structure and additional changes to be made during 2006 will ultimately lead us to the determination that goodwill will be evaluated at a regional level in the future. To determine the fair value of our reporting units in assessing the carrying value of our goodwill for impairment, we use a discounted cash flow approach. Included in this analysis are assumptions regarding revenue growth rates, future gross margin estimates, future selling, general and administrative expense rates and our weighted average cost of capital. We also must estimate residual values at the end of the forecast period and future capital expenditure requirements. Each of these assumptions requires us to use our knowledge of (a) our industry, (b) our recent transactions, and (c) reasonable performance expectations for our operations. If any one of the above assumptions changes, in some cases insignificantly, or fails to materialize, the resulting decline in our estimated fair value could result in a material impairment charge to the goodwill associated with the applicable reporting unit, especially with respect to those operations acquired prior to July 1, 2001. We are required to evaluate the carrying value of our indefinite-lived, intangible franchise rights at a dealership level. To test the carrying value of each individual intangible franchise right for impairment, we also use a discounted cash flow based approach. Included in this analysis are assumptions, at a dealership level, regarding revenue growth rates, future gross margin estimates and future selling, general and administrative expense rates. Using our weighted average cost of capital, estimated residual values at the end of the forecast period and future capital expenditure requirements, we calculate the fair value of each dealership’s franchise rights after considering estimated values for tangible assets, working capital and workforce. If any one of the above assumptions changes, in some cases insignificantly, or fails to materialize, the resulting decline in our estimated fair value could result in a material impairment charge to the intangible franchise right associated with the applicable dealership. We assess the carrying value of our other long-lived assets, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our profitability. All of the borrowings under our various credit facilities bear interest based on a floating rate. Therefore, our interest expense will rise with increases in interest rates. Rising interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used vehicle sales, because many of our customers finance their vehicle purchases. As a result, rising interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues. We receive credit assistance from certain automobile manufacturers, which is reflected as a reduction in cost of sales on our statements of operations, and we have entered into derivative transactions to convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rates to partially mitigate this risk. Please see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a discussion regarding our interest rate sensitivity. A decline of available financing in the sub-prime lending market has, and may continue to, adversely affect our sales of used vehicles. A significant portion of vehicle buyers, particularly in the used car market, finance their purchases of automobiles. Sub-prime finance companies have historically provided financing for consumers who, for a variety of reasons including poor credit histories and lack of a down payment, do not have access to more 18 traditional finance sources. Our recent experience suggests that sub-prime finance companies have tightened their credit standards and may continue to apply these higher standards in the future. This has adversely affected our used vehicle sales. If sub-prime finance companies continue to apply these higher standards, if there is any further tightening of credit standards used by sub-prime finance companies, or if there is any additional decline in the overall availability of credit in the sub-prime lending market, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our used car business, revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our insurance does not fully cover all of our operational risks, and changes in the cost of insurance or the availability of insurance could materially increase our insurance costs or result in a decrease in our insurance coverage. The operation of automobile dealerships is subject to compliance with a wide range of laws and regulations and is subject to a broad variety of risks. While we have insurance on our real property, comprehensive coverage for our vehicle inventory, general liability insurance, workers’ compensation insurance, employee dishonesty coverage, employment practices liability insurance, pollution coverage and errors and omissions insurance in connection with vehicle sales and financing activities, we are self-insured for a portion of our potential liabilities. In certain instances, our insurance may not fully cover an insured loss depending on the magnitude and nature of the claim. Additionally, changes in the cost of insurance or the availability of insurance in the future could substantially increase our costs to maintain our current level of coverage or could cause us to reduce our insurance coverage and increase the portion of our risks that we self-insure. We are subject to a number of risks associated with importing inventory. A portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, vehicle parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are subject to customary risks associated with imported merchandise, including fluctuations in the value of currencies, import duties, exchange controls, differing tax structures, trade restrictions, transportation costs, work stoppages and general political and economic conditions in foreign countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs on imported merchandise. Any of those impositions or adjustments could affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and parts at reasonable prices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The seasonality of the automobile retail business magnifies the importance of our second- and third-quarter results. The automobile industry experiences seasonal variations in revenues. Demand for automobiles is generally lower during the winter months than in other seasons, particularly in regions of the United States with harsh winters. A higher amount of vehicle sales generally occurs in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year due in part to weather-related factors, consumer buying patterns, the historical timing of major manufacturer incentive programs, and the introduction of new vehicle models. Therefore, if conditions surface in the second or third quarters that depress or affect automotive sales, such as major geopolitical events, high fuel costs, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year will be disproportionately adversely affected. Our dealerships located in the northeastern states are affected by seasonality more than our dealerships in other regions. Our business and the automotive retail industry in general are susceptible to adverse economic conditions, including changes in consumer confidence, fuel prices and credit availability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and profitability. We believe the automotive retail industry is influenced by general economic conditions and particularly by consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary spending, interest rates, fuel prices, unemployment 19 rates and credit availability. Historically, unit sales of motor vehicles, particularly new vehicles, have been cyclical, fluctuating with general economic cycles. During economic downturns, retail new vehicle sales typically experience periods of decline characterized by oversupply and weak demand. Although incentive programs initiated by manufacturers in late 2001 abated these historical trends, the automotive retail industry may experience sustained periods of decline in vehicle sales in the future. Any decline or change of this type could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, cash flows and profitability. In addition, local economic, competitive and other conditions affect the performance of our dealerships. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability depend substantially on general economic conditions and spending habits in those regions of the United States where we maintain most of our operations. Substantial competition in automotive sales and services may adversely affect our profitability due to our need to lower prices to sustain sales and profitability. The automotive retail industry is highly competitive. Depending on the geographic market, we compete with: • franchised automotive dealerships in our markets that sell the same or similar makes of new and used vehicles that we offer, occasionally at lower prices than we do; • other national or regional affiliated groups of franchised dealerships; • private market buyers and sellers of used vehicles; • Internet-based vehicle brokers that sell vehicles obtained from franchised dealers directly to consumers; • service center chain stores; and • independent service and repair shops. We also compete with regional and national vehicle rental companies that sell their used rental vehicles. In addition, automobile manufacturers may directly enter the retail market in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on us. As we seek to acquire dealerships in new markets, we may face significant competition as we strive to gain market share. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and personnel resources and lower overhead and sales costs than we have. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from vehicle manufacturers and typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location in order to sell new vehicles. Our franchise agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Our revenues and profitability may be materially and adversely affected if competing dealerships expand their market share or are awarded additional franchises by manufacturers that supply our dealerships. In addition to competition for vehicle sales, our dealerships compete with franchised dealerships to perform warranty repairs and with other automotive dealers, franchised and independent service center chains and independent garages for non-warranty repair and routine maintenance business. Our dealerships compete with other automotive dealers, service stores and auto parts retailers in their parts operations. We believe that the principal competitive factors in service and parts sales are the quality of customer service, the use of factory-approved replacement parts, familiarity with a manufacturer’s brands and models, convenience, the competence of technicians, location, and price. A number of regional or national chains offer selected parts and services at prices that may be lower than our dealerships’ prices. We also compete with a broad range of financial institutions in arranging financing for our customers’ vehicle purchases. Some automobile manufacturers have in the past acquired, and may in the future attempt to acquire, automotive dealerships in certain states. Our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected by the efforts of manufacturers to enter the retail arena. In addition, the Internet is becoming a significant part of the sales process in our industry. We believe that customers are using the Internet as part of the sales process to compare pricing for cars and related finance and insurance services, which may reduce gross profit margins for new and used cars and profits for 20 related finance and insurance services. Some Web sites offer vehicles for sale over the Internet without the benefit of having a dealership franchise, although they must currently source their vehicles from a franchised dealer. If Internet new vehicle sales are allowed to be conducted without the involvement of franchised dealers, or if dealerships are able to effectively use the Internet to sell outside of their markets, our business could be materially adversely affected. We would also be materially adversely affected to the extent that Internet companies acquire dealerships or align themselves with our competitors’ dealerships. Please see “Business — Competition” for more discussion of competition in our industry. Due to the nature of the automotive retailing business, we may be involved in legal proceedings or suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will continue to be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant license or permit, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. In addition, it is possible that we could suffer losses at individual dealerships due to fraud or theft. Our automotive dealerships are subject to substantial regulation which may adversely affect our profitability and significantly increase our costs in the future. A number of state and federal laws and regulations affect our business. We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to business corporations generally. In every state in which we operate, we must obtain various licenses in order to operate our businesses, including dealer, sales, finance and insurance-related licenses issued by state authorities. These laws also regulate our conduct of business, including our advertising, operating, financing, employment and sales practices. Other laws and regulations include state franchise laws and regulations and other extensive laws and regulations applicable to new and used motor vehicle dealers, as well as federal and state wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws. Our financing activities with customers are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing and equal credit opportunity laws and regulations, as well as state and local motor vehicle finance laws, installment finance laws, insurance laws, usury laws and other installment sales laws and regulations. Some states regulate finance fees and charges that may be paid as a result of vehicle sales. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us or our dealerships by individuals or governmental entities and may expose us to significant damages or other penalties, including revocation or suspension of our licenses to conduct dealership operations and fines. Our operations are also subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, the Magnusson-Moss Warranty Act, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the United States Department of Transportation and various state motor vehicle regulatory agencies. The imported automobiles we purchase are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business, we may, from time to time, be subject to claims for duties, penalties, liquidated damages, or other charges. Our operations are subject to consumer protection laws known as Lemon Laws. These laws typically require a manufacturer or dealer to replace a new vehicle or accept it for a full refund within one year after initial purchase if the vehicle does not conform to the manufacturer’s express warranties and the dealer or manufacturer, after a reasonable number of attempts, is unable to correct or repair the defect. Federal laws require various written disclosures to be provided on new vehicles, including mileage and pricing information. Possible penalties for violation of any of these laws or regulations include revocation or suspension of our licenses and civil or criminal fines and penalties. In addition, many laws may give customers a private cause of action. Violation of these laws, the cost of compliance with these laws, or changes in these laws could result in adverse financial consequences to us. 21 Our automotive dealerships are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that may result in claims and liabilities, which could be material. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks, the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and other materials, and the investigation and remediation of contamination. As with automotive dealerships generally, and service, parts and body shop operations in particular, our business involves the use, storage, handling and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous materials or wastes and other environmentally sensitive materials. Operations involving the management of hazardous and non-hazardous materials are subject to requirements of the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes. Most of our dealerships utilize aboveground storage tanks, and to a lesser extent underground storage tanks, primarily for petroleum-based products. Storage tanks are subject to periodic testing, containment, upgrading and removal under RCRA and its state law counterparts. Clean-up or other remedial action may be necessary in the event of leaks or other discharges from storage tanks or other sources. We may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment, and/or disposal facilities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, and comparable state statutes, which impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. Similar to many of our competitors, we have incurred and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such laws and regulations. Soil and groundwater contamination is known to exist at some of our current or former properties. Further, environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. In addition, in connection with our acquisitions, it is possible that we will assume or become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities, some of which may be material. In connection with our dispositions, or prior dispositions made by companies we acquire, we may retain exposure for environmental costs and liabilities, some of which may be material. We may be required to make material additional expenditures to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, or as a result of the future discovery of environmental conditions. Please see “Business — Governmental Regulations — Environmental, Health and Safety Laws and Regulations” for a discussion of the effect of such regulations on us. Changes in accounting estimates could adversely impact our profitability. We are required to make estimates and assumptions in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates” for a discussion of what we believe are our critical accounting policies and accounting estimates. Our significant indebtedness and lease obligations could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures, and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. As of December 31, 2005, our total outstanding indebtedness and lease and other obligations were approximately $1,607 million, including the following: • $407.4 million under the floorplan portion of our revolving credit facility; • $549.1 million of future commitments under various operating leases; • $156.6 million under our Ford Motor Credit Company floorplan facility; • $145.2 million in 81/4% senior subordinated notes due 2013; • $139.7 million under our DaimlerChrysler Services North America floorplan facility; • $19.8 million under floorplan notes payable to various manufacturer affiliates for rental vehicles; 22 • $13.7 million of various notes payable; • $11.9 million of letters of credit, to collateralize certain obligations, issued under the acquisition portion of our revolving credit facility; and • $163.6 million of other short- and long-term purchase commitments. As of December 31, 2005, we had the following approximate amounts available for additional borrowings under our various credit facilities: • $305.1 million under the floorplan portion of our revolving credit facility; • $225.6 million under the acquisition portion of our revolving credit facility; • $143.4 million under our Ford Motor Credit Company floorplan facility; and • $160.3 million available for additional borrowings under the DaimlerChrysler Services North America floorplan facility. In addition, the indenture relating to our senior subordinated notes and other debt instruments allow us to incur additional indebtedness and enter into additional operating leases. Our significant amount of indebtedness and lease obligations could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our current cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations and other purposes; • some of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increasing interest rates; and • we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage and make us more vulnerable to changing market conditions and regulations. In addition, our debt instruments contain numerous covenants that limit our discretion with respect to business matters, including mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing our common stock, incurring additional debt or disposing of assets. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement or indenture. In addition, a default under one agreement or indenture could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under the other agreements or indentures under the cross default provisions in those agreements or indentures. If a default or cross default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. As a result of this risk, we could be forced to take actions that we otherwise would not take, or not take actions that we otherwise might take, in order to comply with the covenants in these agreements and indentures. Our stockholder rights plan and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make a takeover of Group 1 difficult. Our stockholder rights plan and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Group 1, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These include provisions: • providing for a board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, permitting the removal of a director from office only for cause; • allowing only the Board of Directors to set the number of directors; 23 • requiring super-majority or class voting to affect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limiting the persons who may call special stockholders’ meetings; • limiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings; and • allowing our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Certain of our franchise agreements prohibit the acquisition of more than a specified percentage of our common stock without the consent of the relevant manufacturer. These terms of our franchise agreements could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Group 1. Internet Web Site and Availability of Public Filings Our Internet address is www.group1auto.com. We make the following information available free of charge on our Internet Web site: • Annual Report on Form 10-K; • Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; • Current Reports on Form 8-K; • Amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • Our Corporate Governance Guidelines; • The charters for our Audit, Compensation, Finance/ Risk Management and Nominating/ Governance Committees; • Our Code of Conduct for Directors, Officers and Employees; and • Our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. We make our SEC filings available on our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. We make our SEC filings available via a link to our filings on the SEC Web site. The above information is available in print to anyone who requests it. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 