Risk Factors—Certain Factors That May Affect Our Business” and elsewhere in this report. Readers should also carefully review the risks outlined in other documents that Entrust files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that Entrust files in 2007. Entrust, Entrust-Ready, Entrust/Entelligence, and getAccess are registered trademarks of Entrust, Inc. or a subsidiary of Entrust, Inc. in certain countries. Entrust Authority, Entrust TruePass, Entrust GetAccess, Entrust Entelligence, Entrust CygnaCom, and ISG are trademarks or service marks of Entrust, Inc. or a subsidiary of Entrust, Inc. in certain countries. All other trademarks and service marks used in this annual report are the property of their respective owners. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction The demands on today’s enterprises and governments require ever-increasing extension outside their boundaries to interact with suppliers, customers, citizens and employees. Integrated supply chains, e-commerce, e-government and mobile employees are demanding business applications be open and available to them at all times. Since attacks on data are increasing in number and sophistication, along with the increased flow of sensitive information, this extended enterprise and government model is driving the increased need for securing digital identities and information. As the information security market continues to mature, 2006 saw organizations move away from a reactionary position to more proactive actions. Accordingly, the way organizations view security and how to apply it to their businesses is evolving. How identities are defined in today’s online environment is expanding. Once the concept of an identity applied only to an individual and organizations were concerned with determining who was on the other end of a transaction. Now, identities apply not only to individuals but also to the computers, servers, personal digital assistants and applications that they use. Authentication is no longer a one-way proposition; mutual authentication is vital to combating data theft and fraud. Phishing, man-in-the-middle attacks and the increasing sophistication of cybercriminals continue to erode consumer confidence online. Fortunately, a new technology has been developed to help boost consumer confidence and thwart malicious fraud attempts. Extended Validation (“EV”) SSL Server Certificates, for use with the next-generation of EV-aware browsers, are key to adding additional consumer confidence during online transactions. Organizations continue to invest heavily in information security and the number of security projects continues to increase. What has changed is how organizations look at security. Increasingly, organizations are abandoning the “security as insurance” view of the last few years, and moving toward a more sophisticated layered security strategy based on risk. Security is now being applied based on the risk elements related to the data an organization holds and the transactions it conducts. In addition, organizations see a strong, layered 1 Table of Contents security approach as a tool of enablement that promotes efficiency, interoperability and synergy between corporations, clients, customers, vendors and suppliers. Simultaneously, public understanding of the risks to digital identities and information are driving organizations toward action. Malware, phishing, pharming, database breaches, laptop theft and man-in-the-middle attacks on personal identity information have created anxiety among consumers and citizens. Organizations are responding to customer fears by working to prevent the brand damage resulting from identity-related fraud and data breaches. Meanwhile, legislators and regulators at the state, provincial and federal level have become involved, creating laws and regulations such as California SB1386, Gramm-Leach-Bliley, Basel II, UK Faster Payment Initiative and the FFIEC guidance on financial institution authentication. This has increased the pressure on organizations to mitigate these risks to identities and information. Penalties resulting from brand damage and customer flight in light of a security breach can be expensive. When the stakes are so high, organizations have begun taking the security decisions out of the hands of users and building rules and policies designed to automate security. Layering security into applications based on automated rules and policies is helping to properly and consistently remediate risks. About Entrust Entrust, Inc. is a global provider of security software that protects and secures digital identities and information. Entrust operates in one business segment: the design, production and sale of security, encryption, policy and access management software products, and related services, for securing digital identities and information. As part of a strong, layered security strategy for both consumer and enterprise environments, Entrust software and associated services enable businesses and governments around the world to conduct high-value, highly sensitive transactions, over wired and wireless networks including the Internet, in compliance with today’s regulatory guidelines. More than 1,550 customers have purchased and deployed the Entrust secure identity and information software solutions that integrate into the broad range of applications organizations use today to leverage Internet and enterprise applications to improve productivity. With more than 125 patents and patent applications pending, Entrust takes the initiative in authoring and driving industry standards through standards boards and technology forums. To enforce and enhance the Company’s security solution product range in 2006, Entrust finalized a pair of key acquisitions in Business Signatures and Orion Security Solutions. The acquisition of Business Signatures allowed Entrust to add the Zero Touch Fraud Detection platform to its suite of product solutions. Combined with Entrust’s award-winning authentication platform, Entrust IdentityGuard, Entrust was able to offer a comprehensive Zero Touch Fraud Detection and consumer authentication solution to its customers. This new offering is easy to implement, user-friendly and cost effective to deploy with the ability to evolve over time. Orion Security Solutions was a leading supplier of public key infrastructure services (“PKI”) to defense-related governmental agencies such as the Department of Defense (“DoD”), United States Marine Corps (“USMC”) and the National Security Agency (“NSA”). Already a leader in providing identity and information security to the United States civilian government agencies, the acquisition added key defense agencies to the Entrust customer base. The addition extended the Company’s overall leadership in the United States government vertical. 2 Table of Contents CORPORATE STRATEGY In 2006, Entrust continued to focus on key vertical and geographical markets, product transformation and innovation, customer deployments and service improvements. Entrust’s corporate priority in 2007 is to continue the momentum established in 2006 and grow the Company profitably by promoting layered security tactics in consumer and enterprise environments. To facilitate the achievement of this goal, Entrust plans to drive revenue growth by expanding markets for its new solutions, executing on vertical and geographical opportunities, increasing channels to market, keeping a tight hold on costs and remaining focused on customers. Layered Security Strategies Entrust supports the use of a strong, layered security strategy for both consumer and enterprise environments. When provided by a single vendor, this layered infrastructure promotes synergy, interoperability and cost savings. The blueprint of an effective layered consumer security strategy consists of six different, yet equally important, levels of security that directly correlate to the type of risk involved. The architecture uses a base layer of online security via Extended Validation SSL Certificates and expands to include authentication from Single Sign On, soft factors of authentication, grid cards, tokens, or even national identification cards. Once the several levels of authentication have been satisfied, additional real-time solutions step in to ensure that fraudulent transactions are not taking place. In addition, the transaction is protected and audited, regardless of whether it is in storage or in transit. The layered enterprise security strategy is similar in design, offering unique levels of security based on the type and threat of the risk involved. Levels begin at simple workstation and network authentication and are followed by file, disk and removable media encryption; remote access authentication; network folder encryption; secure end-to-end and boundary messaging; and content control and policy-based encryption. In support of the pair of layered strategies, Entrust offers three distinct solution platforms—Authentication, Transaction Monitoring and Information Protection—that host a range of dynamic, cost-effective products and solutions. Authentication Platform The Entrust Authentication Platform features the award-winning Entrust IdentityGuard and Entrust Authority Manager PKI solutions, which secure and protect the digital identities of consumers, citizens, government agents and corporate employees. Entrust IdentityGuard gives Entrust a low-cost, second-factor solution for dealing with identity theft and phishing. Entrust IdentityGuard 8.1 expands Entrust’s offering to a full suite of solutions for consumer and enterprise authentication needs in the market. To protect consumers online, Entrust Extended Validation SSL Certificates provide the first line of defense against phishing and man-in-the-middle attacks as part of a layered consumer security strategy. The new technology provides compatible browsers with clear, easy-to-understand trust indicators to help protect the consumer in the online channel. In addition, Entrust GetAccess delivers a single entry and access point to Web portal information and applications. The solution serves as the springboard for Web services and provides authentication and authorization for XML and Web services data. Entrust GetAccess makes it possible for organizations to personalize services, content and data for the diverse needs of a varied user community. 3 Table of Contents Transaction Monitoring Platform To guard against fraud attacks, the Entrust Transaction Monitoring Platform features the Entrust Risk Based Consumer Authentication solution, which relies on Entrust IdentityGuard and Entrust TransactionGuard to defend against fraud by layering authentication methods to the risk associated with individual transactions. Also featured in the Authentication Platform, Entrust TransactionGuard monitors transactions and seeks fraudulent behavior and access patterns in the massive volumes of data generated by transactional Web sites. The solution examines this data and identifies potentially suspicious behavior and high-risk activities without impacting the user experience or system performance. It serves as a resource to protect consumers and help organizations defend and manage the risk associated with online services. Information Protection Platform The third pillar is the Entrust Information Protection Platform, which is designed to protect sensitive data, wherever it resides, from unauthorized access and inadvertent disclosure. The platform uses the Entrust Entelligence suite of solutions, which includes Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server for e-mail security; Entrust Entelligence Group Share for network folder encryption; Entrust Entelligence Disk Security for the protection and encryption of files, hard drives and removable media; and Entrust Authority for strong PKI implementations. The Entrust Public Key Infrastructure portfolio provides authentication, encryption and digital certificate capabilities to the enterprise and government market place. An industry first, Entrust Entelligence Group Share is an innovative network folder encryption solution, which offers never-before-seen capabilities that provide enterprises transparent, persistent and automatic encryption for network files and folders. Entrust Web Mail Center and Entrust Messaging Server expand the Company’s offering in the fast-growing e-mail security market. As a component of a unique partnership with the Vericept Corporation, Vericept Content 360º is a multi-protocol content control solution that provides visibility into how sensitive content is handled in an organization. Content 360º is designed to operate with Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server to help identify which messages should be encrypted before they leave the boundary of an organization. Together, content control powered by Vericept and Entrust automatic e-mail encryption provides an effective security solution for organizations to help mitigate the risks of information breach and protect corporate brand. Key Portfolio Launches As an innovator and pioneer in the Internet security field, Entrust’s market leadership and expertise in delivering award-winning policy and access management software solutions is demonstrated by several key distinctions the Company and its products received recently from leading organizations. Other highlights include: • Entrust IdentityGuard Token – The Entrust IdentityGuard Token is an easy-to-use, time-synchronous hardware token that can be deployed alone or in combination with other authentication methods and is automatically supported in the Entrust IdentityGuard multifactor authentication platform. This hardware token, which was launched at an industry-low price of $5 per unit, is designed to deliver all the security and reliability organizations expect from a physical security device, without the high price. This product was launched in February 2007 and is expected to be available in the first half of 2007. • Entrust IdentityGuard 8.1 Product Launch – In June 2006, Entrust updated their highly popular Entrust IdentityGuard product to support additional third-party authentication technologies, as well as 4 Table of Contents offer hardware token support. A flexible, strong, risk-based mutual authentication platform, Entrust IdentityGuard 8.1 provides capabilities that enable organizations to choose from a range of authentication methods from a single solution. This was particularly significant for financial organizations that were faced with 2006 year-end compliance of the Federal Financial Institution Examination Council (“FFIEC”) guidance on authentication. More than five million licenses for Entrust IdentityGuard were shipped in 2006. • Entrust Entelligence Group Share Launch – November 2006 saw the launch of Entrust Entelligence Group Share, an industry-first network folder encryption solution. This cutting-edge technology offers persistent, transparent and automatic encryption for files or folders no matter where they are stored. Advanced audit capabilities make this an attractive solution for organizations concerned with data theft, as well as loss of customer data or intellectual property. This product is expected to be available in the first half of 2007. • Entrust TransactionGuard Launch – With the launch of Entrust TransactionGuard in 2006, Entrust was able to counter online fraud attacks by leveraging a software-based monitoring tool that looks for fraudulent behavior and access patterns. The solution rapidly translates the massive volumes of data streams generated by transactional Web sites into intelligible information about customer behavior. • HSPD-12 Solutions – Entrust announced solutions for the US Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (“HSPD-12”), which mandates the use of digital certificates on smartcards for all government employees and contractors. • GSA List of Approved SSPs – In December 2006, the Entrust managed PKI service made the General Services Administration (“GSA”) list of approved shared service providers. This status enables Entrust to help federal agencies reap the security benefits of PKI without having to maintain the certification authority (“CA”) themselves. • Vericept Partnership – In September 2006, Entrust and the Vericept Corporation, a leading provider of comprehensive compliance and content control solutions, announced a strategic partnership to deliver fully embedded e-mail encryption functionality in a content monitoring and control solution. Vericept’s technology was used in conjunction with Entrust Entelligence Messaging Server solution. • Integration with leading vendors – In 2006, Entrust achieved and extended integration with leading vendors, such as Microsoft, Research in Motion (RIM), PGP, Check Point, F5, Juniper Networks, Citrix, Trustgenix, Nortel, Adobe, Apple, Linux, Cyclone Commerce and Authentify. Customers As of December 31, 2006, Entrust had licensed software to more than 1,550 customers in more than 60 countries. These customers, in turn, have implemented Entrust software to securely deliver information and services to millions of business and consumer end-users. Entrust’s customers are Global 1500 enterprises, including financial, healthcare, telecommunications and large manufacturing organizations, as well as domestic and foreign government agencies. Key customer announcements in 2006 include: • Aristex Health Solutions Inc. – In November 2006, the Canadian-based healthcare group selected Entrust IdentityGuard for strong protection of their online environment. • Ocean Systems, Inc. – The financial security vendor chose Entrust IdentityGuard for multifactor authentication for its customers in North America, Latin America and the Caribbean. • Vejle County (Denmark) – Selected Entrust IdentityGuard to provide strong authentication for remote access employees across several regions. • Expedia, Inc. – Announced in October 2006, one of the world’s largest travel companies chose Entrust for a strategic platform that secured employees, partners, customers and sensitive data via Entrust IdentityGuard, Entrust GetAccess and the Entrust Entelligence suite of solutions. 5 Table of Contents • UK Ministry of Defence – Selected Entrust Authority Security Manager to enforce the agency’s strategy of centrally controlling policy to maintain a trusted network environment. • Banco Santander – In September 2006, announced the purchase of Entrust IdentityGuard for strong consumer authentication for the company’s online applications and portals. • US Bank – In August 2006, US Bank selected Entrust’s Zero Touch Fraud Detection solution to help assist with its 2006 year-end FFIEC compliance activities. • Singapore Government – To protect the information stored on chips within the new e-Passport technology, in August 2006 the Singapore government opted for Entrust Authority PKI to ensure the validity of each e-Passport issued. • Tokyo Institute of Technology – The Japan-based technical school looked to Entrust in July 2006 for Entrust Authority Security Manager, Entrust GetAccess and Entrust IdentityGuard to offer students secure Web services and provide security for physical and logical access via a comprehensive, integrated authentication platform. • Göteborg University – Announced in July 2006, the Scandinavian university selected Entrust IdentityGuard to protect records and information for 60,000 students and faculty. • Alaska Law Enforcement Information Sharing System (ALEISS) – Entrust IdentityGuard was chosen to provide another layer of user authentication for ALEISS-supported agencies to access Coplink system. • Bank of New Zealand – In April 2006, the bank announced the purchase of Entrust IdentityGuard to provide a second factor of authentication to its personal online banking customers. • Eurogiro Network A/S – Announced in March 2006, the global financial network chose Entrust Authority Security Manager for their second-generation public key infrastructure solution to provide security for transactions. • Victorian Business Master Key (VBMK) – In February 2006, the Australian-based Victorian state government project managed by the Department of Innovation, Industry and Regional Development, announced they would deploy the Entrust GetAccess solution to provide federated single sign-on (“SSO”) for businesses and citizens. Services The Entrust Professional Services team has demonstrated its experience worldwide by delivering innovative solutions utilizing both standard and customized Entrust products. Many of the Internet security industry’s most highly skilled and experienced engineers, security architects, and security consultants are members of the Entrust team. These experts have assisted the world’s governments and Global 1500 companies in addressing complex security issues with practical solutions. In the process, they have established an outstanding reputation for on-time delivery, exceptional quality and innovative approaches to complex business opportunities globally. In July of 2006, Entrust acquired Business Signatures to add fraud detection and monitoring capabilities to its solution set. The Entrust Professional Services Team has integrated and added support of these new solutions to its offerings. Each of the categories below (a-f) has added these capabilities. (a) Entrust CygnaCom Entrust CygnaCom has been providing professional information security services and cryptographic solutions to government and business clients since 1994. With a staff of highly qualified engineers, Entrust CygnaCom provides a wide range of consulting services and customized solutions to help clients develop, implement and maintain their information security programs, policies and strategy. The McLean, Virginia location provides Entrust with a large professional services organization to meet the growing needs of the U.S. 6 Table of Contents Federal government. Entrust CygnaCom’s facilities were among the first to be accredited by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program for information technology security testing against the federal cryptographic criteria (Common Criteria (ISO/IEC 15408)). In June of 2006, Entrust acquired Orion Security Solutions to add additional capabilities to the Entrust CygnaCom team. (b) Internet Security Consulting Service Entrust Internet security consulting services empower customers with knowledge by identifying Internet security business drivers related to organizations’ needs, priorities and return on investment. This knowledge is used to prepare security-requirement analyses and security-policy documents, develop business cases and speed time-to-market by avoiding potential pitfalls associated with enterprise software deployment. (c) Deployment Services Entrust deployment services provide planning and implementation expertise to assist in the installation and deployment of Entrust enhanced Internet security solutions. For organizations seeking a proven solution aligned with business objectives, Entrust deployment services provide end-to-end project management and execution. (d) Systems Integration Services To maximize the return on investment of an Entrust solution, customers can leverage the expertise of Entrust’s systems integration team. Common areas of integration include customization of user registration and identification systems, incorporation of entitlements with third-party and legacy applications, improvement of existing legacy and third-party application security, and provision of enhanced user and security management. With a broad range of expertise and proven experience on multiple platforms, applications and environments, the Entrust system integration team delivers solutions with quantifiable benefits to challenging business opportunities. Key components of success include rapid time-to-market, efficient transfer of knowledge, and the utilization of knowledge gained in hundreds of previous deployments of Entrust products. (e) Entrust Managed Services PKI In April of 2006, Entrust launched a PKI Managed Service offering for both the public and private sectors. This offering leverages the world-class knowledge and expertise of the Entrust Professional Services staff, and the implementation and operation is handled by Entrust CygnaCom. In December of 2006, the service was certified by the General Services Administration (“GSA”) as a Shared Service Provider for the U.S. Federal Government. And on February 23, 2007, the GSA granted Entrust the Authority to Operate, which is the final government approval that allows shared service providers to offer PKI services within federal environments. For customers looking to take advantage of the security benefits of PKI without managing the infrastructure themselves, the Entrust Managed Services PKI is a flexible, cost-effective alternative. Entrust’s best-of-breed PKI solutions are now available in an easy to manage and administer hosted offering. The Entrust Managed Services PKI is hosted in a comprehensive, multilayered secure environment with fully redundant infrastructures in two geographic locations. The Entrust Managed Services PKI enables customers to concentrate on growing their core business securely without the need to develop internal PKI expertise. (f) Training Services Entrust Training serves customers, partners and employees. More than 5,000 customers, partners and employees have attended technical training. In these in-depth, hands-on sessions, attendees learn how to deploy, operate, administer, customize and/or support Entrust software solutions. Entrust also offers video based training 7 Table of Contents for both general security and Entrust specific solutions. These high quality DVDs can be used in corporate training but can also serve as part or the entirety of a structured educational program. SUPPORT Entrust believes that the highest quality of customer and technical service delivery is crucial to its success, and Entrust service and support programs are key components of its commitment to offer the industry’s broadest set of enhanced Internet security services. Entrust is committed to be an industry leader in the area of support as it has become a key customer attribute in selecting a technology partner. Entrust has invested heavily in this area and the investment has paid off in the form of increased customer satisfaction and increased support and maintenance revenue. Entrust’s three-tiered, global support program gives customers the flexibility to choose between proven service and support levels that align with business needs. In addition, customers can access an extranet for online self-service technical support. SALES, MARKETING AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Sales Entrust offers its products, solutions and services through a multichannel sales approach, reflecting the characteristics and buying behavior of the target markets covered. Entrust plans to continue to focus its marketing and sales efforts to capitalize upon the need for secure digital identities and information within both the enterprise and government markets. Entrust plans to utilize a prioritized combination of direct and indirect sales channels around the globe. Entrust believes that its direct sales force, working in conjunction with indirect channels offering complementary products and services, provides Entrust with a competitive advantage in responding to customer needs as they evolve. Entrust intends to deliver revenue growth in 2007 through its sales efforts in the following ways: 1) increase the size of the direct channel; 2) focus direct resources on North America and Europe and leveraging partners in non-core geographies. Entrust will have a strong focus on developing the market for its solutions in Asia; 3) continue to developing strategic relationships with key channels to market, such as system integrators and system consultants, global and regional distributors and original equipment manufacturers or OEMs, and taking advantage of bundling or licensing opportunities with other technology manufacturers; 4) improve product mix with higher percent of revenue from emerging growth products; 5) growth in our core PKI solution through continued government penetration, increased SSL sales and the addition of our shared network folder product Entrust Entelligence Group Share; 6) continue to increase the number of transactions to the existing customer base as well as new customer opportunities; 7) raise Entrust brand awareness and the need for Entrust digital identity and information security solutions; and 8) deliver increased services revenue by ensuring industry leadership standards for quality in our customer deployments and our product solutions. See Note 19 to our consolidated financials statements located elsewhere in the Annual Report for more information regarding the geographic distribution of revenues earned. 8 Table of Contents Marketing To support its direct sales force and the TrustedPartner network, Entrust has a marketing team whose goals are to create a consistent, focused communication strategy that increases awareness of Entrust’s digital identity and information security solutions and services, and leverages that awareness in the identification of new sales opportunities. The marketing team creates and conducts integrated programs that include advertising, direct mail, trade shows, seminars, Web marketing, public relations and ongoing customer communication. Entrust intends to invest in targeted marketing programs for existing customers and prospects in key vertical and geographic markets. Business Development Identifying new markets and opportunities in advance of the current competitive landscape has been a consistent theme at Entrust. The breadth of Entrust’s security products, solutions and services, key relationships and the number of customers are testimony to Entrust’s success. To identify and develop strategic relationships with targeted industry providers more effectively, Entrust has a business development organization that pursues select business development activities, including the administration and promotion of the Entrust-Ready Program. These activities permit Entrust to strengthen relationships with existing strategic providers and identify and encourage new providers of software, network computing and communications products to make their products interoperable with Entrust. Entrust actively looks for opportunities to continue its leadership position, whether by partnering, internally developing or acquiring the necessary technologies and services to provide a full suite of solutions to its customers. REGULATORY MATTERS Certain Entrust products are subject to special export requirements administered by the governments of the United States, Canada and other countries. Entrust’s products may also be subject to import restrictions and/or use restrictions imposed by some countries. Consequently, Entrust’s ability to export its products to destinations outside the U.S. and Canada is subject to a variety of administrative requirements, government approvals or licensing requirements. Re-exports of the products between countries other than the U.S. and Canada may be subject to the export control laws of those countries in addition to those provisions of the U.S. and/or Canadian export control laws which apply to re-exports. In light of these regulations, depending on the end-user, end-use and country of destination, some of our products may not be sold to certain parties, and some products made available abroad may contain significantly weaker encryption capabilities than those available to customers in the U.S. and Canada. In addition, extra controls which the United States applies to sales to foreign governmental entities, as noted below, can create additional obligations for Entrust in this market sector. All other Entrust products are exempt from U.S. export authorization and they have been marketed accordingly. In summary, the rules are as follows: U.S. products cannot be exported to certain prohibited persons and entities, to certain embargoed countries, or for certain types of end-uses. No U.S. governmental review is required for some exports, such as products containing limited use encryption, including products that are limited to financial applications, and exports for internal use by foreign subsidiaries of companies based in the U.S. and in certain other countries. For other encryption products, exports are allowed after a one-time 30-day review, except that certain products identified as “restricted” require separate licenses for export to government end-users in certain countries. 9 Table of Contents INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect the Company’s proprietary rights. The Company currently has a portfolio of over one hundred and twenty-five (125) patents and pending patent applications. During the past eighteen months the Company has filed intellectual property lawsuits against Addison Avenue Federal Credit Union (alleged patent infringement), Open Solutions Inc. (alleged patent infringement), and Corel Corporation (alleged copyright infringement). The Company intends to continue to seek opportunities to monetize its intellectual property assets through licensing and, when necessary, litigation. Pursuant to patent cross-license agreements, the Company also licenses some of its patents to other corporations and, in return, receives rights from those corporations in respect to patents owned or licensable by such corporations. The Company is a licensee under patent cross license agreements with Nortel Networks Limited (Nortel) and Tumbleweed Communications Corp. The license with Nortel was entered into in connection with the Company’s spinout from Nortel. The Company is also a licensee in respect to certain individual patents that are not part of any cross licensing arrangement. A very large proportion of the Company’s products incorporate technology that is licensed or purchased from third parties and, as such, a significant percentage of the Company’s revenues depend upon the availability of licensed or purchased technology. The Company uses a large number of open source software packages in its products. In general, these software packages are licensed to the Company on a no-charge basis without any representations or warranties as to performance or non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Accordingly, if these open source packages are found to infringe or misappropriate any third-party intellectual property rights, the Company could potentially be held liable by such third parties and potentially by the Company’s customers pursuant to intellectual property indemnity obligations in the Company’s license agreements with such customers. In such a case, the Company would not have any recourse against the developer of such infringing or misappropriating open source software. Certain open source packages used by the Company, and in particular, certain components in the GNU Linux operating system, are licensed pursuant the GNU General Public License (the “GPL”). In certain instances, the terms of the GPL may require a licensee to make certain of that licensee’s own proprietary software available under the same terms as the GPL. As such, application of the GPL’s “viral” terms to a licensee’s own proprietary software could result in that proprietary software become available, at no charge, as open source software. The Company does not believe that any of its proprietary software is subject to the viral provisions of the GPL, however, the exact scope of these viral provisions has not been definitively established in any court actions and there is significant disagreement within the software industry about the actual scope of these viral provisions. Some of the Company’s newer products incorporate or are based on hardware products and components that are supplied and assembled by third-party suppliers, and, as such, a portion of the Company’s revenues are based upon the availability of such products and components to the Company. For example, the Company now delivers some of its products in an appliance form factor. This means that products that were previously licensed as software only are now delivered on a hardware platform. These hardware platforms are generally commercially available rack-mountable servers. The Company is also in the process of introducing hardware-based one-time password (OTP) authentication tokens that use electrical devices mounted onto a circuit board. If the pricing of these third-party products, or components thereof, changes or if new suppliers are used, there may be a detrimental or positive impact on the competitiveness and/or availability of these Company products. The amount and nature of the third-party technology used in the Company’s products varies between products. In general, and except as further discussed below, the Company’s products or other revenue generating activities (i) do not depend to a material extent on any one technology that is only available from a single source, (ii) do not depend to a material extent on any technology that would require a significant engineering effort to replace, or (iii) are not of a type that cannot be supplied by multiple vendors. Furthermore, except as further discussed below, the Company believes that due to market competitiveness, any change in vendors or in third- 10 Table of Contents party providers of technology will not have a material effect on the pricing or appeal of the affected Company product. To the extent that the Company uses hardware products or components for its products, the Company believes that these products and components are relatively standard and are readily available from multiple sources. For example, to the extent that the Company offers appliance-based products, the rack-mountable servers that it uses for those appliances can be replaced provided that the replacement server has sufficient processing power and memory to support the operation of the GNU Linux operating system and the Company applications and other applications that are supported by the current server. Given the number of hardware servers that now support GNU Linux and its associated applications, the Company believes that it would be able to find a satisfactory replacement from a technical perspective. To the extent that the Company uses various hardware components for the OTP tokens, the Company believes that the electrical devices being used within these OTP tokens are sufficiently generic that suitable technical substitutes could be obtained within reasonable timeframes. The Company maintains internal processes to monitor the terms and renewal dates for various third-party technologies so that the Company is able to plan in advance for contract renegotiation, extension, or product substitution. Therefore, it is the Company’s belief that, in general, in the case of interruption, non-renewal or expiration of a third-party license, the measures currently in place will allow the Company to promptly provide for replacement technology. However, some of the Company’s products incorporate technology licensed from third parties that cannot be promptly replaced. An example is certain Java-related technologies that are made available, without a royalty obligation, by Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun). Notwithstanding the fact that this technology is only available from a single source, the Company believes that there is no material risk that such technology will become unavailable to the Company without significant prior notice. In the case of the Java-related technologies referenced above, the Company believes there is no material risk that Sun is going to significantly change the terms under which those Java-related technologies are made available to the computer industry and further if Sun were to make any significant changes, it would provide its licensees with alternative choices or a significant period of time to transition to other technologies. Another example of a technology that could potentially be difficult to replace is the GNU Linux operating system. The GNU Linux operating system is used as the underlying operating system for a number of the Company’s appliance-based products. If the GNU Linux operating system was no longer available to the Company, or was to become available to the Company only under terms and conditions that were unacceptable to the Company, then the Company would need to seek a replacement operating system for its appliance-based products. The transition to such a replacement operating system could be lengthy and costly because of the need to potentially modify various Company applications that previously ran on the GNU Linux operating system so that they could run on the replacement operating system. Such a transition might also involve incremental royalty costs if the royalties for the replacement operating system exceeded those that the Company is paying for the variant of GNU Linux that it is currently using. It is also possible that the Company might have to replace other third-party applications with which Company applications currently interoperate if such third-party applications are not supported on any replacement operating system that might be selected by the Company. If this were the case, this need to replace these third-party applications could increase the re-engineering effort and might result in the need to license commercial packages with attendant royalty obligations. In the case of the Company’s Certificate Services business, the commercial viability of that business is dependent on having various browser manufacturers continue to embed the Company’s root key certificate in their browsers. If one or more of these manufacturers were to remove the Company’s root key certificate from their browser, the viability of the Company’s Certificate Services business could be negatively affected. However, because of the rate of turnover of various browser releases, the effect of such a removal would probably be gradual. Additionally, it might also be possible to address such a removal by entering into a cross certification arrangement with another certification authority whose root key certificate was still embedded in the affected browser. It should be noted that such a potential solution might be expensive or unavailable because any certification authorities that might be in a position to cross certify with the Company would also probably have competitive offerings to the Company’s Certificate Services business. 11 Table of Contents COMPETITION Entrust addresses key markets that help mitigate business risk by securing information and securing identities. Entrust solutions protect users and reduce loss from business fraud and protect sensitive data, regardless where it resides, while providing robust controls and audit on those who can access critical systems. Our focus is on 6 emerging growth areas: Consumer Authentication, Enterprise Authentication, Content Control, Email Security, Digital Certificates and Developer Tools. In each of these areas, Entrust encounters some of its traditional competitors, as well as new vendors who are entering the market. Entrust believes that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for its security solutions include features such as ease of use, quality/reliability of security, scalability, customer service and support and price. Although Entrust believes that its products compete favorably in respect of all these factors, there can be no assurance that Entrust can maintain its competitive position against current or potential competitors. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2006, Entrust had 503 full-time employees globally. No employees are covered by any collective bargaining agreements, and Entrust believes that its relationship with its employees is good. CORPORATE INFORMATION Stockholder Information: Computershare Investor Services, LLC 2 North LaSalle Street Chicago, IL 60602 USA Phone: (312) 588-4993 Fax: (312) 601-4350 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm: Grant Thornton LLP 1717 Main Street, Suite 1500 Dallas, TX 75201 USA For more information please contact Entrust, Inc.’s Investor Relations Department at: One Hanover Park 16633 Dallas Parkway, Suite 800 Addison, TX 75001 Phone: (972) 713-5858 E-mail: investor@entrust.com We maintain a website with the address www.entrust.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also posted on our Web site are charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominations and Corporate Governance Committee and a Code of Business Conduct. In addition, we intend to disclose on our 12 Table of Contents website any amendments to, or waivers from our Code of Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and such fluctuations may lead to a reduced market price for our stock. Our revenues and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful, but securities analysts and investors often rely upon these comparisons as indicators of future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or the guidance that we provide, the market price of our securities would likely decline. Factors that have caused our results to fluctuate in the past and which are likely to affect us in the future include the following: • reduced capital expenditures and operating budgets for software, especially within our critical vertical markets; • length of sales cycles associated with our product offerings; • the timing, size and nature of our licensing transactions; • the increased dependency on partners for end user fulfillment; • market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us; • market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by our competitors; • the relative proportions of revenues derived from licenses and services and maintenance; • the timing of new personnel hires and the rate at which new personnel become productive; • changes in pricing policies by our competitors; • changes in our operating expenses; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; Estimating future revenues is difficult, and our failure to do so accurately may lead to a reduced market price for our stock and reduced profitability. Estimating future revenues is difficult because we ship our products soon after an order is received and, as such, we do not have a significant order backlog. Thus, quarterly license revenues depend heavily upon orders received and shipped within the same quarter. Moreover, we historically have recorded 50% to 60% of our total quarterly revenues in the third month of the quarter, with a concentration of revenues in the second half of that month. We expect that this concentration of revenues, which is attributable in part to the tendency of some customers to make significant capital expenditures at the end of a fiscal quarter and to sales patterns within the software industry, will continue. Our expense levels are based, in significant part, upon our expectations as to future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our expectations could have an immediate and significant effect on our profitability for that quarter and may lead to a reduced market price for our stock. 13 Table of Contents Because of the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle associated with our large software transactions, we may not succeed in closing transactions on a timely basis or at all, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Transactions for our solutions often involve large expenditures, and the sales cycles for these transactions are often lengthy and unpredictable. Factors affecting the sales cycle include: • customers’ budgetary constraints, particularly in a soft economic environment where technology spending is often deferred; • the timing of customers’ budget cycles; and • customers’ internal approval processes. We may not succeed in closing such large transactions on a timely basis or at all, which could cause significant variability in our revenues and results of operations for any particular period. If our results of operations and cash flows fall below the expectations of securities analysts, or below the targeted guidance range that we have provided, our stock price may decline. A limited number of customers has accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues, which may decline if we cannot maintain or replace these customer relationships, and for a significant percentage of our accounts receivable. Historically, a limited number of customers have accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, our three largest customers accounted in the aggregate for 28%, 31% and 32% of revenues, respectively. We anticipate that our results of operations in any given period will continue to depend to a significant extent upon revenues from a small number of large customers. In addition, we anticipate that such customers will continue to vary over time, so that the achievement of our long-term goals will require us to obtain additional significant customers on an ongoing basis. Our failure to enter into a sufficient number of large licensing agreements during a particular period could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, which may be, but not necessarily, mitigated by higher volume of lower dollar transactions. In addition, our accounts receivable include material balances from a limited number of customers, with five customers accounting in the aggregate for 22% of gross accounts receivable at December 31, 2006, compared to 36% of gross accounts receivable at December 31, 2005. No customer individually accounted for 10% or more of net accounts receivable at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the total accounts receivable is $21.1 million, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $1.5 million. Changes in the financial condition of these customers could result in a different assessment of the existing credit risk of our accounts receivable and thus, a different required allowance, which could have a material impact on our reported earnings. The U.S. and Canadian Federal Governments account for a significant percentage of our revenues, which may decline or be subject to delays, which would adversely affect our operating results. The extended government vertical (Governments, including Healthcare) accounted for 39% of our product revenue in 2006 and 55% of product revenue in 2005. The U.S. and Canadian governments represented 15% and 10% of total revenues, respectively, in 2006, which includes revenues sold through resellers to these government end users. Sustaining and growing revenues in the government market will depend, in large part, on the following: • the adoption rate of our products within government departments and agencies; • the timing and amount of budget appropriations for information technology and specifically information security; • the timing of adoption of information security policies and regulations, including, but not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the California Breach Disclosure Law (SB1386); and 14 Table of Contents • our ability to develop and maintain the appropriate business relationships with partners with whom the government contracts for information security projects. A decline, or delay in the growth of this market could reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations. In addition, changes in Government officials as a result of elections could have an impact on our prospects in the Government market. Our ability to sell to the Government may also be impacted by changes to, or termination of, the supply agreement(s) we have in place with the Government, which from time to time come up for renewal and renegotiation. Finally, failure to properly monitor pricing on government contracts could result in liability for penalties to the government for non-compliance. We sometimes enter into complex contracts, which require ongoing monitoring and administration. Failure to monitor and administer these contracts properly could result in liability or damages. We sometimes enter into complex contracts with our Government customers that contain clauses that provide that if a customer who falls within a specific category (known as a Relevant Customer) is offered better terms on the Company’s software products and related services that had been offered to the Government customer, then the Government customer will be able to buy additional quantities of those software products and services for the same length of time, from the same effective date and on the better terms that were offered to the Relevant Customer. The Company monitors compliance with these contracts on a continuous basis. The Company also conducts periodic self-assessments to ensure that the contracts are being properly administered and that there are no accruing liabilities for non-compliance. If these contracts are not properly monitored and administered, they may be breached and could result in damages payable by us which, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. War, the significant threat of war, or a terrorist act could adversely affect our business. Historically, the economy has been adversely affected by war, the significant threat of war and terrorist acts. Any of these factors could cause one or more of the following to occur: • government spending could be reprioritized to wartime activities; • global enterprise spending budgets could be cut or delayed resulting in lower demand for our products; or • widespread and unprecedented acts of cyber-terrorism could cause disruption of communications and technology infrastructures, which could impact our customers or products and could have unforeseen economic impacts. A decline or delay in economic spending due to war, the significant threat of war or a terrorist act could reduce demand for our products, materially adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations. A widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. A number of countries in the Asia/Pacific region have experienced outbreaks of SARS and/or bird flu in recent years. As a result of such an outbreak, businesses can be shut down temporarily and individuals can become ill or quarantined. Outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in North America, Europe or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. If our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. In addition, a 15 Table of Contents curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. Further, if our customers’ businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If the enterprise information technology budgets and the digital identity security market do not continue to grow, demand for our products and services will be adversely affected. The market for digital identity and information security solutions is at an early stage of development. Continued growth of the digital identity security market will depend, in large part, on the following: • the continued increase in the number of organizations adopting or expanding intranets and extranets; • the rate of adoption of Internet-based business applications such as Web Services; • the ability of network infrastructures to support an increasing number of users and services; • the public recognition of the potential threat posed by computer hackers and other unauthorized users; and • the continued development of new and improved services for implementation across the Internet, intranets and extranets. A decline in the growth of this market could reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our revenues and results of operations. A breach of security at one of our customers, whether or not due to our products, could harm our reputation and reduce the demand for our products. The processes used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks and intranets are rapidly evolving. A well-publicized actual or perceived breach of network or computer security at one of our customers, regardless of whether such breach is attributable to our products, third-party technology used within our products or any significant advance in techniques for decoding or “cracking” encrypted information, could adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products, and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and the demand for our products. In addition, the security level of our products is dependent upon the processes and procedures used to install and operate our products. Failure on the part of our customers to properly install and operate our products, could cause a security breach, which could adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products, and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and the demand for our products. Sales of our products may decline if some of our products are found to contain bugs or errors. Our existing testing procedures may not detect errors, failures or bugs in our software products. Such errors may become evident at any time during the life of our products. The discovery of any errors, failures or bugs in any products, including third-party technology incorporated into our products, may result in: • adverse publicity; • product returns; • the loss or delay of market acceptance of our products; and • third-party claims against us. Accordingly, the discovery of any errors, failures or bugs may have a significant adverse effect on the sales of our products and our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our revenues may decline if we cannot compete successfully in an intensely competitive market. We target our products at the rapidly evolving market for digital identity and information security solutions. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger installed bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and sales resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to react more quickly to emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, certain of our current competitors in particular segments of the security marketplace may in the future broaden or enhance their offerings to provide a more comprehensive solution competing more fully with our functionality. Increased competition and increased market volatility in our industry could result in lower prices, reduced margins or the failure of our products and services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could have a serious adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will not be successful if we do not keep up with the rapid changes in our industry. The emerging market for digital identity and information security products and related services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. To be competitive, we have to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, and be first to market with new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services. Our failure to develop and introduce new products and services successfully on a timely basis and to achieve market acceptance for such products and services could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty managing our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully grow our business. • Our ability to manage future growth, if any, will depend upon our ability to: • continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis; and • expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our operations. The geographic dispersal of our operations may make it more difficult to manage our growth. We depend on our key personnel for the success of our business and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business or could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. Our success and our ability to manage our business depend, in large part, upon the efforts and continued service of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. It could be difficult for us to find replacements for our key personnel, as competition for such personnel is intense. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could reduce the market value of our securities. If we fail to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical, sales and managerial personnel, including key personnel at acquired companies. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly in the field of information security, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key scientific, technical, sales and managerial employees or that we can attract, motivate or retain other 17 Table of Contents highly qualified personnel in the future. These challenges are made more severe by our history of operating losses, the employment reductions from our restructurings, and the fact that the exercise price of a majority of outstanding stock options is below the current market price of our stock. If we cannot retain or are unable to hire such key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our intellectual property rights and our ability to protect these rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements, shrink-wrap licenses and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may: • copy aspects of our products; • obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary; or • infringe upon our patents. Policing piracy and other unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly in international markets and as a result of the growing use of the Internet. In addition, third parties might successfully design around our patents or obtain patents that we would need to license or design around. Finally, the protections we have obtained may not be sufficient because: • some courts have held that shrink-wrap licenses, because they are not signed by the licensee, are not enforceable; • our trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and patents may not provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information; and • we may not seek additional patents on our technology or products, and such patents, even if obtained, may not be broad enough to protect our technology or products. We do aggressively defend and/or enforce our intellectual property rights. However, our inability or failure to protect our proprietary rights could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, while actions taken to enforce our intellectual property rights could substantially increase our quarterly expenses. We have been subject to, and may in the future become subject to, intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly and could result in a diversion of management’s attention. As the number of security products in the industry and the functionality of these products further overlaps, software developers and publishers may increasingly become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property or proprietary rights of others. From time to time, we have received notices from third parties either soliciting our interest in obtaining a license under one or more patents owned or licensed by these third parties or suggesting that our products may be infringing one or more patents owned or licensed by these third parties. From time to time, we have received notices from various customers stating that we may be responsible for indemnifying such customers pursuant to indemnification obligations in product license agreements with such customers for alleged infringement of patents assigned to third parties. To date, we are not aware that any customer has filed an action against us for indemnification. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us in the future. Defending or enforcing our intellectual property could be costly and could result in a diversion of management’s attention, which could have a significant adverse effect on our 18 Table of Contents business, financial condition or results of operations. A successful claim against us could also have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which damages are paid. Additionally, as a result of a successful claim, we could potentially be enjoined from using technology that is required for our products to remain competitive, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations for subsequent periods. We may lose access to technology that we license from outside vendors, which loss could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We rely on outside licensors for patent and/or software license rights in technology that is incorporated into and is necessary for the operation of our products. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to have access to such technologies that are or may become important to the functionality of our products. Any inability to continue to procure or use such technology could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to sell some of our products. We rely on partners to integrate our products with their products and to resell our products. Changes in these relationships could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We rely on partners to integrate our products with their products or to maintain adherence to industry standards so that our products will be able to work with them to provide enhanced security attributes. For example, our ability to provide digital signatures on Adobe forms is dependent upon Adobe continuing to allow Entrust to have access to their private Application Programming Interfaces in future releases. In addition, we have resale relationships with companies such as Critical Path, Safenet, Pointsec, Vericept and Sun Microsystems/Waveset. Inability to maintain these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may lose suppliers whose loss could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Some of the Company’s newer products incorporate or are based on hardware products and components that are supplied and assembled by third-party suppliers, and, as such, a portion of the Company’s revenues are based upon the availability of such products and components to the Company. If the pricing of these third-party products, or components thereof, changes or if new suppliers are used, there may be a detrimental or positive impact on the competitiveness and/or availability of these Company products. Current and future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. It is possible, as part of our current and future growth strategies that we will from time-to-time acquire or make investments in companies, technologies, product solutions or professional services offerings. With respect to these acquisitions, we would face the difficulties of assimilating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and the problems of retaining and motivating key personnel from such businesses. In addition, these acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert senior management from day-to-day business, increase our expenses and adversely impact our results of operations. Any future acquisitions would involve certain other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and incurrence of debt. In addition, these types of transactions often result in charges to earnings for such items as amortization of purchased intangibles or in-process research and development expenses. For example, in June 2006, we completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding shares of the common stock of Orion, based in McLean, Virginia, and in July 2006, we completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock and options of Business Signatures, based in Redwood City, California. While management expects to successfully integrate the newly acquired technology and operations, each of the above risks applies to these acquisitions. 19 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our international operations, which, if not managed properly, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, we may establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and establish relationships with additional partners internationally. This expansion would require significant management attention and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our international sales currently are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, we may increasingly denominate sales in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, our international business may be subject to the following risks: • difficulties in collecting international accounts receivable; • difficulties in obtaining U.S. export licenses, especially for products containing encryption technology; • potentially longer payment cycles for customer payments; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; • introduction of non-tariff barriers and higher duty rates; • difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; • difficulties managing personnel, partners and operations in remote locations; and • increased complexity in global corporate tax structure. Any one of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the laws regarding exports of our products further limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to restricted countries, which would result in a loss of revenues. Some of our products are subject to export controls under the laws of the United States, Canada and other countries. The list of products and countries for which exports are restricted, and the relevant regulatory policies, are likely to be revised from time to time. If we cannot obtain required government approvals under these regulations, we may not be able to sell products abroad or make products available for sale internationally via computer networks such as the Internet. Furthermore, United States governmental controls on the export of encryption products and technology may in the future restrict our ability to export some of our products. Our stock price is volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our Common stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, highly volatile and may be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; • new products introduced by, or new contracts entered into by, us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents, copyrights or propriety rights; • conditions and trends in the security industry; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors. 20 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that are in our shareholders’ best interests. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions, including a staggered board of directors that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or may discourage bids to do so. We think these measures enable us to review offers for our shares of Common stock to determine if they are in the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Common stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of Common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. 