Risk Factors The Audit Committee’s conclusion that certain historical stock option grants were not accounted for correctly has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial results. The Audit Committee has concluded that, primarily from fiscal 1998 through fiscal 2006, a large number of stock options were not accounted for correctly in our financial statements. As a result, we have restated our financial results for the years ended January 31, 1998 through the quarter ended April 31, 2006, and taken substantial compensation charges in each of those periods. We could continue to incur substantial charges in future periods in connection with the results of the review that are not compensation charges. Such charges could include, but are not limited to, payments to employees or taxing authorities arising from potential income tax liabilities pursuant to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. 32 Table of Contents The Audit Committee’s review of our historical stock option grant practices, together with the preparation of the resulting financial restatements, has consumed considerable amounts of Board member and management time and caused us to incur substantial expenses, which have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on us. The Audit Committee’s review of our historical stock option grants and the preparation of our restated consolidated financial statements have required us to expend significant Board member and management time, and to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. The review and preparation of our financial statements lasted over a year and required numerous meetings of the Audit Committee, the full Board of Directors and members of our senior management. The review has diverted the attention of our Board and management team from the operation of our business and proven to be a significant distraction. In addition, we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the review, which have had and could continue to have a negative effect on our financial results. The period of time necessary to resolve these ongoing matters is uncertain, and these matters could require significant additional Board and management attention and resources. The ongoing government inquiries relating to our historical stock option grant practices are time consuming and expensive and could result in injunctions, fines and penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The inquiries by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) into our historical stock option grant practices are ongoing. We have fully cooperated with the SEC and intend to continue to do so. The period of time necessary to resolve these inquiries is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical stock option grant practices. These inquiries will likely require us to continue to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, and could result in actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against the Company and the payment of significant fines and penalties by the Company, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. As a result of the matters identified by the Audit Committee’s review of our historical stock option grant practices, we have failed to comply with SEC reporting requirements and Nasdaq listing requirements and may continue to face compliance issues with both. The continued failure by us to remain in compliance with SEC reporting requirements and Nasdaq listing requirements would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company and our stockholders. Due to the Audit Committee’s review of our historical stock option grant practices and resulting restatements, we could not file our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis and faced the possibility of delisting from Nasdaq. With the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2007 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended July 30, 2006, October 31, 2006, April 30, 2007 and July 31, 2007, we believe we have returned to full compliance with SEC reporting requirements and Nasdaq listing requirements and, therefore, that the Nasdaq delisting matter is now closed. However, if the SEC has comments on these reports (or other reports that we previously filed) that require us to file amended reports, or if Nasdaq does not concur that we are in compliance with applicable listing requirements, we may be unable to maintain the listing of our stock on Nasdaq. If this happens, the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock could be harmed. In addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under federal securities laws, and we would not be able to issue stock options or other equity awards to our employees or allow them to exercise their outstanding options, which could harm our business. In addition, if we are not in compliance with our SEC reporting requirements in the future, it could have a negative impact on our reputation, including our relationships with our investors and our customers, our ability to acquire new customers, including new contracts with U.S. federal and other government entities, and, ultimately, our ability to generate revenue. Such lack of current information regarding us could also lead to our inability to access the capital markets for debt or loan financings because investors and lenders would not have information in order to evaluate us. 33 Table of Contents We have been named as a party to a number of shareholder derivative lawsuits relating to our historical stock option grant practices, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. This litigation could become time consuming and expensive and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with our historical stock option grant practices and resulting restatements, a number of derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and officers purporting to assert claims on the Company’s behalf. There may be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. If these lawsuits become time consuming and expensive, or if there are unfavorable outcomes in any of these cases, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage will not cover our total liabilities and expenses in these lawsuits, in part because we have a significant deductible on certain aspects of the coverage. In addition, subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the review of our historical stock option grant practices and the related litigation and government inquiries. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. We are subject to the risks of additional lawsuits in connection with our historical stock option grant practices, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. In addition to the possibilities that there may be additional governmental actions and shareholder lawsuits against us, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. These lawsuits may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls or remediate any future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and our stock price. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting is essential for us to produce reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As a result of the Audit Committee’s review into our historical stock option grant practices and related matters, we identified past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures (see Item 9A—Controls and Procedures). A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of them, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our operating results, result in a material misstatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Failure to comply with applicable corporate governance requirements may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC, affect our Nasdaq listing, and adversely affect our stock price. Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as Nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure 34 Table of Contents requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations. It may become more difficult and costly to obtain director and officer insurance coverage due to the results of our stock option review. We expect that the issues arising from our review of stock option grant policies will make it more difficult to obtain director and officer insurance coverage in the future. If we are able to obtain this coverage, it could be significantly more costly than in the past, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flow. As a result of this and related factors, our directors and officers could face increased risks of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficultly attracting and retaining qualified directors and officers, which could adversely affect our business. Risks related to the Recent Acquisition Speculation and Investor Actions Despite recent acquisition speculation and investor actions, a merger, acquisition or other transaction involving us may not occur or may occur at a price per share of our common stock that is below the current trading price, which could harm our stock price. We face uncertainty concerning our future given certain investors' calls to auction us, the recent unsolicited cash public offer for us by Oracle at $17.00 per share of our common stock (which offer expired on October 28, 2007), and our board of directors’ stated willingness to negotiate the sale of us at $21.00 per share. As a result of these developments, our stock price has increased substantially in anticipation of a transaction, particularly after the public announcement of Oracle’s offer. There can be no assurance whether a transaction will occur or at what price. If a transaction does not occur, or the market perceives a transaction as unlikely to happen, our stock price may decline. General customer uncertainty related to acquisition speculation and investor actions could harm our business. Due to the uncertainty concerning an acquisition of us and the identity of the possible acquiror or its intentions, many of our current and potential customers may decide not to purchase from us or may defer purchasing decisions indefinitely. If our customers delay or defer purchasing decisions, particularly with respect to the million and multimillion dollar license transactions that we rely on, our revenues could materially decline or any anticipated increases in revenue could be lower than expected. Acquisition speculation and investor actions could cause us to lose key personnel, prevent us from hiring additional key personnel and distract our management, which could harm our business. Due to the recent acquisition speculation and investor actions, our current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles within BEA as an independent entity or as an acquired business. This uncertainty may harm our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel and may lead to increased employee attrition. This acquisition speculation and investor activity also has diverted the attention of our management team from the operation of our business. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel and the distraction of our management could harm our business. 35 Table of Contents We have been named in various stockholder and purported stockholder class action lawsuits for various matters related to the recent acquisition offer and takeover speculation, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. This litigation could become time consuming and expensive, could prevent or delay any transaction and could harm our business. We and members of our board of directors have been named in six purported stockholder class action complaints, two in the Delaware Chancery court, three in California in the Santa Clara County Superior Court (one of which purports also to be a derivative lawsuit) and one in the federal court for the Northern District of California (which was an amended complaint to the stock option review derivative action). Generally, these actions allege breach of fiduciary duties by our directors by failing to give proper consideration to the October 12, 2007 publicly announced and unsolicited bid by Oracle for us at $17.00 per share of our common stock (which offer expired on October 28, 2007), and seek damages and equitable relief. In addition, a group of affiliated stockholders has brought an action against us and members of our board of directors in Delaware Chancery Court seeking to compel us to hold our annual meeting on or before November 30, 2007, and to enjoin us from taking certain actions pending the annual meeting. For a complete description of these actions, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” We have obligations under certain circumstances to indemnify each of the defendant directors against judgments, fines, settlements and expenses related to claims against such directors and otherwise to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. If these lawsuits or any future lawsuits become time consuming and expensive, or if there are unfavorable outcomes in any of these cases, any acquisition transaction could be prevented or delayed or our business could be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 