D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Merus’ Business and Industry Ability to Implement Merus’ Strategy to Grow the Business Merus has historically increased sales and net income through strategic acquisitions, licensing and related internal growth initiatives intended to develop marketing opportunities with respect to acquired product lines. Merus’ strategy is focused on increasing sales and enhancing its competitive standing and enabling it to promote and sell new products through existing and new marketing and distribution channels. Since Merus engages in limited proprietary research activity with respect to product development, it relies heavily on purchasing product lines from other companies. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than Merus, may compete for the acquisition of products. Merus may not be able to acquire rights to additional products on acceptable terms, if at all, or be able to obtain future financing for acquisition on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to effect acquisitions of additional branded products could limit the overall growth of the business. Furthermore, even if Merus is able to obtain rights to pharmaceutical products, Merus may not generate sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. For example, the marketing strategy, distribution channels and levels of competition with respect to acquired products may be different than those of Merus’ current products, limiting its ability to compete favorably in those product categories. Ability to Acquire License Rights to New Products Merus depends on the acquisition of rights to products from other companies as the primary source for new products. Risks in acquiring new products include: a) the ability to locate new products that are attractive and complement Merus’ business, and b) the price to acquire or obtain the license for these products may be too costly to justify the acquisition. Merus also faces competition from other pharmaceutical companies in acquiring rights to products, which makes it more difficult to find attractive products on acceptable terms. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is subject to rapid and significant technological change, which could render technologies and products obsolete or uncompetitive. Merus’ products will face competition from new pharmaceutical and biotech products that treat some of the same diseases and conditions as Merus’ products. Many of Merus’ competitors have greater financial resources and selling and marketing capabilities. Merus will face further competition from drug development companies that focus their efforts on developing and marketing products that are similar in nature to its products, but that in some instances offer improvements over Merus’ products, such as less frequent dosing, more pleasant taste, new dosage formats and other novel approaches to improve existing products. Merus’ competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or less expensive to use than any that Merus may license or acquire. These developments could render Merus’ products obsolete or uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on Merus’ business, financial condition and operating results. Recently, Optimer announced that Health Canada awarded Optimer priority review for its product: DIFICID®. DIFICID® is another method for the treatment of Clostridium difficile infection. Optimer asserts that DIFICID® has a slightly lower recurrence rate than Vancocin®. If Optimer is able to demonstrate that DIFICID® is preferable to Vancocin®, the business of Merus could be adversely affected. 10 Core patent protection for Merus’ initial portfolio has expired or will soon expire, which could result in significant competition from generic products resulting in a significant reduction in sales. The core patents protecting its products have expired or will soon expire, which could result in significant competition from generic products and could result in a significant reduction in sales. In order to continue to obtain commercial benefits from Merus’ products, it will rely on product manufacturing trade secrets, know-how and related non-patent intellectual property. The effect of this patent expiration depends, among other things, upon the nature of the market and the position of Merus’ products in the market from time to time, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of manufacture of a competitive product and regulatory approval requirements of generic drug laws. In the event that competition develops from generic products, this competition could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. The entrance into the market of a generic pharmaceutical product may erode the branded product’s market share which may have a material adverse effect on Merus’ business, financial condition and results of operations. In December 2011, Health Canada granted a notice of compliance (“NOC”) to Pharmaceutical Partners of Canada Inc. (“PPC”), which allows PPC the authority to market their generic version of Vancocin capsules in the Canadian market. Should a generic version of Vancocin commercially launch, the sales of Vancocin may decline significantly. Merus may be subject to product liability claims, which can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearance is obtained, can result in product liability claims. Product liability claims can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against Merus. In addition, third party collaborators and licensees may not protect Merus from product liability claims. Merus will maintain product liability insurance in connection with the marketing of its products. Merus may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities arising from product sales. If Merus is unable to obtain sufficient levels of insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims Merus will be exposed to product liability claims. A successful product liability claim in excess of its insurance coverage could harm its financial condition, results of operations and prevent or interfere with its product commercialization efforts. In addition, any successful claim may prevent Merus from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable terms. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim may be time-consuming and expensive. 11 Unexpected Product Safety or Efficacy Concerns Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims. Uncertainty can arise regarding the applicability of Merus’ proprietary information. Merus will rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information as well as requiring employees, suppliers and other third-party service providers to sign confidentiality agreements. However, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, and Merus may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information without infringing upon any proprietary technology. Third parties may otherwise gain access to Merus’ proprietary information and adopt it in a competitive manner. If a third party obtains Merus’ proprietary information and adopts it in a competitive manner, it may have a material effect on Merus’ business, financial condition and operating results. Merus may not be able to secure additional financing. There can be no assurance that Merus will be able to raise the additional funding that it needs to carry out its business objectives. The development of Merus’ business depends upon prevailing capital market conditions, Merus’ business performance and its ability to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that Merus will be successful in obtaining required financing as and when needed or at all. If additional financing is raised by the issuance of shares from treasury, control of Merus may change and shareholders may suffer additional dilution. Merus may not be ability to implement its business strategy. The growth and expansion of Merus’ business will be heavily dependent upon the successful implementation of its business strategy. There can be no assurance that Merus will be successful in the implementation of its business strategy. Merus will rely on third parties to manufacture its products. Merus will not have the internal capability to manufacture pharmaceutical products and will rely on third parties to manufacture its products. Merus cannot be certain that manufacturing sources will continue to be available or that it will be able to continue to outsource the manufacturing of its products on reasonable or acceptable terms. In addition, outsourcing manufacturing will expose Merus to a number of risks which are outside its control, including: its suppliers may fail to comply with government mandated current good manufacturing practices which include quality control and quality assurance requirements, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation and manufacture of products according to the specifications contained in the applicable regulatory file resulting in mandated production halts or limitations; or its suppliers may experience manufacturing quality, control or yield issues which would require the supplier to halt or limit production of its products. If Merus encounters delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers, packagers or distributors, sales of Merus’ products could be delayed. If Merus changes the source or location of supply or modifies the manufacturing process, regulatory authorities will require it to demonstrate that the product produced by the new source or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials that were conducted. If Merus is unable to demonstrate this equivalence, it will be unable to manufacture products from the new source or location of supply, or use the modified process. Merus may incur substantial expenses in order to ensure equivalence. This may negatively affect its business, financial condition and operating results. 12 If its supply of finished products is interrupted, Merus’ ability to maintain inventory levels could suffer and future revenues could be delayed. Supply interruptions may occur and Merus’ inventory of finished products may not always be adequate to satisfy demand. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of Merus’ finished products, including failure to have a third party supply chain validated in a timely manner, shortages in raw material and packaging components required by its manufacturers, changes in its sources for manufacturing or packaging, its failure to timely locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. There can be no assurances that Merus’ other products will not be interrupted in the future. This may have an adverse effect on its business, financial results and operations. Merus will rely on third parties to perform distribution, logistics, regulatory and sales services for its products. Merus will rely on third parties to provide distribution, logistics, regulatory and sales services including warehousing of finished product, accounts receivable management, billing, collection and record keeping. If the third parties cease to be able to provide Merus with these services, or do not provide these services in a timely or professional manner Merus may not be able to successfully manage the product revenues or integrate new products into its business, which may result in decreases in sales. Additionally, any delay or interruption in the process or in payment could result in a delay delivering product to its customers, which could have a material effect on Merus’ business, financial condition and operating results. The publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials may adversely impact Merus’ products. From time-to-time, studies or clinical trials on various aspects of pharmaceutical products are conducted by academics or others, including government agencies. The results of these studies or trials, when published, may have a dramatic effect on the market for the pharmaceutical product that is the subject of the study. The publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to Merus’ products or the therapeutic areas in which Merus’ products compete could adversely affect Merus’ sales, the prescription trends for Merus’ products and the reputation of Merus’ products. In the event of the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to Merus’ products or the therapeutic areas in which Merus’ products compete, Merus’ business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 13 Merus must successfully integrate any products that it has acquired or will acquire in the future. Merus will pursue additional products that could complement or expand its business. However, there can be no assurance that Merus will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates in the future. If an acquisition candidate is identified, there can be no assurance that Merus will be able to successfully negotiate the terms of any such acquisition, finance such acquisition or integrate such acquired product or business into its existing products and business. Furthermore, the negotiation of potential acquisitions and integration of acquired product lines could divert management’s time and resources, and require significant resources to consummate. If Merus consummate one or more significant acquisitions through the issuance of shares, Merus’ shareholders could suffer significant dilution of their ownership interests. Merus will depend on key managerial personnel for its success. Merus will be highly dependent upon qualified managerial personnel. Its anticipated growth will require additional expertise and the addition of new qualified personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field. Therefore, Merus may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of its business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key managerial personnel in a timely manner, would harm its business development programs, and its ability to manage day-to-day operations, attract collaboration partners, attract and retain other employees and generate revenues. Merus will not maintain key person life insurance on any of its employees. Increases in sales may attract generic competition. Merus expects its initial portfolio to continue to enjoy market exclusivity due to a number of factors, including economic barriers to competition. If sales of its initial portfolio were to increase substantially, competitors may be more likely to develop generic formulations that compete directly with Merus’ products. Increased generic competition would have a material adverse effect on its business and financial results. Merus’ business will be subject to limitations imposed by government regulations. In both, domestic and foreign markets, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labelling, handling, distribution, importation, exportation, licensing, sale and storage of its products are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints which are beyond Merus’ control. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at all levels of government. There can be no assurance that Merus will be in compliance with all of these laws, regulations and other constraints. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and other constraints or new laws, regulations or constraints could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact Merus’ business. In addition, the adoption of new laws, regulations or other constraints or changes in the interpretations of such requirements may result in significant compliance costs or lead Merus to discontinue product sales and may have an adverse effect on the marketing of Merus’ products, resulting in significant loss of sales. In the United States, the FDA perceives any written or verbal statement used to promote or sell a product that associates an unapproved nutrient with a disease (whether written by Merus, the content of a testimonial endorsement or contained within a scientific publication) to be evidence of intent to sell an unapproved new drug. If any such evidence is found with respect to Merus’ products, the FDA may take adverse action against Merus, ranging from a warning letter necessitating cessation of use of the statement to injunctions against product sale, seizures of products promoted with the statements, and civil and criminal prosecution of Merus’ executives. Such actions could have a detrimental effect on sales. 14 Policies Regarding Returns, Allowances and Chargebacks May Reduce Revenues in Future Fiscal Periods Merus establishes estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods. Merus cannot ensure that the reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed the estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and the market price of Merus securities. Merus may be subject to the risks of foreign exchange rate fluctuation. Merus will be exposed to fluctuations of the Canadian dollar against certain other currencies because it publishes its financial statements in Canadian dollars, while a minor portion of its assets, liabilities, revenues and costs are or will be denominated in other currencies, such as the euro and the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates for currencies of the countries in which Merus operates may fluctuate in relation to the Canadian dollar, and such fluctuations, especially as between the Canadian dollar and the euro, may have a material adverse effect on its earnings or assets when translating foreign currency into Canadian dollars. In order to mitigate the risk, Merus uses forward contracts and other derivative instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency risk. Dependent on the nature, amount and timing of foreign currency receipts and payments, Merus may from time to time enter into foreign currency contracts. Accordingly, Merus may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings solely as a result of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which include foreign currency devaluations against the Canadian dollar. Merus does not typically carry currency convertibility risk insurance. Market rate fluctuations could adversely affect Merus’ results of operations. Merus will be subject to market risk through the risk of loss of value in Merus’ portfolios resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity prices. Merus will be required to mark to market its held-for-trading investments at the end of each reporting period. This process could result in significant write-downs of Merus’ investments over one or more reporting periods, particularly during periods of overall market instability, which would have a significant unfavourable effect on Merus’ financial position. Merus may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future investments. Merus will regularly review investment opportunities and as part of the review, conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in any particular transaction. Despite Merus’ efforts, it may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, it might not realize the intended advantages of any given investment and may not identify all of the risks relating to the investment. If Merus fails to realize the expected benefits from one or more investments, or does not identify all of the risks associated with a particular investment, Merus’ business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 15 Merus may be subject to certain regulations that could restrict Merus’ activities. From time to time, governments, government agencies and industry self- regulatory bodies in Canada, the United States, the European Union and other countries in which Merus will operate have adopted statutes, regulations and rulings that directly or indirectly affect the activities of Merus and its future clients. Risks Relating to Merus’ Common Shares A decline in the price of the Common Shares could affect its ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact its ability to continue operations. A prolonged decline in the price of the Common Shares could result in a reduction in the liquidity of its Common Stock and a reduction in its ability to raise capital. Because a significant portion of Merus’ operations have been and will be financed through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of its Common Shares could be especially detrimental to Merus’ liquidity and its operations. Such reductions may force Merus to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may have a significant negative effect on Merus’ business plan and operations, including its ability to develop new products and continue its current operations. If Merus’ stock price declines, it can offer no assurance that Merus will be able to raise additional capital or generate funds from operations sufficient to meet its obligations. If Merus is unable to raise sufficient capital in the future, Merus may not be able to have the resources to continue its normal operations. Because it is unlikely that Merus will pay dividends in the foreseeable future, stockholders may only benefit from owning Common Shares if the value of the Common Shares appreciates. Merus has never paid dividends on its Common Shares and it does not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. Merus intends to retain any future earnings to finance its growth. Accordingly, any potential investor who anticipates the need for current dividends from his or her investment should not purchase Common Shares. Because Merus is a Canadian company, it may be difficult to enforce liabilities against the Company based solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. The Company is governed by the laws of British Columbia and its principal executive offices are located in Toronto, Ontario and Vancouver, British Columbia. Many of its directors, controlling persons and officers are residents of Canada and a substantial portion of their assets and a majority of Merus’ assets are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult to enforce against Merus or any of its directors, controlling persons, or officers, liabilities based solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. 16 The Company believes that it was a Passive Foreign Investment Company, which may have adverse tax consequences for the Company’s shareholders in the United States. Under U.S. federal income tax laws, Merus believes that Envoy was a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for the year ending September 30, 2011, and that it has been a PFIC in prior years, which may have adverse tax consequences for Merus’ shareholders in the United States. U.S. shareholders are urged to read the section titled “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” in Item 10 of this Form 20-F and to consult their tax advisors concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of holding the common shares of a PFIC. 