ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, and there is no assurance of future profitability. We commenced operations in August 1994 and through January 1996 were engaged primarily in the sale of hardware products to the telephone market. We made the decision in fiscal 2003 to refocus our strategy on developing and selling software applications for the wireless market. Accordingly, our business has changed substantially in recent years, making it difficult to make period-to-period comparisons of our operations and we face all of the risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies. For the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2010, we had a net income of $616,038. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, we had a net income of $70,685. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred net losses of $287,680, $426,004, and $314,892, respectively. Although our cash flows from operations were positive in the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2010 and the years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we are not assured that we can maintain a positive cash flow from operating activities in future periods. There can be no assurance that sales of our products will continue to generate or maintain a positive cash flow or that we will attain or thereafter sustain profitability in any future period. We may be unable to generate the cash necessary to support a competitive level of research and development activities. At September 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $23,975,540 and recorded a net income for the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2010 of $616,038. We also had a working capital deficit at that date of $650,819. Our NotifyLink and NotifySync products will need to sustain a favorable market acceptance in order for us to be able to continue our research and development activities and to fund operating expenses at a level required to stay competitive in our market. Regardless, as our wireless product lines have only generated sufficient contributions to our revenues to date to operate profitably at the current level of research and development for the last two fiscal years, an increase in the level of research and development driven by market pressures could require us to obtain further financing. Obtaining additional financing will be subject to a number of factors including market conditions, investor acceptance of our business plan, and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive or unavailable to us. If, in a situation that required an increase in research and development we are unable to maintain market acceptance of our wireless products or raise additional financing, we will have to significantly reduce our spending, delay or cancel planned activities or substantially change our current corporate structure. In such an event, we intend to implement expense reduction plans in a timely manner. However, these actions would have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and prospects, resulting in a possible failure of our business. If we are unable to develop, market and sell new and improved wireless software products on a timely basis, we could lose existing and potential customers and our sales could decrease. We continue to invest in our wireless software products in order to grow our revenue and improve our financial condition. We need to develop, market and sell new and improved wireless software products on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments, emerging industry standards, and the growing needs of our sophisticated customers. We may experience difficulties in marketing and selling new products, and our inability to timely and cost-effectively introduce new products and future enhancements, or the failure of these new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance, could seriously harm our business. Life cycles of wireless software products are difficult to predict, because the market for such products is relatively new and evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, frequent enhancements to existing products and new product introductions, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. The introduction of competing products that employ new technologies and emerging industry standards could render our products and services obsolete and unmarketable or shorten the life cycles of our products and services. The emergence of new industry standards might require us to redesign our products. If our products are not in compliance with industry standards that become widespread, our customers and potential customers may not purchase our products. Revenues or expenses may vary, affecting our quarterly operating results. We anticipate that we will experience significant fluctuations in our operating results in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. Operating results may vary as a result of many factors, including the following: 5 · our level of research and development; · our sales and marketing activities; · announcements by us or our competitors; · size and timing of orders from customers; · new product introductions by us or our competitors; · future market acceptance of our products; · price erosion. Each of the above factors is difficult to control and forecast. Thus, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the difficulty in forecasting future sales, we generally must undertake research and development and sales and marketing activities and other commitments months or years in advance. Accordingly, any shortfall in product revenues in a given quarter may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because we are unable to adjust expenses during the quarter to match the level of product revenues, if any, for the quarter. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected and we may infringe the rights of others. We regard various features and design aspects of our products as proprietary and rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance, therefore, that any of our competitors, some of whom have far greater resources than we do, will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We need to continue to develop our marketing channels and build our sales force. We continue to develop our formal referral partner channel and our international reseller partners channel. We participate in informal referral arrangements with several wireless carriers, wireless device manufacturers and several of our collaboration partners for the sale of our NotifyLink and NotifySync products and services where our products assist in the sale of their products. We have a limited direct sales force to sell our NotifyLink and NotifySync products and services to organizations and businesses, and we rely upon both formal and informal referral arrangements to provide leads for our NotifyLink and NotifySync products. To date, most of our referral arrangements are formal, and we will receive referrals only to the extent that our referral partners successfully refer our products and services to potential users. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive referrals through our formal or informal arrangements. Our NotifyLink and NotifySync solutions are sold into an emerging market and although we have operated on a cash positive basis in the fiscal years ending September 30, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we have only achieved sufficient growth in our sales to generate net income in the fiscal years 2010 and 2009. We are expanding our distribution channels for our wireless products by participating in national, international and regional trade shows and promotions with strategic partners across the United States, Europe and Africa. We cannot predict whether these activities will result in increased wireless revenue. We also have limited international sales due to limited resources to build a reseller network. Our management will need to expend time and effort to develop these channels. Our customer profile consists of a large number of small to medium business customers thereby reducing our dependence on any one customer. We have expanded our internal sales force in response. We are building experience selling into the wireless market but make use of modest marketing and distribution programs to expand our distribution channels and any marketing efforts undertaken by or on behalf of us may not be successful. Our products may suffer from defects. Most of our products consist of software and services related to our wireless NotifyLink product line. Our NotifyLink products incorporate a mix of new and proven technology that has been tested extensively, but may still contain undetected design flaws. A failure by us to detect and prevent a design flaw or a widespread product defect could materially adversely affect the sales of the affected product and our other products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 6 We depend on key executives. Our potential for success depends significantly on key management employees, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Paul F. DePond, our Vice President of Development, Rhonda Chicone and our Chief Financial Officer, Gerald W. Rice. We have entered into amended and restated employment agreements with these three key management employees. We do not currently have “key man” life insurance on any of these executives or any of our other key employees. The loss of the services of these executives or those of any of our other key employees would materially and adversely affect us. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel. If we were unable to retain or hire the necessary personnel, the development of new products and enhancements to current products would likely be delayed or prevented. Competition for these highly-skilled employees is intense. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining the personnel we require for expansion. We face significant competition. We believe the market for our wireless products is extremely competitive for certain platforms and less competitive for others. Several companies offer wireless solutions and alternatives for Novell GroupWise and Microsoft Exchange. The market for Zimbra, Kerio and CommuniGate offers users multiple alternatives including our NotifyLink solution. We believe our NotifyLink solution is more complete and includes advanced features not available in alternative solutions and appeals to those customers who require or desire the advanced features. In the markets for Sun, Oracle, Mirapoint and Meeting Maker, we have little to no competition at this time. Many customers may not need the full functionality of our NotifyLink solution and may be satisfied with more basic synchronization functionally offered at no charge by our collaboration suite partners. Our new NotifySync product is sold to a niche market of BlackBerry users who desire to operate in an ActiveSync™ environment. The NotifySync product is a non-server based product whose targeted audience is BlackBerry users in an Exchange or Google environment using ActiveSync. If the market for wireless data communications devices does not grow, we may not successfully increase or maintain the sale of our NotifyLink products. The overall market for wireless data communications devices has experienced significant growth in recent years. The success of our NotifyLink Enterprise On-Premise and On-Demand products depends upon this growth. There can be no assurance that the market for wireless software products will continue to grow. We cannot predict that growth of our NotifyLink products will continue. If the various markets in which our software products compete fail to grow, or grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, or if we are unable to establish product markets for our new software products, our business, results of operation and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as Notify Technology, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and must be current in their reports under Section 13 of the Exchange Act, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the liquidity of our securities could be adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Our stock may lose access to a viable trading market. Given the increasing cost and resource demands of being a public company, we may decide to “go dark,” or cease filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission by deregistering our securities, for a period of time until our assets and stockholder base are sufficient to warrant public trading again. During such time, there would be a substantial decrease in disclosure by us of our operations and prospects, and a substantial decrease in the liquidity in our common stock even though stockholders may still continue to trade our common stock in the “pink sheets.” The market’s interpretation of a company’s motivation for “going dark” varies from cost savings, to negative changes in the firm’s prospects, to serving insider interests, which may affect the overall price and liquidity of a company’s securities. 7 Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the trading market in our common stock is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the investment value of our stock. Our common stock is “penny stock” because it is not registered on a national securities exchange or listed on an automated quotation system sponsored by a registered national securities association, pursuant to Rule 3a51-1(a) under the Exchange Act. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · That a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · That the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · Sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · That the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the penny stock rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · Boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced salespersons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequential investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. 8 Our stock price may be volatile The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, the loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees, quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations, changes in earnings estimates, developments in our industry, sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market, general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In addition, stock prices for many companies in the technology sector have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performances of these companies. These factors and fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our charter provisions may discourage acquisition bids. Our Articles of Incorporation give our Board of Directors the authority to issue an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights for these shares, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisition and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. One of our directors holds a large percentage of our stock and is able to exert substantial control over us. David A. Brewer, a member of our Board of Directors and the Chairman of our Audit Committee since 2000, together with an entity affiliated with Mr. Brewer, currently own approximately 56% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Mr. Brewer owns options to purchase an additional fractional percent of our common stock. This represents a significant influence over all matters requiring approval by shareholders, including the election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership will limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Our Articles of Incorporation limit the liability of officers and directors and we have entered into indemnification agreements with them. Our Articles of Incorporation eliminate, in certain circumstances, the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and officers. Each of these indemnification agreements provides that we will indemnify the indemnitee against expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, judgments, penalties, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such director in connection with any civil or criminal action or administrative proceeding arising out of his performance of duties as a director or officer, other than an action instituted by the director or officer. These indemnification agreements also require that we indemnify the director or other party thereto in all cases to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. Each indemnification agreement permits the director or officer that is party thereto to bring suit to seek recovery of amounts due under the indemnification agreement and to recover the expenses of such a suit if they are successful. We currently have directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, but there can be no assurance that any or all of our indemnification obligations will be covered by this insurance or that the insurance limits will not be exceeded. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. ITEM 