Risk Factors That May Impact Future Results In addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors should be carefully considered by shareholders of and potential investors in the Company. Our operating results have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by unfavorable market conditions. Market conditions relative to the segments in which we operate have deteriorated significantly in many of the countries and regions in which we do business, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Our MOCVD order volumes decreased significantly in the latter part of 2011, remained depressed through 2012 and 2013, and may continue to remain at low levels. Foreign government incentives designed to encourage the development of the LED industry have been curtailed, and the demand for our MOCVD products has softened. We have experienced and may continue to experience customer rescheduling and, to a lesser extent, cancellations of orders for our products. Continuing adverse market conditions relative to our products would negatively impact our business, and could result in: •further reduced demand for our products; •further rescheduling and cancellations of orders for our products, resulting in negative backlog adjustments; •increased price competition and lower margin for our products; •increased competition from sellers of used equipment or lower-priced alternatives to our products; •increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; •increased risk in the collectability of amounts due from our customers; •increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; •disruptions in our supply chain as we reduce our purchasing volumes and limit our contract manufacturing operations; and •higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. If the markets in which we participate experience a protracted downturn and/or a slow recovery period, this could negatively impact our sales and revenue generation, margins and operating expenses, and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Timing of market adoption of LED technology for general lighting is uncertain. Our future business prospects depend largely on the adoption of LED technology for general illumination applications, including residential, commercial and street lighting markets. Potential barriers to adoption include higher initial costs and customer familiarity with, and substantial investment and know-how in, existing lighting technologies. While the use of LED technology for general lighting has grown in recent years, challenges remain and widespread adoption may not occur at currently projected rates. The adoption of, or changes in, government policies that discourage the use of traditional lighting technologies may impact LED adoption rates and, in turn, the demand for our products. Furthermore, if new technologies evolve as a viable alternative to LED devices, our current products and technology could be placed at a competitive disadvantage or become obsolete altogether. Delays in the adoption of LED technology for general lighting purposes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our failure to successfully manage our outsourcing activities or failure of our outsourcing partners to perform as anticipated could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to adapt to fluctuating order volumes. To better align our costs with market conditions, increase the percentage of variable costs relative to total costs and to increase productivity and operational efficiency, we have outsourced certain functions to third parties, including the manufacture of all or substantially all of our new MOCVD systems, Data Storage systems and ion sources. We are relying heavily on our outsourcing partners to perform their contracted functions and to allow us the flexibility to adapt to changing market conditions, including periods of significantly diminished order volumes. If our outsourcing partners do not perform as required, or if our outsourcing model does not allow us to realize the intended cost savings and flexibility, our results of operations (and those of our third party providers) may be adversely affected. Disputes and possibly litigation involving third party providers could result and we could suffer damage to our reputation. Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing may also adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market. Although we attempt to select reputable providers, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect. In addition, the role of third party providers has required and will continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and adopt new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers in order to realize operational efficiencies, assure quality, and protect our intellectual property. If we do not effectively manage our outsourcing strategy or if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we may not realize the benefits of productivity improvements and we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, manufacturing and/or installation interruptions or delays, inefficiencies in the structure and/or operation of our supply chain, loss of intellectual property rights, quality issues, increased product time-to-market and/or inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The further reduction or elimination of foreign government subsidies and economic incentives may adversely affect the future order rate for our MOCVD equipment. We generate a significant portion of our revenue in China. In recent years, the Chinese government has provided various incentives to encourage development of the LED industry, including subsidizing a significant portion of the purchase cost of MOCVD equipment. These subsidies have enabled and encouraged certain customers in this region to purchase more of our MOCVD equipment than these customers might have purchased without these subsidies. These subsidies have now been curtailed and are expected to further decline over time and may end at some point in the future. The further reduction or elimination of these incentives may result in a further reduction in future orders for our MOCVD equipment in this region which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A related risk is that many customers use or had planned to use Chinese government subsidies, in addition to other incentives from the Chinese government, to build new manufacturing facilities or to expand existing manufacturing facilities. Delays in the start-up of these facilities or the cancellation of construction plans altogether, together with other related issues pertaining to customer readiness, could adversely impact the timing of our revenue recognition, could result in further order cancellations, and could have other negative effects on our financial condition and operating results. Our operating results have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by tightening credit markets. As a global company with worldwide operations, we are subject to volatility and adverse consequences associated with worldwide economic downturns. As seen in recent years, in the event of a worldwide downturn, many of our customers may delay or further reduce their purchases of our products and services. If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit, 16 Table of Contents product orders in these channels may decrease which could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. With the recent downturn in our MOCVD segment, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, lower than anticipated order levels, cancellations of orders in backlog, rescheduling of customer deliveries, and attendant pricing pressures, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by China's government aimed at preventing overheating of China's economy and controlling China's high level of inflation have limited, and may continue to limit, the availability of financing to our customers in this region. Limited financing, or delays in the timing of such financing, may result in delays and cancellations of shipments of our products (and associated revenues) conditioned on such financing. In addition, we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk by obtaining deposits and/or letters of credit on certain of our sales arrangements. We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not secured fails or is otherwise unable to pay us. A significant loss in collections on our accounts receivable would have a negative impact on our financial results. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation or modification and such cancellation could result in decreased sales and increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventory and/or liabilities to our suppliers for products no longer needed. Customer purchase orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer, sometimes with limited or no penalties. Often, we have incurred expenses prior to such cancellation without adequate monetary compensation. We adjust our backlog for such cancellations, contract modifications, and delivery delays that result in a delivery period in excess of one year, among other items. The current and forecasted downturn in our MOCVD reporting unit could result in further increases in order cancellations and/or postponements. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends and other factors including the consideration of the amount of backlog we have on hand at any particular point in time. If our backlog is canceled or modified, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. A weaker than expected business environment has caused us to record a greater expense for slow moving items in 2012 compared to 2011 which negatively impacted our gross margin for 2012. In the future, if we determine that our inventory is overvalued, we will be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. In addition, we place orders with our suppliers based on our customers' orders to us. If our customers cancel their orders with us, we may not be able to cancel our orders with our suppliers and may be required to take a charge for these cancelled commitments to our suppliers. Any such charges could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory and/or liabilities to our suppliers for products no longer needed, while manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect our ability to meet customer demand. Our business depends on our ability to accurately forecast and supply equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of our customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. The current uncertain worldwide economic conditions and market instabilities make it 17 Table of Contents increasingly difficult for us (and our customers and our suppliers) to accurately forecast future product demand. If actual demand for our products is different than expected, we may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If we overestimate the demand for our products, excess inventory could result which could be subject to heavy price discounting, which could become obsolete, and which could subject us to liabilities to our suppliers for products no longer needed. In addition, the volatility of demand for capital equipment increases capital, technical and other risks for companies in the supply chain. Furthermore, some key parts may be subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers located in countries other than the United States. We may experience significant interruptions of our manufacturing operations, delays in our ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of: •the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; •volatility in the availability and cost of materials; •difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export approvals; •information technology or infrastructure failures; •natural disasters (such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or storms); or •other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war) could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations. In addition, in the event of an unanticipated increase in demand for our products, our need to rapidly increase our business and manufacturing capacity may be limited by working capital constraints of our suppliers and may exacerbate any interruptions in our manufacturing operations and supply chain and the associated effect on our working capital. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cyclicality of the industries we serve directly affects our business. Our business depends in large part upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers in the LED markets, data storage markets, and other device markets. We are subject to the business cycles of these industries, the timing, length, and volatility of which are difficult to predict. These industries have historically been highly cyclical and have experienced significant economic downturns in the last decade. As a capital equipment provider, our revenues depend in large part on the spending patterns of these customers, who often delay expenditures or cancel or reschedule orders in reaction to variations in their businesses or general economic conditions. In downturns, we must be able to quickly and effectively align our costs with prevailing market conditions, as well as motivate and retain key employees. However, because a portion of our costs are fixed, our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to revenue shortfalls may be limited. Downturns in one or more of these industries, including the current MOCVD and Data Storage downturn, have had and will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Alternatively, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to acquire and/or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, and attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. We cannot give assurances that our net sales and operating results will not be adversely affected if our customers experience economic downturns or slowdowns in their businesses. 18 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole source for particular components. We currently outsource certain functions to third parties, including the manufacture of all or substantially all of our new MOCVD systems, Data Storage systems and ion sources. We primarily rely on several suppliers for the manufacturing of these systems. We plan to maintain some level of internal manufacturing capability for these systems. The failure of our present suppliers to meet their contractual obligations under our supply arrangements and our inability to make alternative arrangements or resume the manufacture of these systems ourselves could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows, and relationships with our customers. In addition, certain of the components and sub-assemblies included in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our inability to develop alternative sources, if necessary, could result in a prolonged interruption in supply or a significant increase in the price of one or more components, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our sales to LED and data storage manufacturers are highly dependent on these manufacturers' sales for consumer electronics applications, which can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. The demand for LEDs and hard disk drives is highly dependent on sales of consumer electronics, such as flat-panel televisions and computer monitors, computers, tablets, digital video recorders, camcorders, MP3/4 players, smartphones, cell phones and other mobile devices. Manufacturers of LEDs and hard disk drives are among our largest customers and have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues for the past several years. Factors that could influence the levels of spending on consumer electronic products include consumer confidence, access to credit, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the demand for our customers' products and, in turn, on our customers' demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, manufacturers of LEDs have in the past overestimated their potential market share growth. If this growth is currently overestimated or is overestimated in the future, we may experience further cancellations of orders in backlog, rescheduling of customer deliveries, obsolete inventory and/or liabilities to our suppliers for products no longer needed. In addition, the demand for some of our customers' products can be even more volatile and unpredictable due to the possibility of competing technologies, such as flash memory as an alternative to hard disk drives. Unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our customers' products or rapid shifts in demand from our customers' products to alternative technologies could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business, including the need to obtain export licenses for certain of our shipments and political risks in the countries we operate. Approximately 84%, 90%, and 90% of our net sales for the years ended 2012, 2011 & 2010, respectively were generated from sales outside of the United States. We expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant, and possibly increasing, portion of our sales in the future. Our non-U.S. sales and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including: •difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, managing distributors and representatives, and repatriation of earnings; 19 Table of Contents •regional economic downturns, varying foreign government support, and unstable political environments; •political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors; •longer sales cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; •multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations, including import/export controls and other trade barriers; •reliance on various information systems and information technology to conduct our business, which may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by third parties or breached due to employee error, misuse or other causes that could result in business disruptions, loss of or damage to intellectual property, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, or other adverse consequences should our security practices and procedures prove ineffective, and •different customs and ways of doing business. These challenges, many of which are associated with sales into China, may continue and recur again in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, political instability, terrorism, acts of war or epidemics in regions where we operate may adversely affect or disrupt our business and results of operations. Furthermore, products which are either manufactured in the United States or based on U.S. technology are subject to the United States Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") when exported to and re-exported from international jurisdictions, in addition to the local jurisdiction's export regulations applicable to individual shipments. Currently, our MOCVD deposition systems and certain of our other products are controlled for export under the EAR. Licenses or proper license exceptions may be required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. Obtaining an export license requires cooperation from the customer and customer-facility readiness, and can add time to the order fulfillment process. While we have generally been successful in obtaining export licenses in a timely manner, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that an export license can be obtained in each instance where it is required. If an export license is required but cannot be obtained, then we will not be permitted to export the product to the customer. The administrative processing, potential delay and risk of ultimately not obtaining an export license pose a particular disadvantage to us relative to our non-U.S. competitors who are not required to comply with U.S. export controls. Non-compliance with the EAR or other applicable export regulations could result in a wide range of penalties including the denial of export privileges, fines, criminal penalties, and the seizure of commodities. In the event that any export regulatory body determines that any of our shipments violate applicable export regulations, we could be fined significant sums and/or our export capabilities could be restricted, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any determination that we violated these or similar laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials, as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, many of our customers have policies limiting or prohibiting us from providing certain types or amounts of entertainment, meals or gifts to their employees. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees and representatives. However, our safeguards may prove to be ineffective and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or similar laws or similar customer policies may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions or 20 Table of Contents the loss of supplier privileges to a customer and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The timing of our orders, shipments, and revenue recognition may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. We derive a substantial portion of our net sales in any fiscal period from the sale of a relatively small number of high-priced systems. As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue for a single transaction could have a material effect on our sales and operating results for a particular fiscal period. As is typical in our industry, orders, shipments, and customer acceptances often occur during the last few weeks of a quarter. As a result, delay of only a week or two will determine which period revenue is reported in and can cause volatility in our revenue for a given reporting period. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect this trend to continue. If our orders, shipments, net sales or operating results in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our stock price may be adversely affected. We operate in industries characterized by rapid technological change. All of our businesses are subject to rapid technological change. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to enhance existing products and develop and manufacture new products in a timely and cost effective manner and to accurately predict technology transitions. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, we must anticipate the future demand for products in selecting which development programs to fund and pursue. Our financial results for the current year and in the future will depend to a great extent on the successful introduction of several new products, many of which require achieving increasingly stringent technical specifications. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or new technologies or in enhancing existing products. We face significant competition. We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments, which may increase as certain markets in which we operate continue to expand. Some of our competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services we offer, with a focused approach on innovative technology for specialized markets. New product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower margins. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. We depend on a limited number of customers, located primarily in a limited number of regions, which operate in highly concentrated industries. Our customer base is and has been highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of our net sales, which may lead customers to demand pricing and other terms less favorable to us. Based on net sales, our five largest customers accounted for 34%, 41%, and 55% of our total net sales for the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Customer consolidation activity involving some of our largest customers could result in an even greater concentration of our sales in the future. If a principal customer discontinues its relationship with us or suffers economic setbacks, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales in the future will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers. 21 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. In addition, because a relatively small number of large manufacturers, many of whom are our customers, dominate the industries in which they operate, it may be especially difficult for us to replace these customers if we lose their business. A substantial portion of orders in our backlog are orders from our principal customers. In addition, a substantial investment is required by customers to install and integrate capital equipment into a production line. As a result, once a manufacturer has selected a particular vendor's capital equipment, we believe that the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for the specific production line application and frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendor. Accordingly, if a customer selects a competitor's product over ours for technical superiority or other reasons, we could experience difficulty selling to that customer for a significant period of time. Furthermore, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales and we are exposed to competitive price pressure on each new order we attempt to obtain. Our failure to obtain new sales orders from new or existing customers would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our customer base is also highly concentrated in terms of geography, and the majority of our sales are to customers located in a limited number of countries. In 2012, 55% of our total net sales were to customers located in China, Taiwan and South Korea alone. Dependence upon sales emanating from a limited number of regions increases our risk of exposure to local difficulties and challenges, such as those associated with regional economic downturns, political instability, fluctuating currency exchange rates, natural disasters, social unrest, pandemics, terrorism or acts of war. In addition, we may encounter challenges associated with political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within these countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors. Our reliance upon customer demand arising primarily from a limited number of countries could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable. Historically, we have experienced long and unpredictable sales cycles (the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the time when we recognize revenue from that customer). Our sales cycle can range up to twelve months or longer. The timing of an order often depends on the capital expenditure budget cycle of our customers, which is completely out of our control. In addition, the time it takes us to build a product to customer specifications typically ranges from one to six months. When coupled with the fluctuating amount of time required for shipment, installation and final acceptance, our sales cycles often vary widely, and variations in length of this period can cause further fluctuations in our operating results. As a result of our lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses and selling and general and administrative expenses before we generate revenues for these products. We may never generate the anticipated revenues if a customer cancels or changes plans. Variations in the length of our sales cycle could also cause our sales and, therefore, our cash flow and net income to fluctuate widely from period to period. 22 Table of Contents Our material weaknesses in our internal control which have impeded, and may continue to impede, our ability to file timely and accurate periodic reports may cause us to incur significant additional costs and may continue to affect our stock price. As a public company, we are required to file annual and quarterly periodic reports containing our financial statements with the SEC within prescribed time periods. As part of the NASDAQ stock exchange listing requirements, we are also required to provide our periodic reports, or make them available, to our stockholders within prescribed time periods. We have not been able to, and may continue to be unable to, produce timely financial statements or file these financial statements as part of a periodic report in a timely manner with the SEC or in compliance with the NASDAQ stock exchange listing requirements. Until we complete these remaining filings, we expect to continue to face many of the risks and challenges we have experienced during our extended filing delay period, including: •continued concern on the part of customers, partners, investors, and employees about our financial condition and extended filing delay status, including potential loss of business opportunities; •additional significant time and expense required to complete our remaining filings and the process of maintaining the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ beyond the significant time and expense we have already incurred in connection with our accounting review to date; •continued distraction of our senior management team and our board of directors as we work to complete our remaining filings; •limitations on our ability to raise capital and make acquisitions; and •general reputational harm as a result of the foregoing. If we continue to be unable to issue our financial statements in a timely manner, or if we are not able to obtain the required audit or review of our financial statements by our independent registered public accounting firm in a timely manner, we will not be able to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the SEC and the listing requirements of the NASDAQ stock exchange. We have been notified by the NASDAQ stock exchange that our common stock listing on the NASDAQ stock exchange could be suspended or terminated on or after November 4, 2013 if we have not filed all of our outstanding periodic reports with the SEC by that date. If our common stock listing on the NASDAQ stock exchange is suspended or terminated, or if our stock is removed as a component of certain stock market indices, our stock price could materially suffer. In addition, the Company or members of our management could be subject to investigation and sanction by the SEC and other regulatory authorities. Any or all of the foregoing could result in the commencement of stockholder lawsuits against the Company. Any such litigation, as well as any proceedings that could in the future arise as a result of our filing delay and the circumstances which gave rise to it, may be time consuming and expensive, may divert management attention from the conduct of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and may expose us to costly indemnification obligations to current or former officers, directors, or other personnel, regardless of the outcome of such matter, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. The price of our common shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. The stock market in general and the market for technology stocks in particular, has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. If these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and shareholders could lose all or a substantial part 23 Table of Contents of their investment. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: •general stock market conditions and uncertainty, such as those occasioned by a global liquidity crisis, negative financial news, and a failure of large financial institutions; •receipt of substantial orders or cancellations for our products; •actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; •announcements of financial developments or technological innovations; •our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; •changes in recommendations and/or financial estimates by investment research analysts; •strategic transactions, such as acquisitions, divestitures or spin-offs; •the occurrence of major catastrophic events; •if we continue to be unable to file our required periodic reports in a timely manner with the SEC; •if our stock is suspended or terminated from trading on the NASDAQ stock exchange; and •if our stock is removed as a component from certain stock market indices. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of the Company and technology companies generally. The price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. If similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our inability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees, including those in executive, managerial, engineering and marketing positions, as well as highly skilled and qualified technical personnel and personnel to implement and monitor our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems. Attracting, retaining, and motivating such qualified personnel may be difficult due to challenging industry conditions, competition for such personnel by other technology companies, consolidations and relocations of operations and workforce reductions. While we have entered into Employment Agreements with certain key personnel, our inability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risks. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that are inherent in our anticipated sales, sales commitments and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. Although we attempt to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, hedging activities may not always be available or adequate to eliminate, or even mitigate, the impact of our exchange rate exposure. Failure to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage foreign currency risks properly could materially and adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. 24 Table of Contents The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our limited resources. Our success depends in part upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to certain of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be circumvented, invalidated or rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of other countries may less effectively protect our proprietary rights than U.S. laws. Our outsourcing strategy requires that we share certain portions of our technology with our outsourcing partners, which poses additional risks of infringement and trade secret misappropriation. Infringement of our rights by a third party, possibly for purposes of developing and selling competing products, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities. Similar exposure could result in the event that former employees seek to compete with us, through their unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws. Further, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United States, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing will not be changed in a way detrimental to the sale or use of our products or technology. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by others. From time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent or other rights which they believe cover certain of our products. We also periodically receive notice from customers who believe that we are required to indemnify them for damages they may incur related to infringement claims made against these customers by third parties. Our customary practice is to evaluate such assertions and to consider the available alternatives, including whether to seek a license, if appropriate. However, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are subject to cyber-attacks we could incur substantial costs and, if such attacks are successful, could result in significant liabilities, reputational harm and disruption of our operations. We manage, store and transmit various proprietary information and sensitive data relating to our operations. We may be subject to breaches of the information technology systems we use for these purposes. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or those of third parties, 25 Table of Contents create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or our products, or that otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. The costs to address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive data about us or our customers or other third parties, could expose us, our customers, or other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks associated with evaluating and pursuing these opportunities and integrating these businesses. We have considered numerous acquisition opportunities and completed several significant acquisitions in the past. We may consider acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, many of which are unpredictable and beyond our control, including: •difficulties and increased costs in integrating the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; •diversion of management's attention while evaluating, pursuing, and integrating the business to be acquired; •potential loss of key employees of acquired companies, especially if a relocation or change in responsibilities is involved; •difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations in a cost-effective manner; •lack of synergy or inability to realize expected synergies; •unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; •increased amortization expense relating to intangible assets; and •the potential impairment and write-down of amounts capitalized as intangible assets and goodwill as part of the acquisition, as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company. Our inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We are subject to many of these risks in connection with our recent acquisition of Synos. In addition, if we issue equity securities to pay for an acquisition, the ownership percentage of our then-existing shareholders would be reduced and the value of the shares held by these shareholders could be diluted, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. If we use cash to pay for an acquisition, the payment could significantly reduce the cash that would be available to fund our operations or other purposes. We may be required to take additional impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets or definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets. We are required to assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually for impairment, or on an interim basis whenever certain events occur or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in 26 Table of Contents business climate or a decline in the overall industry, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We are also required to test our definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators of impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate. As part of our long-term strategy, we may pursue future acquisitions of other companies or assets which could potentially increase our goodwill and intangible and long-lived assets. Adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in additional impairment charges to these assets. If our goodwill or intangible and long-lived assets were to become further impaired, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New rules, changes to existing rules, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or change the way we conduct our business. We are subject to internal control evaluations and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance with this requirement is complex, costly, time-consuming and is subject to significant judgment. Our most recent assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. While we have taken steps to address the deficiency, we cannot predict when the deficiency will be remediated or the outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods or if our management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions, the public's perception of our Company may decline and our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. We are subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations in connection with our business operations, including but not limited to regulations related to the development, manufacture, and use of our products. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development, manufacture, or use of certain of our products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have significant operations in locations which could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our operations in the U.S., the Asia-Pacific region and in other areas could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including earthquakes, tsunamis, fires, hurricanes, floods, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and manmade disasters or 27 Table of Contents disruptions. Two such occurrences in 2011 include the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the severe flooding in Thailand. In the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially and adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition. We have adopted certain measures that may have anti-takeover effects which may make an acquisition of our Company by another company more difficult. We have adopted, and may in the future adopt, certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of our Company, any of which a holder of our common stock might not consider in the holder's best interest. These measures include: •"blank check" preferred stock; •classified board of directors; and •certain certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares ("blank check" preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock. As a result, the issuance of the preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with each class serving a staggered three-year term. The existence of a classified board will make it more difficult for our shareholders to change the composition (and therefore the policies) of our board of directors in a relatively short period of time. We have adopted certain certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions which may have anti-takeover effects. These include: (a) requiring certain actions to be taken at a meeting of shareholders rather than by written consent, (b) requiring a super-majority of shareholders to approve certain amendments to our bylaws, (c) limiting the maximum number of directors, and (d) providing that directors may be removed only for "cause." These measures and those described above may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of Veeco that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination, including mergers and asset sales, with an interested stockholder (generally, a 15% or greater stockholder) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The operation of Section 203 may have anti-takeover effects, which could delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. New regulations related to conflict minerals will force us to incur additional expenses, and may make our supply chain more complex, and may result in damage to our relationships with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals. These rules require public companies to perform diligence and to report annually to the SEC whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals we use in the 28 Table of Contents manufacture of our products. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. Given the complexity of our supply chain, we may not be able to ascertain the origins of these minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as conflict mineral free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. These new requirements could limit the pool of suppliers that can provide conflict-free minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 