ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Over 80% of our revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, has been received from our two largest clients. The loss or reduction in business from any of these clients would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The following table represents revenue concentration of our principal clients: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 AT&T Services, Inc. and AT&T Mobility, LLC, subsidiaries of AT&T, Inc. 66.2 % 63.6 % 55.0 % T-Mobile USA, Inc., a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom 18.1 % 21.5 % 26.8 % 7 We may not be able to retain our principal clients. If we were to lose any of our principal clients, we may not be able to timely replace the revenue generated by them. Loss of a principal client could result from many factors, including consolidation or economic downturns in our clients’ industries, as discussed further below. Refer to “Clients” in Item 1. for further discussion of our client contracts. The future revenue we generate from our principal clients may decline or grow at a slower rate than expected or than it has in the past. In the event we lose any of our principal clients or do not receive call volumes anticipated from these clients, we may suffer from the costs of underutilized capacity because of our inability to eliminate all of the costs associated with conducting business with that client, which could exacerbate the effect that the loss of a principal client would have on our operating results and financial condition. For example, there are no guarantees of volume under the current contract with AT&T. In addition, the current contract with AT&T provides for a tiered incentive pricing structure that provides for lower pricing at higher volumes. Additional productivity gains could be necessary to offset the negative impact that lower per-minute revenue at higher volume lev els would have on our margins in future periods. Our client base is concentrated in the communications industry, which has recently experienced consolidation trends. As our clients’ businesses change as a result of merger and acquisition activity, there is no guarantee that the newly formed companies will continue to use our services. Consolidation in the communications industry may decrease the potential number of buyers for our services. Likewise, there is no guarantee that the acquirer of one of our clients will continue to use our services after the consolidation is completed. We are particularly vulnerable on this issue given the relatively few significant clients we currently serve and the concentration of these clients in the telecommunications industry. For example, in late 2006, our client, AT&T acquired another of our clients, Cingular Wireless, LLC (now, AT&T Mobility, LLC), thereby further concentrating our revenue base. There can be no assurance that AT&T Mobility, LLC, AT&T, or other subsidiaries of AT&T will continue to use our services in the future. If we lose principal clients or our service volumes decrease as a result of principal clients being acquired, our business, financial condit ion and results of operations would be adversely affected. We expect to negotiate renewals of our contracts in due course; however, if any of such contracts or any order under such a contract is not ultimately renewed, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our client base is concentrated in the communications industry and our strategy partially depends on a trend of communications companies continuing to outsource non-core services. If the communications industry suffers a downturn or the trend toward outsourcing reverses, our business will suffer. Our current clients are almost exclusively communications companies, which include companies in the wire-line, wireless, cable and broadband lines of business. Over 95% of our revenue in 2009 and 2010 was concentrated in the telecommunications industry. During 2010, we experienced lower call volumes from our customers in the wire-line and wireless businesses which adversely affected our results. Currently, our business is largely dependent on continued demand for our services from clients in this industry and on trends in this industry to purchase outsourced services. The recent economic instability has weakened the demand for the products and services offered by our clients in the telecommunications sector and could continue to affect this demand in the future which would consequently weaken the demand for our services. The weakened demand for our clients’ products and services cou ld also cause a slowdown or reversal of the trend in the telecommunications industry to outsource the services we provide. These factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations, growth prospects, and financial condition in the future. We face considerable pricing pressure in our business, and if we are not able to continually increase productivity, our gross margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our strategy depends in part on our ability to increase productivity. We face significant price pressure arising from our clients’ desire to decrease their operating costs, and from other competitors operating in our targeted markets. Price pressure may be more pronounced during periods of economic uncertainty. In addition, our contract with our largest customer currently contains a tiered pricing structure, under which pricing declines as service volumes increase, creating increased pricing pressures in future years. Accordingly, our ability to maintain our operating margins depends on our ability to improve productivity and reduce operating costs. If we are not able to achieve sufficient improvements in productivity to adequately compensate for potential price decreases, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 8 Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to maximize our facility capacity utilization. Our profitability is influenced by our facility capacity utilization. The majority of our business involves technical support and customer care services initiated by our clients’ customers, and as a result, our capacity utilization varies, and demands on our capacity are, to some degree, beyond our control. We have experienced, and in the future, may experience periods of idle capacity from opening new facilities where forecasted volume levels do not materialize. In addition, we have experienced, and in the future, may experience idle peak period capacity when we open a new facility or terminate or complete a large client program. These periods of idle capacity may be exacerbated if we expand our facilities or open new facilities in anticipation of new client business because we generally do not have the ability to require a client to enter into a long-term contract or to require clients to reimburse us fo r capacity expansion costs if they terminate their relationship with us or do not provide us with anticipated service volumes. From time to time, we assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our facilities. Accordingly, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate or close under-performing facilities in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. In 2010, we determined it was necessary to close facilities in Victoria, Texas, Laramie, Wyoming, Thunder Bay, Ontario, Sarnia, Ontario, Greeley, Colorado and Grand Junction, Colorado. We have also announced the closure of our facility in Alexandria, Louisiana during the first quarter of 2011. These closures result in lease termination costs, severance costs or impairment charges. During 2010, we recognized $2.8 million in impairment losses and restructuring charges related to these closures. We may incur further impairment losses and restructuring charges during 2011 related to our planned closures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal facility capacity utilization. We generate revenue based on the demand for, and inquiries generated by, our clients’ products and services. If our clients’ products and services are not successful or do not generate the anticipated call volumes, our revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. In substantially all of our client relationships, we generate revenue based on the amount of products and services demanded by our clients’ customers. The amount of our revenue also depends on the number and duration of customer inquiries. Consequently, the amount of revenue generated from any particular client is dependent upon consumers’ interest in and use of that client’s products or services. In addition, if the reliability of our clients’ products or services increases as a result of technological improvements, the volume of calls that we service may be reduced. If customer interest in or increased reliability of any products or services offered by our clients and for which we provide outsourced services result in reduced service volumes, our revenue would be diminished. We utilize forecasts made by our clients based on demand from their customers. I f the actual call volumes are materially lower than the forecasted volumes, our financial results could be adversely affected. In 2010, we expanded our capacity to include two new facilities. While the call volumes associated with these additional facilities ramped, we experienced excess capacity and incurred additional costs as we worked towards bringing these facilities to normal operational levels. In 2010, we closed six facilities and have recently announced one more site closure in the first quarter of 2011. If client demand declines due to economic conditions or otherwise, we would not leverage our fixed costs as effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our existing and potential clients are currently decreasing the number of vendors they are using to outsource their business process services. If we lose more business than we gain as a result of this vendor consolidation, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our existing clients and a number of clients we are currently targeting have been decreasing the number of firms they rely on to outsource their business process outsourced services. We believe these clients are taking this action in order to increase accountability and decrease their costs, and under current economic conditions, there is an increased risk that our clients will outsource their business process outsourced services to even fewer firms to reduce costs further. If this consolidation results in us losing one or more of our clients, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, this consolidation could make it more difficult for us to secure new clients, which could limit our growth opportunities. If we experience an interruption to our business, our results of operations may suffer. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our facilities, computer equipment, telecommunications equipment, software systems and clients’ products and confidential client information against damage from telecommunications interruption, power loss, fire, natural disaster, theft, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses, internet interruption, e-commerce interruption, bomb threats, terrorist attacks and other emergencies. Our locations in the Philippines are exposed to a higher risk of weather related interruptions (including typhoon, flood and hurricane) than our North American operations. We maintain procedures and contingency plans to minimize the detrimental impact of adverse events, but if such an event occurs, our procedures and plans 9 may not be successful in protecting us from losses or interruptions. In the event we experience temporary or permanent interruptions or other emergencies at one or more of our facilities, our business could suffer and we may be required to pay contractual damages to our clients or allow our clients to terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not adequately or timely compensate us for all losses we may incur. Further, our telecommunication systems and networks and our ability to timely and consistently access and use telephone, internet, e-commerce, e-mail, facsimile connections and other forms of communication are substantially dependent upon telephone companies, internet service providers, and various telecommunication infrastructures. If such communications are interrupted on a short- or long-term basis, our serv ices would be similarly interrupted and delayed. Our operations in Canada, the Philippines and Costa Rica subject us to the risk of currency exchange fluctuations. Because we conduct a material portion of our business in Canada and the Philippines, we are exposed to market risk from changes in the value of the Canadian dollar and Philippine peso. For the smaller portion of our business that we conduct in Costa Rica, we are exposed to market risk from changes in the value of the Costa Rican colon. Material fluctuations in exchange rates impact our results through translation and consolidation of the financial results of our foreign operations and, therefore, may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have contracts wherein the revenue we earn is denominated in U.S. dollars, but the costs we incur to fulfill our obligations under those contracts are denominated in Canadian dollars, Philippine pesos and, to a lesser extent, the Costa Rican colon. Therefore, the fluctuations in the U.S. dollar to the Canadian dollar, Philippine pes o or Costa Rican colon exchange rates can cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations. During 2010, we engaged in hedging activities relating to our exposure to such fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar and the Philippine peso versus the U.S. dollar. During 2010, we did not enter into hedging agreements for the Costa Rican colon. We may participate in hedging activities in the future relating to the Canadian dollar, Philippine peso and Costa Rican colon. However, currency hedges do not and will not eliminate our exposure to fluctuations in the currencies. In the past few years, there have been large fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against the value of the Canadian dollar. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the value of the Canadian dollar, it would increase our costs and adversely affect our results from operations. Likewise, increases in the value of the Philippine peso or Costa Rican colon, or currencies in other foreign markets in which we may operate in relation to the value of the U.S. dollar would further increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Our contracts generally do not contain minimum purchase requirements and can generally be terminated by our customers on short notice without penalty. We enter into written agreements with each client for our services. We seek to sign multi-year contracts with our clients. However these contracts generally permit termination upon 30 to 90 days notice by our clients, they do not designate us as our clients’ exclusive outsourced services provider, they do not penalize our clients for early termination, they hold us responsible for work performed that does not meet pre-defined specifications and they and do not contain minimum purchase requirements or volume commitments. Accordingly, we face the risk that our clients may cancel or renegotiate contracts we have with them, which may adversely affect our results. In addition, some contracts with our two largest clients either expire in 2011 or are currently under negotiation for renewal, and we cannot guarantee that they will be extended or renewed. If a principal client cancelled or did not renew their contract with us, our results would suffer. In addition, because the amount of revenue generated from any particular client is generally dependent on the volume and activity of our clients’ customers, as described above, our business depends in part on the success of our clients’ products. The number of customers who are attracted to the products of our clients may not be sufficient or our clients may not continue to develop new products that will require our services, in which case it may be more likely for our clients to terminate their contracts with us. Moreover, clients who may not terminate their contacts with us without cause could generally reduce the volume of services they outsource to us which would have an adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and overall financial condition. If we are not able to hire and retain qualified employees, our ability to service our existing customers and retain new customers will be adversely affected. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, train, and retain qualified employees. Our business is labor intensive and, as is typical for our industry, continues to experience high personnel turnover. Our operations, especially our technical support and customer care services, generally require specially trained employees. During 2010, we continued to experience a high rate of employee turnover, which, in turn, requires significant recruiting and training costs. Such turnover adversely affects our operating efficiency, productivity and ability to fully respond to client demand, thereby, adversely impact our operating results. Some of this turnover can be attributed to the fact that we compete for labor not only with other call centers but also with other similar-paying jobs, including retail, oil and gas industry labor, food service, etc. As such, 10 improvements in the local economies in which we operate can adversely affect our ability to recruit agents in those locations. Further increases in employee turnover or failure to effectively address and remedy these high attrition rates would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The addition of new clients or implementation of new projects for existing clients may require us to recruit, hire, and train personnel at accelerated rates. We may not be able to successfully recruit, hire, train, and retain sufficient qualified personnel to adequately staff for existing business or future growth, particularly if we undertake new client relationships in industries in which we have not previously provided services. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses consists of labor-related costs, labor shortages or increases in wages (including minimum wages as mandated by the U.S. and Canadian federal governments, employee benefit costs, employment tax rates, and other labor related expenses) could cause our business, operating profits, and financial condition to suffer. In the past, some of our Canadian employees have attempted to organize a labor union and economic and legislative chan ges in the U.S. may encourage organizing efforts in the future which, if successful, could further increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. We may need to develop new products or services in order to compete for new customers or retain our existing customers. If we are not able to develop new products or services, we may not be able to provide the same level of service provided by our competitors, which could result in the loss of an existing client or being unable to generate new clients. If we are not able to develop new products and services, we could lose market share or not be able to grow our business and diversify our revenue base and thereby reduce our reliance on our significant customers. Failure to implement technological advancements could make our services less competitive. Technologies that our clients or competitors already possess or may in the future develop or acquire may decrease the cost or increase the efficiency of competing services. We believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to invest in technology to be able to compete for new business and maintain service levels for clients. We may not be able to develop and market any new services that use, or effectively compete with, existing or future technologies, and such services may not be commercially successful. Furthermore, our competitors may have greater resources to devote to research and development than we do and, accordingly, may have the ability to develop and market new technologies with which we are unable to successfully compete. Our operating costs may increase as a result of higher labor costs. During the past economic downturns, we, like a number of companies in our industry, sought to limit our labor costs by limiting salary increases and payment of cash bonuses to our employees. During 2010, the local economies in some of the locations in which we operate experienced growth, which caused us to increase labor rates to remain competitive within the local economies. If these growth trends continue, we may need to further increase salaries or otherwise compensate our employees at higher levels in order to remain competitive. Effective July 2009, the U.S. federal minimum wage was increased. The minimum wage applicable to most of our operations in Canada is rising even more dramatically than in the U.S. Higher salaries or other forms of compensation are likely to increase our cost of operations. If such increases are not offset by increased revenue, they will negatively impact our financial results. Conversely, if labor rates decrease due to higher unemployment in the current economic downturn, our cost of operations may decrease. In the past, some of our Canadian employees have attempted to organize a labor union, and economic and legislative changes in the U.S. may encourage organizing efforts in the future which, if successful, could further increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. Our lack of a wide geographic diversity outside of North America may adversely affect our ability to serve existing customers or limit our ability to obtain new customers. Although we currently conduct operations in Canada, the Philippines and Costa Rica, we do not have a wide geographic diversity. Our lack of such diversity could adversely affect our business if one or more of our customers decide to move their existing business process outsourcing services offshore. It may also limit our ability to gain new clients who may require business process service providers to have this greater flexibility across differing geographies. The movement of business process outsourcing services to other countries has been extensively reported in the press. Most analysts continue to believe that many outsourced services will continue to migrate to other countries with lower wages than those prevailing in the U.S. Accordingly, unless and until we continue to develop significant geographic diversity, we may be competitively disadvantaged compared to a number of our competitors who have already devoted significant time and money to establishing extensive offshore operations. 11 If we decide to open facilities in, or otherwise expand into, additional countries, we may not be able to successfully establish operations in the markets that we target. There are certain risks inherent in conducting business in other countries including, but not limited to, exposure to currency fluctuations, difficulties in complying with foreign laws, unexpected changes in government programs, policies, regulatory requirements and labor laws, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political instability, and potentially adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Continuing unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The current recent economic downturn and disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the U.S. and world economies have reduced consumer spending and reduced spending by businesses and such spending has not yet returned to pre-downturn levels. Since our revenue is largely concentrated in the telecommunications industry, and the majority of our business involves technical support and customer care services initiated by our clients’ customers, our revenue is dependent on the amount of telecommunications products and services demanded by our clients’ customers. Consequently, a general reduction in consumer demand for such products and services due to the recession in the domestic and international economies could reduce the demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our existing clients and a number of clients we are currently targeting have been decreasing the number of firms they rely on to outsource their business process outsourced services. Due to financial uncertainties and the potential reduction in demand for our clients’ products and services, our clients and prospective clients may decide to further consolidate the number of firms on which they rely for their business process outsourced services to reduce costs. Under these circumstances, our clients may cancel current contracts with us, or we may fail to attract new clients, which will adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, they may seek price reductions on our contracts as means to lower their costs. If global economic and market conditions remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, op erating results, and financial condition. If we do not effectively manage our growth or control costs related to growth, our results of operations will suffer. We intend to grow our business by increasing the number of services we provide to existing clients by expanding our overall client base in current and new vertical markets and, in the future, through merger and acquisition activity. Growth could place significant strain on our management, employees, operations, operating and financial systems, and other resources. To accommodate significant growth we would be required to open additional facilities, expand and improve our information systems and procedures, and hire, train, motivate, and manage a growing workforce, all of which would increase our costs. Our systems, facilities, procedures, and personnel may not be adequate to support our future operations. Further, we may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth, effectively manage our expanding operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely and profitable basis. During recent years, we incurr ed costs related to excess capacity as we opened new facilities in anticipation of volume levels that did not materialize. As a result, our operating profits declined, and our stock price was adversely impacted. If we are unable to manage our growth efficiently, or if growth does not occur, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could suffer. Increases in the cost of telephone and data services or significant interruptions in such services could adversely affect our business. We depend on telephone and data services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. Because of this dependence, any change to the telecommunications market that would disrupt these services or limit our ability to obtain services at favorable rates could affect our business. We have taken steps to mitigate our exposure to the risks associated with rate fluctuations and service disruption by entering into long-term contracts with various providers for telephone and data services and by investing in redundant circuits. There is no obligation, however, for the vendors to renew their contracts with us or to offer the same or lower rates in the future, and such contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control. In addition, there is no assurance that a redundant circuit would not also be disrupted. A significant increase in the cost of t elephone services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services or any significant interruption in telephone services, could adversely affect our business. 12 We have experienced significant management turnover and need to retain key management personnel. In June 2010, we hired Chad A. Carlson as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. In addition, in October 2010, we hired a new Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and in January 2011, we hired a new Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing. We filled several other key management positions during 2008, 2009 and 2010. High turnover of senior management can adversely impact our client relationships, stock price, our results of operations, and it may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In some cases, we may be required to pay significant amounts of severance to terminated management employees. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel whom we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives. Changes in other key management positions may temporarily aff ect our financial performance and results of operations as the new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and penalties and may cause us to lose clients. We are dependent on IT networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or customer data. As a result, we are subject to contractual terms and numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misap propriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information and unauthorized access to or the unintended release of this information could result in a claim for damage or loss of business and create unfavorable publicity. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. This information may include social security numbers, financial and health information, as well as other personal information. As a result, we are subject to certain contractual terms as well as federal, state and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect personally identifiable information. We take measures to protect against unauthorized access and to comply with these laws and regulations. We use the internet as a mechanism for delivering our services to clients, which may expose us to potential disruptive intrusions. Unauthorized access, system denials of service, or failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations may subject us to contractual liability and damages, loss of business, damages from individual claimants, fines, penalties, criminal prosecution and unfavo rable publicity, any of which could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, third party vendors that we engage to perform services for us may have an unintended release of personally identifiable information. We face risks inherent in conducting business outside of North America. Our operations in Canada accounted for 24.1% and 26.4% and 33.4% of our revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our operations in the Philippines and Costa Rica accounted for 12.7%, 4.1% and 0.2% of our revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We opened our second facility in the Philippines in April 2010 and our facility in Costa Rica in March 2010. An important component of our growth strategy is continued international expansion. There are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including but not limited to: · Competition from local businesses or established multinational companies, who may have firmly established operations in particular foreign markets. This may give these firms an advantage regarding labor and material costs; · Significant changes in U.S. government programs, policies and regulatory requirements with respect to foreign operations or multinational companies; · Potentially adverse U.S. or foreign tax consequences with respect to foreign operations; · Potentially longer working capital cycles; · Unexpected changes in foreign government programs or policies; · Regulatory requirements and labor laws; 13 · Difficulties in staffing and effectively managing foreign operations; · Political and social instability; and · Reluctance of our current or potential new clients to have us provide services to them from a location outside of North America. One or more of these factors may have an impact on our international operations. Our lack of significant international operating experience may result in any of these factors impacting us to a greater degree than they impact our competitors. To the extent one or more of these factors impact our international operations, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations, growth prospects, and financial condition as a whole. Various other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may be exacerbated with regard to international operations, especially in countries where we do not have well-established operations. Such risks include those related to the need to retain key management personnel, the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, increases in operating costs, facility capacity utilization, management of growth and costs related to growth, geopolitical military conditions, interruptions to our business, and the quality and cost of telephone and data services infrastructure. We may need to add specialized sales personnel in order to grow our business. We may have difficulty recruiting candidates for these positions. Our future growth depends on our ability to initiate, develop and maintain new client relationships, as well as our ability to maintain relationships with our existing principal clients. To generate opportunities for new business from existing clients, as well as obtain new clients, we may need to hire specialized sales and marketing staff to introduce new products and services. If we are unable to hire sales people with the specialized skills and knowledge needed to attract new business, we would not be able to diversify our revenue base and thereby reduce our reliance on our significant customers. Our largest stockholder has the ability to significantly influence corporate actions. A. Emmet Stephenson, Jr., one of our co-founders, owned approximately 19.3% of our outstanding common stock as of February 15, 2011. Mr. Stephenson’s spouse also owns shares of our common stock. Under an agreement we have entered into with Mr. Stephenson, so long as Mr. Stephenson, together with members of his family, beneficially owns 10% or more but less than 30% of our outstanding common stock, Mr. Stephenson will be entitled to designate one of our nominees for election to the board. In addition, our bylaws allow that any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock may call a special meeting of our stockholders. The concentration of voting power in Mr. Stephenson’s hands, and the control Mr. Stephenson may exercise over us as described above, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that might otherwise benefit our stockholders.< /p> Our stock price has been volatile and may decline significantly and unexpectedly. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and could be subject to wide fluctuations, in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in management, the degree of success in implementing our business and growth strategies, announcements of new contracts or contract cancellations, announcements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, the perception that significant stockholders may sell or intend to sell their shares, or other events or factors we cannot currently foresee. We are also subject to broad market fluctuations, given the overall volatility of the current U.S. and global economies, where the market prices of equity securities of many companies experience substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companie s. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, because our common stock trades at relatively low volume levels, any change in demand for our stock can be expected to substantially influence market prices thereof. The trading price of our stock varied from a low of $3.77 to a high of $8.20 during 2010. Our quarterly operating results have historically varied and may not be a good indicator of future performance. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience quarterly variations in revenue and operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include, changes in the amount and growth rate of revenue generated from our principal clients; the timing of receipt of payments from our clients; the timing of existing and future client product launches or service offerings; unanticipated volume fluctuations; expiration or termination of client projects; timing and amount of costs incurred to expand capacity in order to provide for further revenue growth from existing and future clients; and the seasonal nature of some clients’ businesses. 14 If we are unable to renew or replace sources of capital funding on satisfactory terms, potential growth and results of operations may suffer. We have a $10.0 million line of credit, which is scheduled to expire on August 1, 2011 (See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Contractual Obligations”). As of December 31, 2010, there was no balance outstanding on the line of credit. We drew and repaid approximately $2.0 million on the line during 2010. However, if we are unable to renew the line of credit or are unable to secure alternative sources of debt or capital financing under satisfactory terms, or at all, we may lose an important source of liquidity and be unable to meet short-term cash needs required for growth opportunities. This may adversely impact our financial results. In addition, if we do not meet the debt covenant requirements under the line of credit, we could fa ce adverse effects on our financial statements, including payments for waivers or higher interest rate obligations. We believe we will obtain financing to replace or extend this line of credit that will allow us to meet our short-term cash needs. However, the weakened conditions of the U.S. credit markets may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing. If we fail to integrate businesses and assets that we may acquire through acquisitions, we may lose clients, and our liquidity, capital resources and profitability may be adversely affected. We may pursue strategic acquisitions of companies with services, technologies, industry specializations, or geographic coverage that extend or complement our existing business. Acquisitions and joint ventures often involve a number of special risks, including the following: · We may encounter difficulties integrating acquired software, operations and personnel and our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; · We may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired technology and rights into our service offerings and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · The businesses or assets we acquire may fail to achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated, causing us to incur additional debt to fund operations and to write down the value of acquisitions on our financial statements; · We may assume liabilities associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products or services; · Our resources may be diverted in asserting and defending our legal rights and we may ultimately be liable for contingent and other liabilities, not previously disclosed to us, of the companies that we acquire; · Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing business and dilute our ownership interest; · Acquisitions may result in litigation from former employees or third parties; and · Due diligence may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, ownership rights and legal contingencies, among other matters. In addition, negotiation of potential acquisitions and the resulting integration of acquired businesses, products, or technologies, could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause us to issue dilutive equity or incur debt, contingent liabilities, additional amortization charges from intangible assets, asset impairment charges, or write-off charges for in-process research and development and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 