ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements in this document and those made from time to time by us through our senior management are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements concerning the expected future revenues or earnings or concerning projected plans, performance, or development of products and services, as well as other estimates related to future operations, are necessarily only estimates of future results and there can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements represent management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: 9 Table of Contents We continue to require substantial amounts of capital. Our development efforts to date have consumed and will continue to require substantial amounts of capital in connection with research and development of Symphony, Prelude and specialty pharmaceuticals programs. As we conduct more advanced development of our products, we will need significant funding to complete our product development programs and to pursue product commercialization. Our ability to meet our research, development and planned commercialization activities associated with our product pipeline is highly dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient financing. We have a history of operating losses and we expect our operating losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have generated limited revenue and have had operating losses since inception, including a net loss of approximately $4,100,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $71,500,000. Losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with our research and development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We also expect to have negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. This will result in decreases in our working capital, total assets and shareholders’ equity, which may not be offset by future funding. It is possible that we will never generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We expect our operating losses to continue and increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to expend substantial resources to conduct research and development, seek to obtain regulatory approval for Symphony, Prelude, and Durhalieve, identify and secure collaborative partnerships, and manage and execute our obligations in possible strategic collaborations. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity. Our principal shareholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence. Our principal shareholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the composition of a majority of our Board of Directors, retain the voting power to approve certain matters requiring shareholder approval, and continue to have significant influence over our affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control. Furthermore, so long as the purchasers in our January 2007 strategic private placement own 20% of the shares purchased in that transaction, the purchasers have the right to designate one director for election to our Board of Directors. The candidate is designated by the purchaser holding at least a majority of the shares of Common Stock purchased in the January 2007 financing, and such holder is currently Sherbrooke Partners, LLC, a beneficial owner of approximately 5.92% of our outstanding Common Stock as of March 16, 2011. Additionally, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with a concentration of ownership. Our future success is dependent upon successful collaborations with strategic partners. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to selectively enter into and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties for technology research and development, clinical testing, product development and sales and marketing. If we are unable to enter into additional development agreements or collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, we will be required to internally fund all of our product development activities, significantly increasing business risk and capital requirements in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new products. We could also encounter significant delays in introducing products into markets or find that the development, manufacture or sale of proposed products in such markets is adversely affected by the absence of those collaborative arrangements. The process of establishing collaborative partners is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. Discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborative relationships on favorable terms, if at all. If successful in establishing a collaborative agreement, such agreement may never result in the successful development of products or the generation of significant revenue. Any such agreements could limit our flexibility in pursuing alternatives for the development or commercialization of our products. Even if we were to enter into additional collaborative arrangements with third parties, there can be no assurance that our financial condition or results of operations will significantly improve. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. 10 Table of Contents The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly. This price may be influenced by many factors, including: • our financial condition, performance and prospects; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our Common Stock; • our ability to enter into successful collaborative arrangements with strategic partners for research and development, clinical testing, and sales and marketing; • sales by selling shareholders of shares issued and issuable in connection with our private placements; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology and life sciences sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Securities we issue to fund our operations could dilute or otherwise adversely affect our shareholders. We need to raise substantial additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of current shareholders will be significantly reduced and the new equity securities may have rights senior to those of the shares of our Common Stock. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to current investors or us. We may delay, limit or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. Risks related to our discovery, development and commercialization of new medical products Our medical device products are based on new technologies and may not be successfully developed or achieve market acceptance. Most of our products under development have a high risk of failure because they are based on new technologies. To date, we have tested the feasibility of Prelude for various applications, including continuous glucose monitoring and certain topical anesthetic applications. We have also tested the feasibility of Symphony for the monitoring of glucose on a continuous basis; however, to develop additional products or additional uses, substantial expenditures will be required, including for feasibility studies, pre-clinical studies and clinical testing. Projected costs for such development are difficult to estimate and they may change and increase frequently. Our success is dependent on further developing new and existing products and obtaining favorable results from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and satisfying regulatory standards and approvals required for the market introduction of such products, including skin permeation methods and Symphony. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter unforeseen problems in the development of Symphony and Prelude, or that we will be able to successfully address the problems that do arise. There can be no assurance that any of our potential products will be successfully developed, proven safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs, or be eligible for third-party reimbursement from governmental or private insurers. Even if we successfully develop new products, there can be no assurance that such products will be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance, or that expected markets will develop for such products. If any of our development programs are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals or clearances are not obtained, or potential products for which approvals or clearances are obtained are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents In addition, because our products are based on new technologies, they are subject to lengthy sales cycles and may take substantial time and effort to achieve market acceptance, especially at hospitals, which typically have a lengthy and rigorous approval process for adopting new technologies. Our future success may be dependent in part upon successful development of Symphony for the hospital critical care market. We have completed the initial prototypes and have conducted several feasibility human clinical studies at a leading Boston-area hospital, with a member of our Medical Advisory Board serving as principal investigator. Although we believe the clinical rationale exists for Symphony for the critical care market, there can be no assurance that such a market will be established, or that we will be able to successfully develop a product that will prove effective for this market or gain market acceptance should such a market develop. Our Symphony product development process may take several years and will require substantial capital outlays. If the critical care market does not develop as we expect, or if we are unable to successfully develop Symphony for such markets on a timely basis and within cost constraints, then our business and financial results will be materially adversely affected. Our pharmaceutical products are in various stages of development and may not be successfully developed or obtain regulatory approval. The product candidates in our AzoneTS pipeline are at various stages of developments. We have filed a NDA covering Durhalieve, our most advanced AzoneTS product candidate, for corticosteroid responsive dermatoses, with the FDA and we are now seeking to satisfy FDA manufacturing requirements necessary to secure market approval. We believe that the failure to advance Durhalieve beyond its current stage of development may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully complete clinical trials and other requirements needed to secure approval of our product candidates. As a result, our nonclinical and clinical development programs may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval or successfully commercialize our product candidates. We may not be able to gain market acceptance of our product candidates, which would prevent us from becoming profitable. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and the medical community in general. The degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: • Our establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates; • Our ability to create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market; and • Our ability to establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our treatments over alternative treatment methods. These and other factors combined with obtaining regulatory approvals will not guarantee future revenues. Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical products to determine whether they should be covered by reimbursement and, if so, the level of reimbursement that will apply. We cannot be certain that third party payers will sufficiently reimburse sales of our products, or enable us to sell our products at profitable prices. Similar concerns could also limit the reimbursement amounts that health insurers or government agencies in other countries are prepared to pay for our products. In many areas where we plan to market our products, including Europe, Japan and Canada, the pricing of prescription drugs is controlled by the government or regulatory agencies. Government or other regulatory agencies in these countries could determine that the pricing for our products should be based on prices of other commercially available drugs for the same disease, rather than allowing us to market our products at a premium as new drugs. Sales of medical products also depend on physicians’ willingness to prescribe the treatment, which is likely to be based on a determination by these physicians that the products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost-effective. We cannot predict whether physicians, other healthcare providers, government agencies or private insurers will determine that our products are safe, therapeutically effective and cost effective relative to competing treatments. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain and maintain the third party relationships that are necessary to develop, commercialize and manufacture some or all of our product candidates. We expect to depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, contract research organizations, manufacturers and other third parties to support our efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates, to manufacture clinical and commercial scale quantities of our product candidates and products and to market, sell, and distribute any products we successfully develop. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, manufacturers and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates, which will in turn adversely affect our business. We expect to expend substantial management time and effort to enter into relationships with third parties and, if we successfully enter into such relationships, to manage these relationships. We must attract and retain collaborative partners and develop technologies and pipeline candidates that meet the requirements of prospective collaborative partners. In addition, substantial amounts of our expenditures will be paid to third parties in these relationships. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion, if at all. In addition, our contract partners will generally have the right to abandon research projects and terminate applicable agreements, including funding obligations, prior to or upon the expiration of agreed upon research terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in establishing multiple future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, that current or future collaborative partners will not terminate funding before completion of projects, that our existing or future collaborative arrangements will result in successful product commercialization or that we will derive any revenues from such arrangements. Some or all of our collaborative partners may receive exclusive or co-exclusive rights to market products incorporating our technology in a particular field of use or a particular territory. The grant of such rights will limit our alternatives in commercializing certain of our products and technologies. We have no experience in sales, marketing and distribution and may have to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, which could prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. To commercialize our product candidates, we must either develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. If we enter into third party arrangements, the third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our products. If we decide to market any of our products on our own, we will have to commit significant resources to developing a marketing and sales force and supporting distribution capabilities. If we decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for performance of these services, we may find that they are not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are not able to establish and maintain successful arrangements with third parties or build our own sales and marketing infrastructure, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. Disputes under key agreements or conflicts of interest with our scientific advisors, clinical investigators or other third party collaborators could delay or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates. Any agreements we have or may enter into with third parties, such as collaborators, licensees, suppliers, manufacturers, clinical research organizations, clinical investigators or clinical trial sites, may give rise to disputes regarding the rights and obligations of the parties. Disagreements could develop over rights to ownership or use of intellectual property, the scope and direction of research and development, the approach for regulatory approvals or commercialization strategy. We intend to conduct research programs in a range of therapeutic areas, but our pursuit of these opportunities could result in conflicts with the other parties to these agreements that may be developing or selling pharmaceuticals or conducting other activities in the same therapeutic areas. Any disputes or commercial conflicts could lead to the termination of our agreements, delay progress of our product development programs, compromise our ability to renew agreements or obtain future agreements, lead to the loss of intellectual property rights or result in costly litigation. We collaborate with outside scientific advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. Our scientific advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. If a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. 13 Table of Contents We may have challenges in managing our outside contractors for product and regulatory accomplishments. We rely heavily upon and have relationships with outside contractors and consultants with expertise in drug development, regulatory strategy, manufacturing and other matters. These parties are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of consultants and outside contractors and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration and consulting agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. If any third party with whom we have or enter into a relationship is unable or refuses to contribute to projects on which we need their help, our ability to generate advances in our technologies and develop our product candidates could be significantly harmed. Risks related to regulatory approvals None of our product candidates has received regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates, our business will be adversely affected. Most of our pharmaceutical product candidates are in early stages of development, and we do not expect these product candidates to be commercially available in the foreseeable future, if at all. Our product candidates are subject to strict regulation by regulatory authorities in the United States and in other countries. In particular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic product candidates are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other requirements by the FDA in the United States and similar authorities in other countries in order to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or inadequate manufacturing processes could also prevent product approval. Because our product candidates involve or are expected to involve the application of new technologies or are based upon a new therapeutic approach, they may be subject to substantial additional review by various governmental regulatory authorities and, as a result, the process of obtaining regulatory approval for them may proceed more slowly than for product candidates based upon more conventional technologies. Furthermore, we may encounter delays or rejections due to additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in FDA policy. We do not know whether regulatory agencies will grant approval for any of our product candidates. Even if we complete preclinical studies and clinical trials successfully, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or we may not receive approval to make claims about our products that we believe to be necessary to effectively market our products. We cannot market any product candidate until we have completed all necessary preclinical studies and clinical trials and have obtained the necessary regulatory approvals. Outside the United States, our ability to market any of our potential products is dependent upon receiving marketing approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above plus additional risks. If we are unable to receive regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our business may fail. If we are unable to successfully complete the preclinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support PMA or NDA submissions to the FDA, we may be unable to commercialize Symphony, Prelude or AzoneTS products under development, which could impair our financial position. Before submitting a PMA application to the FDA for Symphony (which includes our Prelude SkinPrep System) or a NDA for an AzoneTS product candidate, we must successfully complete preclinical studies and clinical trials that we believe will demonstrate that our product is safe and effective. Product development, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failure at any stage. Furthermore, the data obtained from the studies and trial may be inadequate to support approval of a PMA or NDA, as the case may be. With respect to our medical device programs, while we have in the past obtained, and may in the future obtain, an Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, prior to commencing clinical trials for Symphony, FDA approval of an IDE application permitting us to conduct testing does not mean that the FDA will consider the data gathered in the trial to be sufficient to support approval of a PMA application, even if the trial’s intended safety and efficacy endpoints are achieved. 14 Table of Contents The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA or NDA, as the case may be, for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients do not comply with trial protocols; • patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect; • patients experience adverse side effects; • patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our products; • institutional review boards (“IRBs”) and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol; • third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator agreements, clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA or IRB requirements; • third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans; • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or contract manufacturing facilities may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; or • the FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results, and predecessor clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to prove safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the approval of our products. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market our products. The data we collect from our current clinical trials, our pre-clinical studies and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA approval. The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. The preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of medical devices and specialty pharmaceuticals are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the United States and other countries. We must obtain regulatory approval for each of our product candidates before marketing or selling any of them. It is not possible to predict how long the approval processes of the FDA or any other applicable federal or foreign regulatory authority or agency for any of our products will take or whether any such approvals ultimately will be granted. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the medical device and drug approval process, and positive results in preclinical testing or early phases of clinical studies offer no assurance of success in later phases of the approval process. Generally, preclinical and clinical testing of products can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we encounter significant delays in the regulatory process that result in excessive costs, this may prevent us from continuing to develop our product candidates. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to generate product revenue. The risks associated with the approval process include: • failure of our product candidates to meet a regulatory entity’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality; 15 Table of Contents • limitation on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; and • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines. If we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our product candidates, the use of our potential products could be severely limited. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend significantly on our ability to obtain acceptable prices and the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved healthcare products. If our potential products are not considered cost-effective or if we fail to generate adequate third-party reimbursement for the users of our potential products and treatments, then we may be unable to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. In both the United States and other markets, sales of our potential products, if any, will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, examples of which include government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations, and pharmacy benefit management companies. 16 Table of Contents Risks related to competition We operate in highly competitive medical device and specialty pharmaceuticals markets and face competition from large, well-established companies with significantly more resources, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. The industries in which we operate are extremely competitive. Many companies, universities, and research organizations developing competing product candidates have greater resources and significantly greater experience in financial, research and development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution, and regulatory matters than we have. In addition, many competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive collaborative relationships. Our competitors could commence and complete clinical testing of their product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals, and begin commercial-scale manufacturing of their products faster than we are able to for our products. They could develop products that would render our product candidates and those of our collaborators obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than us. If we are unable to compete effectively against these companies, then we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates or achieve a competitive position in the market. This would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. The markets for glucose monitoring devices and specialty pharmaceuticals are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Several companies are developing or currently marketing (for diabetes home-use purposes) continuous glucose monitoring products that will compete directly with our Symphony tCGM System. To date, Abbott, Cygnus, DexCom and Medtronic have received approval from the FDA for continuous glucose monitors for diabetes home-use purposes. The product originally developed and marketed by Cygnus is no longer actively marketed. No company has received FDA approval for continuous glucose monitoring in a hospital setting but Edwards Lifesciences, Luminous Medical, Optiscan and Glumetrics are among those companies actively developing continuous or near-continuous glucose monitoring devices for use in critical care. Most of the companies developing or marketing competing glucose monitoring devices and specialty pharmaceuticals are publicly traded or divisions of publicly-traded companies and these companies enjoy several competitive advantages, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved products; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products. No continuous glucose monitoring system has yet received FDA clearance as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices, and Symphony may never be approved for that indication. We do not expect Symphony to eliminate the need for single-point finger stick devices in the foreseeable future. At present, there is no established precedent for FDA approval of a continuous glucose monitoring system in a hospital environment or as a replacement technology for standard of care blood glucose monitoring. Technological breakthroughs in the glucose monitoring market could render our product obsolete. The glucose monitoring market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Our product is based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies and medical researchers are pursuing new technologies for the monitoring of glucose levels. FDA approval of a commercially viable continuous glucose monitor or sensor produced by one of our competitors could significantly reduce market acceptance of our system. Several of our competitors are in various stages of developing continuous glucose monitors or sensors, including non-invasive and invasive devices, and the FDA has approved four of these competing products. In addition, the National Institutes of Health and other supporters of diabetes research are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve treatment of diabetes. As a result, our products may be rendered obsolete by technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment, prevention or cure. 17 Table of Contents Risks related to products liability exposure We may have significant product liability exposure which may harm our business and our reputation. We face exposure to product liability and other claims if our product candidates, products or processes are alleged to have caused harm. These risks are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, and marketing of human therapeutic products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products or product candidates that we develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, product candidates or processes, our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also generate negative publicity or hurt our ability to obtain physician endorsement of our products or expand our business. Risks related to our intellectual property Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and our ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark law, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property; however, such methods may not be adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or at all. Our issued patents, and those that may issue in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. To protect our proprietary rights, we may in the future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, invalid or unenforceable, and could award attorney fees to the other party. Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, third parties may be able to design around our patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. We are subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from commercializing our product candidates, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. As is generally the case in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries in which we operate, third-parties may, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain; therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties or others. Our competitors may assert that our product candidates, technologies and/or the methods we employ in the use of Symphony and/or AzoneTS pipeline candidates are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued patents and pending patent applications relating to self-monitored glucose testing systems in the medical technology field. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components of our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the market for continuous glucose monitoring systems and specialty pharmaceuticals grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. 18 Table of Contents Any infringement or misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling our product that is found to infringe unless we obtain the right to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain such rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Even if we are able to redesign our products to avoid an infringement claim, we may not receive FDA approval for such changes in a timely manner or at all. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages and prejudgment interest for such infringement and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, selling or offering to sell our products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. 