D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. In addition, risk and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect its business. Risk Factors Associated with the our Business We may not be able to implement our strategy to grow our business and expand our revenues. We have historically increased sales and net income through strategic acquisitions, licensing and related internal growth initiatives intended to develop marketing opportunities with respect to acquired product lines. Our strategy is focused on increasing sales and enhancing our competitive standing and enabling us to promote and sell new products through existing and new marketing and distribution channels. Since we engage in limited proprietary research activity with respect to product development, we rely heavily on purchasing product lines from other companies. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than us, may compete for the acquisition of products. We may not be able to acquire rights to additional products on acceptable terms, if at all, or be able to obtain future financing for acquisition on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to effect acquisitions of additional branded products could limit the overall growth of our business. Furthermore, even if we are able to obtain rights to pharmaceutical products, we may not generate sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. For example, the marketing strategy, distribution channels and levels of competition with respect to acquired products may be different than those of our current products, limiting our ability to compete favourably in those product categories. If we are not able to acquire the license rights to new products, we may not be able to execute our business strategy and generate revenues as planned. We depend on acquisition of rights to products from other companies as the primary source for new products. Risks in acquiring new products include: (a) the ability to locate new products that are attractive and complement our business, and (b) the price to acquire or obtain the license for these products may be too costly to justify the acquisition. We also face competition from other pharmaceutical companies in acquiring rights to products, which makes it more difficult to find attractive products on acceptable terms. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is subject to rapid and significant technological change, which could render our technologies and products obsolete or uncompetitive. Our products will face competition from new pharmaceutical and biotech products that treat some of the same diseases and conditions as our products. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and selling and marketing capabilities. We will face further competition from drug development companies that focus their efforts on developing and marketing products that are similar in nature to our products, but that in some instances offer improvements over our products, such as less frequent dosing, more pleasant taste, new dosage formats and other novel approaches to improve existing products. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or less expensive to use than any that we may license or acquire. These developments could render our products obsolete or uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 9 Core patent protection for our initial portfolio has expired or will expire in the future, which could result in significant competition from generic products resulting in a significant reduction in sales. The core patents protecting our Vancocin® products expired on July 13, 2010 and the core patents protecting our ENABLEX products expire in August 2016, which could result in significant competition from generic products and could result in a significant reduction in sales. In such situations, in order to continue to obtain commercial benefits from our products, we will rely on product manufacturing trade secrets, know-how and related non-patent intellectual property. The effect of this patent expiration depends, among other things, upon the nature of the market and the position of our products in the market from time to time, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of manufacture of a competitive product and regulatory approval requirements of generic drug laws. In the event that competition develops from generic products, this competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The entrance into the market of a generic pharmaceutical product may erode the branded product’s market share which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In December 2011, Health Canada granted a notice of compliance (“NOC”) to Pharmaceutical Partners of Canada Inc. (“PPC”), which grants PPC the authority to market their generic version of Vancocin capsules in the Canadian market. In July 2012, PPC confirmed its intentions to market a generic Vancomycin capsule product and in November 2012 gained reimbursement listing status in a number of provinces. The entry of this generic product has had a material adverse effect on the sales of Merus’ branded Vancocin capsules and other existing and future market entrants may also have a material adverse effect on sales. We may not be able to protect and maintain our intellectual property and licensing arrangements which could impact our ability to compete effectively in our targeted markets. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect and maintain intellectual property rights and licensing arrangements for our products. No assurance can be given that the licenses or rights used by our company will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to our company. Any loss of intellectual property protection is likely to adversely affect our operating results. Our commercial success will also depend in part on us not infringing patents or proprietary rights of others and not breaching the licenses granted to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a license to any third party technology that it may be required to conduct our business or that such technology can be licensed at a reasonable cost. There is no certainty that we will not be challenged by our partners for non-compliance with our existing or future licensing arrangements. Consequently, there may be a risk that licensing arrangements are withdrawn with no compensation or penalties to us. We may be subject to product liability claims, which can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearance is obtained, can result in product liability claims. Product liability claims can be expensive, difficult to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against our company. In addition, third party collaborators and licensees may not protect us from product liability claims. We will maintain product liability insurance in connection with the marketing of our products. Merus may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities arising from product sales. If Merus is unable to obtain sufficient levels of insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims Merus will be exposed to product liability claims. A successful product liability claim in excess of its insurance coverage could harm its financial condition, results of operations and prevent or interfere with its product commercialization efforts. In addition, any successful claim may prevent Merus from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable terms. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim may be time-consuming and expensive and would result in Merus needing to divert resources which could otherwise be used in developing its business. 10 Unexpected products safety or efficacy concerns may arise and result in unanticipated costs associated with product liability defence claims and potential reduction in revenues. Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and operating results. Uncertainty can arise regarding the applicability of our proprietary information which could result in unanticipated competition. We will rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information as well as requiring employees, suppliers and other third-party service providers to sign confidentiality agreements. However, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information without infringing upon any proprietary technology. Third parties may otherwise gain access to our proprietary information and adopt it in a competitive manner. If a third party obtains our proprietary information and adopts it in a competitive manner, it may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have significant liabilities which require us to generate significant cash flows from operations in order to make mandated payments of principal and interest We have incurred significant liabilities in connection with the acquisition of our current product line. Our ability to repay these liabilities will be contingent upon our success in achieving sufficient revenues from these products to be able to make payments of principal and interest against this debt when due and payable. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure future additional financing to repay our current debt facility or our outstanding convertible debentures should cash flows from operations be insufficient to repay these liabilities. Our inability to repay outstanding debt when due would have a material adverse impact on our business. We may not be able to secure additional financing which may impair our ability to complete future acquisitions or refinance current liabilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise the additional funding that we need to carry out our business objectives. The development of our business depends upon prevailing capital market conditions, our business performance and our ability to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining required financing as and when needed or at all. If additional financing is raised by the issuance of shares from treasury, control of our company may change and shareholders may suffer additional dilution. We may not be able to implement our business strategy which may impair our ability to generate future revenues. The growth and expansion of our business is heavily dependent upon the successful implementation of our business strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the implementation of our business strategy. We may not be able to continue to meet certain covenants under its existing credit facilities and our inability to meet these covenants could result in acceleration of our long term liabilities. Our credit facilities require us to maintain specified collateral coverage ratios and satisfy financial covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet certain covenants under its existing credit facilities. A failure to meet such covenants could result in our lenders seeking to enforce their security under such credit facilities. This may negatively affect our financial condition, business and operating results. Our credit facility also contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: 11 incur additional indebtedness; repurchase certain indebtedness; pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions; make investments; create certain liens; transfer or sell assets; merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; create restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. The restrictions in our credit facilities governing our other indebtedness may prevent it from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness, at maturity or otherwise, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facilities may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control including credit or capital market disruptions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default that would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay the indebtedness, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. This could have serious consequences to our financial position and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. We rely on third parties to undertake promotion and distribution of our products in certain markets and their inability to successfully market our products may impact on our ability to generate revenues in these markets. We have entered into promotion and distribution agreements with selected partners in certain European countries for our Enablex product. We will rely on these partners to undertake marketing and sales efforts in countries for which promotion and distribution rights have beene granted. There is no assurance that our partners will effectively be able to achieve significant sales of products in their respective territories and their inability to do so may impact adversely on our revenues and our results of operations. We rely on third parties to manufacture our products and the inability of these third parties to manufacture our products in accordance with our requirements may impact on our ability to generate revenues. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture pharmaceutical products and rely on third parties to manufacture our products. We cannot be certain that manufacturing sources will continue to be available or that we will be able to continue to outsource the manufacturing of our products on reasonable or acceptable terms. In addition, outsourcing manufacturing exposes us to a number of risks which are outside our control, including: our suppliers may fail to comply with government mandated current good manufacturing practices which include quality control and quality assurance requirements, and the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation and manufacture of products according to the specifications contained in the applicable regulatory file resulting in mandated production halts or limitations; or our suppliers may experience manufacturing quality, control or yield issues which would require the supplier to halt or limit production of our products. If we encounter delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers, packagers or distributors, sales of our products could be delayed. If we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process, regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the product produced by the new source or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials that were conducted. If we are unable to demonstrate this equivalence, we will be unable to manufacture products from the new source or location of supply, or use the modified process. We may incur substantial expenses in order to ensure equivalence. This may negatively affect its business, financial condition and operating results. 12 If our supply of finished products is interrupted, our ability to maintain inventory levels could suffer and future revenues could be delayed. Supply interruptions may occur and our inventory of finished products may not always be adequate to satisfy demand. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products, including failure to have a third party supply chain validated in a timely manner, shortages in raw material and packaging components required by our manufacturers, changes in our sources for manufacturing or packaging, our failure to timely locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. There can be no assurances that our other products will not be interrupted in the future. This may have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. We will rely on third parties to perform distribution, logistics, regulatory and sales services for our products and their inability to perform these services in accordance with our requirements could cause our business to suffer. We will rely on third parties to provide distribution, logistics, regulatory and sales services including warehousing of finished product, accounts receivable management, billing, collection and record keeping. If the third parties cease to be able to provide us with these services, or do not provide these services in a timely or professional manner we may not be able to successfully manage the product revenues or integrate new products into its business, which may result in decreases in sales. Additionally, any delay or interruption in the process or in payment could result in a delay delivering product to our customers, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials may adversely impact market demand for our products. From time-to-time, studies or clinical trials on various aspects of pharmaceutical products are conducted by academics or others, including government agencies. The results of these studies or trials, when published, may have a dramatic effect on the market for the pharmaceutical product that is the subject of the study. The publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our products or the therapeutic areas in which our products compete could adversely affect our sales, the prescription trends for our products and the reputation of our products. In the event of the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our products or the therapeutic areas in which Merus’ products compete, Merus’ business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We must successfully integrate any products that we acquired or will acquire in the future in order that we can generate anticipated revenues from these products. We will pursue additional products that could complement or expand our business. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates in the future. If an acquisition candidate is identified, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate the terms of any such acquisition, finance such acquisition or integrate such acquired product or business into its existing products and business. Furthermore, the negotiation of potential acquisitions and integration of acquired product lines could divert management’s time and resources, and require significant resources to consummate. If we consummate one or more significant acquisitions through the issuance of Common Shares, our shareholders could suffer significant dilution of their ownership interests. Our inability to attract and retain key managerial personnel may adversely impact our ability to carry out our business operations and strategies as planned. We are highly dependent on qualified managerial personnel. Our anticipated growth will require additional expertise and the addition of new qualified personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key managerial personnel in a timely manner, would harm its business development programs, and our ability to manage day-to-day operations, attract collaboration partners, attract and retain other employees and generate revenues. We may not maintain key person life insurance on any of its employees. 13 Increases in sales may attract generic competition which could impact on the prices that we are able to charge for our products. If sales of any of our products that no longer enjoy market exclusivity or are not sufficiently protected by associated intellectual property were to increase substantially, competitors may be more likely to develop generic formulations that compete directly with our products. Increased generic competition would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our business is subject to limitations imposed by government regulation which may increase our costs of regulatory compliance as well as impact adversely on our ability to market and sell our products. In both domestic and foreign markets, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labelling, handling, distribution, importation, exportation, licensing, sale and storage of our products are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints which are beyond our control. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at all levels of government. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with all of these laws, regulations and other constraints. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and other constraints or new laws, regulations or constraints could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business. In addition, the adoption of new laws, regulations or other constraints or changes in the interpretations of such requirements may result in significant compliance costs or lead us to discontinue product sales and may have an adverse effect on the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales. In the United States, the FDA perceives any written or verbal statement used to promote or sell a product that associates an unapproved nutrient with a disease (whether written by us, the content of a testimonial endorsement or contained within a scientific publication) to be evidence of intent to sell an unapproved new drug. If any such evidence is found with respect to our products, the FDA may take adverse action against us, ranging from a warning letter necessitating cessation of use of the statement to injunctions against product sale, seizures of products promoted with the statements, and civil and criminal prosecution of our executives. Such actions could have a detrimental effect on sales. Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks may reduce revenues in future fiscal periods. We cannot ensure that our estimated reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed the estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows We may be subject to the risks of foreign exchange rate fluctuation which could result in foreign exchange losses. We may be exposed to fluctuations of the Canadian dollar against certain other currencies because we publishes our financial statements in Canadian dollars, while a portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and costs are or will be denominated in other currencies, such as the euro and the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates for currencies of the countries in which we operate may fluctuate in relation to the Canadian dollar, and such fluctuations, especially as between the Canadian dollar, U.S. dollar and the euro, may have a material adverse effect on its earnings or assets when translating foreign currency into Canadian dollars. In order to mitigate the risk, we have used, in the past, forward contracts and other derivative instruments to reduce our exposure to foreign currency risk and may or may not do so in the future. Dependent on the nature, amount and timing of foreign currency receipts and payments, we may from time-to-time enter into foreign currency contracts. Accordingly, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings solely as a result of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which include foreign currency devaluations against the Canadian dollar. We do not typically carry currency convertibility risk insurance. Market rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 We may be subject to market risk through the risk of loss of value in our portfolios resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity prices. we are required to mark to market our held-for-trading investments at the end of each reporting period. This process could result in significant write-downs of our investments over one or more reporting periods, particularly during periods of overall market instability, which could have a significant unfavourable effect on our financial position. We may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future investments which could impact our ability to realize the expected benefits from future investments and acquisitions. We will regularly review investment opportunities and as part of the review, conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in any particular transaction. Despite our efforts, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, we may not realize the intended advantages of any given investment and may not identify all of the risks relating to the investment. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from one or more investments, or do not identify all of the risks associated with a particular investment, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Merus may be subject to certain regulations that could restrict Merus’ activities and abilities to generate revenues as planned. From time-to-time, governments, government agencies and industry self- regulatory bodies in Canada, the United States, the European Union and other countries in which we will operate have adopted statutes, regulations and rulings that directly or indirectly affect the activities of our company and our future clients. These regulations could adversely impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and generate revenues as planned. Our inability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could increase the risk of an error in our financial statements. Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives due to its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is therefore subject to error, collusion, or improper override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, and although it is possible to incorporate into the financial reporting process safeguards to reduce this risk, they cannot be guaranteed to entirely eliminate it. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, then there is an increased risk of an error in our financial statements that could result in us being required to restate previously issued financial statements at a later date. Risks Relating to our Common Shares There are unexercised share purchase warrants and stock options outstanding. If these are exercised, the investor’s interest in our Common Shares will be diluted. As of November 30, 2013, there were 38,391,512 Common Shares issued. If all of the share purchase warrants and options that were issued and outstanding as of that date were to be exercised, including warrants and options that are not yet exercisable, Merus would be required to issue up to an additional 4,760,950 Common Shares, or approximately 12% of Merus’ issued and outstanding Common Shares as of November 30, 2013. In addition, if the option to convert the outstanding convertible debentures was exercised, we would be required to issue an additional 6,666,666 shares or approximately 17% of our issued and outstanding Common Shares. These issuances would substantially decrease the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. This dilution could cause the price of our Common Shares to decline and it could result in the creation of new control persons. In addition, our stockholders could suffer dilution in the net book value per share. 15 A decline in the price of the Common Shares could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our ability to continue operations. A prolonged decline in the price of the Common Shares could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our Common Shares and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Because a significant portion of our operations have been and will be financed through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of our Common Shares could be especially detrimental to our liquidity and our operations. Such reductions may force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may have a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including its ability to acquire new products and continue its current operations. If our stock price declines, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms or generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital in the future, we may not have the resources to continue our normal operations. Because we can issue additional Common Shares, holders of our Common Shares may incur immediate dilution and may experience further dilution. We are authorized to issue an unlimited number of Common Shares, of which 38,391,512 shares were issued and outstanding as of November 30, 2013 and an unlimited number of Preferred Shares, of which none were issued and outstanding as of November 30, 2013. Our board of directors has the authority to cause us to issue additional Common Shares without the consent of any of our stockholders. Consequently, the stockholders may experience more dilution in their ownership of the Common Shares in the future. Because it is unlikely that we will pay dividends in the foreseeable future, stockholders may only benefit from owning Common Shares if the value of the Common Shares appreciates. We have never paid dividends on our Common Shares and we do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance our growth. Accordingly, any potential investor who anticipates the need for current dividends from his or her investment should not purchase Common Shares. 16 