ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section lists some, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in our common stock. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in our actual or anticipated quarterly revenues and operating results have in the past, and may in the future, prevent us from meeting securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations and have in the past, and may in the future, result in a decline in our stock price. Our revenues have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. For example, in the quarters ended April 30, 2002, April 30, 2003, April 30, 2004, July 31, 2004 and April 30, 2005, our revenues declined as compared to the previous fiscal quarter, and in the quarters ended October 31, 2001, January 31, 2002, April 30, 2002 and July 31, 2002 our revenues declined as compared to the same quarterly periods in the prior fiscal year. If our revenues, operating results, earnings or future projections are below the levels expected by investors or securities analysts, our stock price is likely to decline. Moreover, even if our total revenues meet investors’ and securities analysts’ expectations, if a component of our total revenues does not meet these expectations, our stock price may decline. For example, in our quarter ended April 30, 2004, our reported license revenue was several million dollars lower than the level expected by securities analysts. Our stock price declined by approximately 22.5 percent at the close of trading on the NASDAQ National Market on 17 Table of Contents the day following our announcement of our quarterly financial results providing this information. Our stock price is also subject to the substantial volatility generally associated with Internet, software and technology stocks and may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance, such as the substantial declines in the prices of many such stocks that began in March 2000 through 2003, as well as market declines related to terrorist activities and military actions. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in our future revenues and operating results as a result of many factors, including: • difficulty predicting the size and timing of customer orders, particularly as we have become more reliant on larger transactions; • the rate of customer acceptance of our WebLogic Server 9.0, WebLogic Platform 8.1 products, WebLogic Communications Platform products, WebLogic RFID products, BEA AquaLogic products, business process management (“BPM) products, service oriented architecture (“SOA”) products and other recently introduced products or products to be introduced in the future, and any order delays caused by customer evaluations of these new products; • periodic difficult economic conditions, particularly affecting the technology industry, as well as economic uncertainties arising out of possible future terrorist activities; military and security actions in Iraq and the Middle East in general; and geopolitical instability in markets such as the Korean peninsula and other parts of Asia, all of which have increased the likelihood that customers will unexpectedly delay, cancel or reduce the size of orders, resulting in revenue shortfalls; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have an adverse impact on our international revenue, particularly in the EMEA region if the Euro were to weaken significantly against the U.S. dollar; • the performance of our international business, which accounts for approximately half of our consolidated revenues; • changes in the mix of products and services that we sell or the channels through which they are distributed; • changes in our competitors’ product offerings, marketing programs and pricing policies, and customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products and product enhancements from us or our competitors; • any increased price sensitivity by our customers, particularly in the face of periodic uneven economic conditions and increased competition including open source or free competitive software; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and initiatives, such as our WebLogic Server 9.0, WebLogic Platform 8.1 products, WebLogic Communications Platform products, WebLogic RFID products, BEA AquaLogic products and our solutions framework program, on a timely basis and whether any such new products are competitive or accepted in the market; • the lengthy sales cycle for our products, particularly with regard to WebLogic Communications Platform, WebLogic RFID products and WebLogic Platform sales which typically involve more comprehensive solutions that may require more detailed customer evaluations; • our ability to further control costs and expenses, particularly in the face of periodic difficult economic conditions; • loss of key personnel or inability to recruit and hire qualified additional or replacement key personnel; • the degree of success, if any, of our strategy to further establish and expand our relationships with distributors; • the structure, timing and integration of acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and related disruption of our current business; 18 Table of Contents • costs associated with acquisitions, including expenses charged for any impaired acquired intangible assets and goodwill; • the terms and timing of financing activities; • potential fluctuations in demand or prices of our products and services; • technological changes in computer systems and environments; • our ability to meet our customers’ service requirements; and • the seasonality of our sales, which typically significantly adversely affects our revenue in our first quarter. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast because of the timing, size and composition of our customer orders. A substantial portion of our revenues has been derived from large orders, as major customers deployed our products. License revenue contribution from transactions with license revenue greater than $1 million has ranged from approximately 20 percent to 40 percent of total license fees over the eight quarters ended January 31, 2006. In addition, in the quarters ended January 31, 2005, April 30, 2005, July 31, 2005, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006 there were 15, 18, 10, 19 and 31 product orders signed, respectively, each with a value of greater than $1 million. Increases in the dollar size of some individual license transactions increases the risk of fluctuation in future quarterly results because the unexpected loss of a small number of larger orders can create a significant revenue shortfall. For example, we believe this reliance on larger transactions adversely impacted our quarter ended April 30, 2004, where our reported license revenue was several million dollars lower than the level expected by securities analysts. If we cannot generate a sufficient number of large customer orders, turn a sufficient number of development orders into orders for large deployments or if customers delay or cancel such orders in a particular quarter, it may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, more significantly on a percentage basis, our net income or loss in that quarter. Moreover, we typically receive and fulfill most of our orders within the quarter, and a substantial portion of our orders, particularly our larger transactions, are typically received in the last month of each fiscal quarter, with a concentration of such orders in the final week of the quarter. As a result, even though we may have substantial backlog at the end of a prior quarter and positive business indicators, such as sales “pipeline” reports, about customer demand during a quarter, we may not learn of revenue shortfalls until very late in the fiscal quarter, and possibly not until the final day or days of the fiscal quarter. Not only could this significantly adversely affect our revenues, such shortfalls would substantially adversely affect our earnings because they may occur after it is too late to adjust expenses for that quarter. Moreover, because we have previously implemented significant cost cutting measures, incremental additional cost cutting measures would be particularly difficult to achieve. The risk of delayed or cancelled orders is also particularly relevant with respect to our increased dependence on large customer orders, which are more likely to be cancelled, delayed or reduced and also have a greater financial impact on our operating results. Moreover, periodic adverse economic conditions, particularly those related to the technology industry and the economic and political uncertainties arising out of the ongoing U.S. military activity in Iraq, recent and possible future terrorist activities, other potential military and security actions in the Middle East, and instability in markets such as the Korean peninsula and other parts of Asia, have increased the likelihood that customers will unexpectedly delay, cancel or reduce orders, resulting in revenue shortfalls. Any revenue shortfall below our expectations could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on our results of operations. The seasonality of our sales typically have a significant adverse effect on our revenues in our first fiscal quarter. Our first quarter revenues, particularly our license revenues, are typically lower than revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter. We believe this is because our commission plans and other sales incentives are structured for annual performance and contain bonus provisions based on annual quotas that 19 Table of Contents typically are triggered in the later quarters in a year. In addition, most of our customers begin a new fiscal year on January 1 and it is common for capital expenditures to be lower in an organization’s first quarter than in its fourth quarter. We anticipate that the negative impact of seasonality on our first quarter will continue and this is likely to occur in our first quarter of fiscal 2007 ending April 30, 2006. Moreover, because of this seasonality, even if we have a very strong fourth quarter in a particular year, the initial quarters in the next year could nevertheless still be weak on a year-over-year comparative basis, as well as on a sequential basis. This risk remains even if the amount of our deferred revenue and backlog is substantial at the close of the immediately preceding fourth quarter. This seasonality may harm our revenues and other operating results in our first quarter and possibly subsequent quarters as well, particularly if it is worse than we expect. If we do not effectively compete with new and existing competitors, our revenues and operating margins will decline. The market for application server, integration and SOA software, and related software infrastructure and specialty applications in communications and RFID products and services, is highly competitive. Our competitors are diverse and offer a variety of solutions directed at various segments of this marketplace. These competitors include IBM, which also offers operating system software and hardware as discussed below, and Oracle, which can bundle its competing products with their database and other software offerings at a discounted price. In addition, certain application vendors, enterprise application integration vendors and other companies are developing or offering application server, enterprise application integration, portal, BPM and SOA software products and related services that may compete with products that we offer. Further, software vendors typically emphasize the broad versatility of their products and, in some cases, offer complementary software that supports and performs basic infrastructure application server, integration and SOA functions. These vendors offer products that may compete with some of the functions and features of our own product offerings. Finally, internal development groups within prospective customers’ organizations may develop software and hardware systems that may substitute for those we offer. A number of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than us. Some of our competitors are also hardware vendors who bundle their own application server, integration and SOA software and related products with their computer systems and database vendors that advocate client/server networks driven by the database server. IBM is the primary hardware vendor with which we compete that offers a line of application server, integration, SOA and related software infrastructure solutions for their customers. Sun Microsystems is another hardware vendor which offers a line of application server, SOA and related software infrastructure solutions. IBM’s sale of application server, integration and SOA functionality along with its proprietary hardware systems requires us to compete with IBM, particularly with regard to its installed customer base, where IBM has certain inherent advantages due to its much greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, greater name recognition and the integration of its enterprise application server, integration and SOA functionality with its proprietary hardware and database systems. These inherent advantages allow IBM to bundle, at a discounted price, application server, integration and SOA solutions with computer hardware, software and related service sales. In addition, IBM Global Services, a division of IBM and a large provider of consulting and information technology services, can influence their service customers’ choice of software products in favor of IBM’s. In addition, these advantages allow IBM to promote their competing products by selling at a discount their mainframe operating system software to their numerous mainframe hardware customers who purchase on a bundled basis IBM application server, integration and SOA software. Due to these factors, if we do not sufficiently differentiate our products based on functionality, reliability, ease of development, interoperability with non-IBM systems, performance, total cost of ownership and return on investment and establish our products as more effective solutions to customers’ technological and economic needs, our business, operating results, and financial condition will suffer. In addition to its current products which include some application server functionality, Microsoft has announced that it intends to continue to enhance the application server, integration and SOA functionalities in its 20 Table of Contents .NET technologies. Microsoft’s .NET technologies use a proprietary programming environment that competes with the Java-based environment of our products. A widespread acceptance of Microsoft’s .NET technologies, particularly among the large and mid-sized enterprises from which most of our revenues are generated, could curtail the use of Java and therefore adversely impact the sales of our Java based products. The .NET technologies and the bundling of competing functionality in versions of Windows can require us to compete in certain areas with Microsoft, which has certain inherent advantages due to its much greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, its greater name recognition, very large developer community, its substantial installed base and the integration of its broad product line and features into a Web Services and SOA environment. We need to differentiate our products from Microsoft’s based on scalability, functionality, interoperability with Microsoft and non-Microsoft platforms, performance, total cost of ownership, return on investment, ease of development and reliability, and need to establish our products as more effective solutions to customers’ technological and economic needs. We may not be able to successfully or sufficiently differentiate our products from those offered by Microsoft, and Microsoft’s continued efforts in the application server, integration, Web Services and SOA markets, as well as their ongoing efforts to enhance and expand the .NET technology program, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of their current and prospective customers. Oracle Corporation has been particularly aggressive in making acquisitions of software companies to enhance their enterprise application offerings and database, and competitive application server, integration and SOA products and has sought relationships with third parties that are also directly competitive to our products. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Such competition could materially adversely affect our ability to sell additional software licenses and maintenance, consulting and support services on terms favorable to us. Further, competitive pressures and open source availability of functional competitive software could require us to reduce the price of our products and related services, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and any failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we cannot successfully integrate our past and future acquisitions, our revenues may decline and expenses may increase. From our inception in January 1995, we have made a substantial number of strategic acquisitions. In connection with acquisitions completed prior to January 31, 2006, we recorded approximately $563.7 million as intangible assets and goodwill, of which approximately $339.7 million had been amortized or written off as of January 31, 2006. In the third quarter of fiscal 2002, we recorded asset impairment charges totaling $80.1 million against certain acquired intangible assets and goodwill. If future events cause additional impairment of any intangible assets acquired in our past or future acquisitions, we may have to record additional charges relating to such assets sooner than we expect which would cause our profits to decline. From June 2005 to March 2006, we acquired Plumtree Software, Inc., a substantial publicly traded software company, as well as five smaller companies in targeted cash acquisitions, each of which has presented an integration challenge to our business operations. In addition, integration of acquired companies, divisions and products involves the assimilation of potentially conflicting products and operations including the maintenance of effective internal controls for the combined company, which diverts the attention of our management team and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results in future quarters. It is possible that we may not achieve any of the intended financial or strategic benefits of these transactions. While we intend to make additional acquisitions in the future, there may not be suitable companies, divisions or products available for acquisition. Our acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the risk that we will not successfully assimilate the acquired operations and products, retain key employees of the acquired operations, or execute successfully the product development strategy driving the acquisition. There are also risks relating to the diversion of our management’s attention, and difficulties and uncertainties in our ability to maintain the key business relationships that we or the acquired entities have 21 Table of Contents established. In addition, we may have product liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products. Acquisitions also expose us to the risk of claims by terminated employees, from either shareholders of the acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction. Finally, if we undertake future acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur additional debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses, utilize substantial portions of our cash, and acquire intangible assets that would result in significant future amortization expense. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. On June 29, 2001, the FASB pronounced under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“FAS 142”) that purchased goodwill should not be amortized, but rather, should be periodically reviewed for impairment. Such impairment could be caused by internal factors as well as external factors beyond our control. The FASB has further determined that at the time goodwill is considered impaired, an amount equal to the impairment loss should be charged as an operating expense in the statement of operations. The timing of such an impairment (if any) of goodwill acquired in past and future transactions is uncertain and difficult to predict. Our results of operations in periods following any such impairment could be materially adversely affected. We are required to determine whether goodwill and any assets acquired in past acquisitions have been impaired in accordance with FAS 142 and, if so, charge such impairment as an expense. In the quarter ended October 31, 2001, we took an asset impairment charge of $80.1 million related to past acquisitions. We have remaining net goodwill and net acquired intangible assets of approximately $224.0 million at January 31, 2006, so if we are required to take such additional impairment charges, the amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face numerous additional risks in connection with the integration of Plumtree into our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks associated with integration of the businesses and operations of our company and Plumtree, which we acquired on October 20, 2005, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the merger to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. For example, our ability to realize these benefits and synergies could be impacted adversely by practical or legal constraints on combining operations or implementing workforce reductions. Also, charges to earnings resulting from the purchase accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock following the merger, as we will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the merger, and, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with the merger becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In addition, we may develop new products that combine Plumtree’s products and intellectual property with our products and intellectual property. This may result in longer product development cycles, which may cause the revenue and operating income of our businesses to fluctuate and fail to meet expectations. To date, we have not completed our investigation into the challenges (technological, market-driven or otherwise) of developing and marketing these new products. We have also encountered disparities between the revenue recognition policies, product support offerings and sales force structure which have represented substantial additional challenges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to overcome these challenges, or that a market for such new products will develop after the merger. Therefore, the stand-alone results historically generated by Plumtree may not be indicative of expected results in the near term due to integration complexities, including changes in management and the timing of restructuring activities. Plumtree derived a significant portion of its software license and service revenue from government customers. We have assumed Plumtree’s business with the United States government and other domestic and international public entities, including the risks associated with such business, including the susceptibility to unpredictable governmental budgetary and policy changes. Sales to government entities can be adversely affected by budgetary cycles, changes in policy and other political events outside of our control, including the outbreak of hostilities overseas and domestic terrorism. Governments often retain the ability to cancel contracts at their convenience in times of emergency or under other circumstances. Recently, some of Plumtree’s 22 Table of Contents government customers have experienced budgetary constraints due to decreased federal funding to state and local governments. Additionally, the government may require special intellectual property rights and other license terms generally more favorable to the customer than those typical in non-government contracts. These requirements involve more licensing cost and increased contract risk for us. The government procurement process in general can be long and complex and being a government vendor subjects us to additional regulations. In addition, we have conducted an initial internal investigation into Plumtree’s compliance with, and we are subject to an ongoing review in relation to, Plumtree’s contract with the U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”) which may adversely impact our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The U.S. government often retains the right to audit its vendors for compliance. In February 2005, Plumtree became aware that in connection with certain sales made under its GSA contract, Plumtree may not have complied fully with the terms of the “Price Reductions” clause of such contract. As a result, Plumtree voluntarily offered the GSA a temporary price reduction. In response, Plumtree was informed that the matter would be considered further within the GSA. Plumtree commenced an internal investigation into this matter in the second quarter of 2005 and, with the assistance of special legal counsel and forensic accountants, concluded that a damage payment or future discounts off of the GSA price list might be due to the GSA under the GSA contract pursuant to the “Price Reductions” clause. In the quarter ended June 30, 2005, Plumtree established a $1.5 million contingent contract reserve for the potential damage payment or future discounts off the GSA price list related to the GSA contract matter. BEA has reviewed this analysis and based on our assessment we have recorded $1.5 million as the fair value of the contingency as of October 20, 2005. In January, 2006 the Company completed its self-audit, which was consistent with the original assessment, and reported these results to the GSA. The GSA has indicated that it would like the company to perform an additional review of the period from March 31, 2005 through June 30, 2005. The Company is currently assessing the GSA’s desire for this additional period, however as of January 31, 2006, the Company had not commenced such additional review and did not record any additional contingency accruals related to this issue. The final amount of the potential contract damages or future discounts off of the GSA price list is subject to the outcome of final resolution with the GSA. It is possible that the final settlement could exceed the reserve and have a material impact on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. It is also possible that the GSA may elect to take other action, such as an audit of Plumtree’s compliance with the terms of the applicable GSA contract. Any such audit could prove costly and may distract our management. In addition, as a result of such audit, the U.S. government may require a further discount on future orders under the GSA contract, or seek other remedies. Any such action may adversely affect our financial position, revenue, liquidity and results of operations. As a result of the merger we have assumed the Plumtree GSA contract matters and are subject to the associated liabilities and risks. Two securities class action lawsuits were filed stemming from the merger between us and Plumtree claiming an unspecified amount of damages. One of the actions, filed in California, sought an injunction against completion of the merger. That motion was denied and the case has now been stayed. The other action, filed in Delaware, has been inactive since the merger closed; there can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to achieve a favorable resolution. An unfavorable resolution of the pending litigation could result in the payment of substantial damages which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the merger, we have assumed any liabilities of Plumtree resulting from the litigation. We have a high debt balance and a significant portion of that high debt balance comes due in December 2006, which could result in substantial cash outflow, changes to our debt to equity ratio and constrict our liquidity. At January 31, 2006, we had approximately $465 million of short-term convertible notes outstanding and long term debt of $215.0 million. The $465 million of convertible notes come due in December 2006 (the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007), and consequently, these notes have been reclassified to a current liability as of January 31, 2006. As a result, our working capital has been significantly impacted. The short-term convertible notes and long term debt have substantial principal and interest payment obligations. The degree to which we are leveraged could significantly harm our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other 23 Table of Contents purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We will require substantial amounts of cash to fund scheduled payments of principal and interest on the convertible notes, the notes payable, and other indebtedness, future capital expenditures, payments on our operating leases and any increased working capital requirements. As of April 12, 2006, we have repurchased and retired an additional $210 million of the short-term convertible notes and consequently the outstanding balance is approximately $255.3 million. To the extent our stock price does not exceed $34.65 per share for a requisite number of trading days before December 2006 to permit us to effectively force the conversion of the convertible notes, we will be required to pay the remaining $255.3 million to redeem the remaining outstanding convertible notes in December 2006. Management may also decide to repurchase a portion of the outstanding bonds prior to maturity, which will impact liquidity. If we are unable to meet our cash requirements out of cash flow from operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative financing. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, to make future acquisitions, to absorb adverse operating results or to fund capital expenditures or increased working capital requirements would be significantly reduced. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay the convertible notes and the notes payable at maturity, we could attempt to refinance these debt obligations, however, no assurance can be given that such a refinancing would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including developments in the Internet, changes in the software or technology industry, general market and economic conditions, further terrorist activities, military actions in Iraq and the Middle East in general, geopolitical instability on the Korean peninsula and other parts of Asia, and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or our competitors’ operating performance. In addition, BEA and many other companies in the Internet, technology and emerging growth sectors have experienced wide fluctuations in their stock prices, including recent rapid rises and declines that often have not been directly related to the operating performance of such companies. Such factors and fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our fluctuating stock price also carries other risks, including the increased risk of shareholder litigation. For example, following the drop of our stock price in May 2004, BEA and a number of our officers and directors were named in shareholder class action and derivative lawsuits. Although these lawsuits were dismissed, any similar suits in the future could divert management’s attention from our business and have an adverse effect on our financial results and operations. The lengthy sales cycle for our products makes our revenues susceptible to substantial fluctuations. Many of our customers use our products to implement large, sophisticated applications that are critical to their business, and their purchases are often part of their implementation of a Web-based computing environment or SOA. Customers evaluating our software products face complex decisions regarding alternative approaches to the integration of enterprise applications, competitive product offerings, implementation of SOA rapidly changing software technologies and standards and limited internal resources due to other information systems requirements. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle for our products is lengthy and is subject to delays or cancellation over which we have little or no control. We have experienced an increase in the number of million and multimillion dollar license transactions. For example, in the quarters ended January 31, 2005, April 30, 2005, July 31, 2005, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006, there were 15, 18, 10, 19 and 31 product orders signed, respectively, each with a value at greater than $1 million. Some of our transactions are significantly larger than $1 million, such as in our quarter ended July 31, 2003, when we had a single transaction with a value of over $10 million. In some cases, the larger size of the transactions has resulted in more extended customer evaluation and procurement processes, which in turn have lengthened the overall sales cycle for our products. Periodic economic difficulties in our key markets has also contributed to increasing the length of our sales cycle. Finally, the 24 Table of Contents introduction of WebLogic Platform 8.1 and 9.0, AquaLogic and other products and implementation of our products for SOA have contributed to a longer sales cycle due to the fact that it offers a more comprehensive solution that may require more detailed customer evaluations. Delays or failures to complete large orders and sales in a particular quarter could significantly reduce revenue that quarter, as well as subsequent quarters over which revenue for the sale would likely be recognized. If our WebLogic Platform 8.1, WebLogic Server 9.0, WebLogic Communications Platform, BEA AquaLogic and other recently introduced products do not achieve significant market acceptance, or market acceptance is delayed, our revenues will be substantially adversely affected. In January 2005 we released the first product of our WebLogic Communications Platform. In June 2005, we introduced the BEA AquaLogic group of products and enhanced them with products from the Plumtree acquisition for our SOA offerings and in August 2005, we introduced WebLogic Server 9.0. We have invested substantial resources to develop, acquire and market these products, and anticipate that this will continue. If these products and our other products currently in development do not achieve substantial market acceptance among new and existing customers, due to factors such as any technological problems, competition, pricing, sales execution or market shifts, it will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and other operating results. For example, we believe the rate of acceptance of, and customer transition to, WebLogic Platform 8.1 after introduction were contributing factors to our reported license revenue for our quarter ended July 31, 2004 being several million dollars lower than the level expected by securities analysts. Moreover, because our new products generally offer broader solutions and other improvements over our prior products, potential customers may take additional time to evaluate their purchases, which can delay customer acceptance of our new products. If these delays continue or worsen, it will adversely affect our revenues and other operating results. Our international operations expose us to greater management, collections, currency, export licensing, intellectual property, tax, regulatory and other risks. Revenues from markets outside of the Americas accounted for 48.1 percent, 50.3 percent, and 45.9 percent of our total revenues for the years ended January 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We sell our products and services through a network of branches and subsidiaries located in 36 countries worldwide. In addition, we also market our products through distributors. We believe that our success depends upon continued expansion of our international operations. Our international business is subject to a number of risks, including greater difficulties in maintaining and enforcing U.S. accounting and public reporting standards, greater difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel sufficiently experienced in U.S. accounting and public reporting standards, unexpected changes in regulatory practices and tariffs, longer collection cycles, seasonality, potential changes in export licensing and tax laws, and greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights. Also, the impact of fluctuating exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business can significantly impact our revenues. For example, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could have an unexpected adverse impact on our international revenue. This is particularly relevant with regards to our sales generated in the EMEA region where the U.S. dollar has recently been exceptionally weak relative to European currencies. The EMEA region accounted for 33.1 percent of our revenue for the year ended January 31, 2006, and if the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the European currencies were to significantly increase, it would have an unexpected adverse impact on our revenues, profits and other operating results. Also, we are periodically subject to tax audits by government agencies in foreign jurisdictions. To date, the outcomes of these audits have not had a material impact on us. It is possible, however, that future audits could result in significant assessments against us or our employees for transfer taxes, payroll taxes, income taxes, or other taxes as well as related employee and other claims which could adversely effect our operating results. General economic and political conditions in these foreign markets, including the military action in the Middle East, geopolitical instabilities on the Korean peninsula and other parts of Asia and a backlash against U.S. based companies may also impact our international revenues, as such conditions may cause decreases in demand or impact our ability to collect payment from our customers. There can be no assurances that these factors and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international revenues and consequently on our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our revenues are derived primarily from a single group of similar and related products and related services, and a decline in demand or prices for these products or services could substantially adversely affect our operating results. We currently derive the majority of our license and service revenues from BEA WebLogic Server products, Tuxedo and from related products and services. We expect these products and services to continue to account for the majority of our revenues in the immediate future. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for BEA WebLogic Server products, Tuxedo or related services, such as a periodic difficult economic conditions, future terrorist activities or military actions, any decline in overall market demand, competition, product performance or technological change, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In particular, with regard to Tuxedo, we have recently experienced a decline in the percentage of our license revenue generated by Tuxedo, as well as a decline in the absolute dollar amount of revenue generated by Tuxedo. If this trend were to continue or worsen, it would have an adverse impact on our revenue, profit and other operating results. Our future growth is expected to be achieved through the implementation and introduction of our new product initiatives in AquaLogic, BPM and SOA and in our WebLogic Communications Platform and WebLogic RFID. A substantial part of our AquaLogic and BPM products were derived from the Plumtree acquisition and our SOAs offerings depend on success of these products. There are substantial risks that we will be able to integrate these acquired products and organizations in an effective or timely way to provide products that will be acceptable or successful in the market. All of these new product initiatives have substantial, entrenched competitors with greater resources and experience in these product areas. There can be no assurances that all or any of these new products will be successful and contribute to profitability or growth. Changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue and profits. Although we use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in larger license transactions. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of revenue on the license. While we believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants continues to issue implementation guidelines for these standards and the accounting profession continues to discuss a wide range of potential interpretations. Additional implementation guidelines, and changes in interpretations of such guidelines, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices that could cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or to recognize lower revenue and profits. Moreover, policies, guidelines and interpretations related to revenue recognition, accounting for acquisitions, income taxes, facilities consolidation charges, allowances for doubtful accounts and other financial reporting matters require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. To the extent that management’s judgment is incorrect, it could result in an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. Some of these matters are also among topics currently under re-examination by accounting standard setters and regulators. These standard setters and regulators could promulgate interpretations and guidance that could result in material and potentially adverse changes to our accounting policies. The FASB has adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123R (“FAS 123R”), Share-Based Payment, replacing FAS 123 which eliminates the ability to account for compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and requires that such transactions be accounted for using the fair value based method. Accordingly, we will be required to expense 26 Table of Contents stock options granted in fiscal periods commencing February 1, 2006. When we record an expense for our stock- based compensation plans using the fair value method, we will have significant compensation charges. For example, for the years ended January 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, had we accounted for stock-based compensation plans under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 123, as amended by FASB Statement No. 148, diluted earnings per share would have been reduced by $0.17, $0.30 and $0.39 per share, respectively. We could report a net loss again. We first reported significant net income under generally accepted accounting principles for the quarter ended July 31, 2000. However, despite this, we subsequently reported a net loss for the quarter ended October 31, 2001. This was due in part to asset impairment charges of $80.1 million related to prior acquisitions. We also implemented a planned consolidation of various facilities and a planned reduction in work force of approximately 10 percent in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year ended January 31, 2002 and took charges of $20.7 million and $19.8 million, respectively, related to these actions. Because of such factors and our operating history and on-going expenses associated with our prior acquisitions, the possibility of future impairment charges and the possibility of future charges related to any future facilities consolidation or work force reductions, we may again experience net losses in future periods. In addition, when we begin to expense stock option grants under FAS 123R for fiscal periods commencing after January 31, 2006, we will have significant accounting charges that will make it substantially more likely we could experience net losses. If we are required to remit significant payroll taxes, it will have an adverse impact on our future financial results. When our employees exercise certain stock options, we are subject to employer payroll taxes on the difference between the price of our common stock on the date of exercise and the exercise price. These payroll taxes are determined by the tax rates in effect in the employee’s taxing jurisdiction and are treated as an expense in the period in which the exercise occurs. During a particular period, these payroll taxes could be material, in particular if an increase in our stock price causes a significant number of employees to exercise their options. However, because we are unable to predict our stock price, the number of exercises, or the country of exercise during any particular period, we cannot predict the amount, if any, of employer payroll tax expense that will be recorded in a future period or the impact on our future financial results. Stock price increases make it more likely that option holders will exercise their options and, accordingly, that we would incur higher payroll taxes. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual management assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm addressing this assessment. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. 27 Table of Contents Any failure to maintain on-going sales through distribution channels could result in lower revenues. To date, we have sold our products principally through our direct sales force, as well as through indirect sales channels, such as computer hardware companies, packaged application software developers, independent software vendors (“ISVs”), systems integrators (“SIs”) and independent consultants, independent software tool vendors and distributors. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on our success in maintaining existing relationships and further establishing and expanding relationships with distributors, ISVs, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and SIs. In particular, we have an ongoing initiative to further establish and expand relationships with our distributors through these sales channels, especially ISVs and SIs. A significant part of this initiative is to recruit and train a large number of consultants employed by SIs and induce these SIs to more broadly use our products in their consulting practices, as well as to embed our technology in products that our ISV customers offer. We intend to continue this initiative and to seek distribution arrangements with additional ISVs to embed our WebLogic Server and other products in their products. It is possible that we will not be able to successfully expand our distribution channels, secure agreements with additional SIs and ISVs on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and otherwise adequately continue to develop and maintain our relationships with indirect sales channels. Moreover, even if we succeed in these endeavors, it still may not increase our revenues. In particular, we need to carefully monitor the development and scope of our indirect sales channels and create appropriate pricing, sales force compensation and other distribution parameters to help ensure these indirect channels do not conflict with or curtail our direct sales. If we invest resources in these types of expansion and our overall revenues do not correspondingly increase, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we already rely on formal and informal relationships with a number of consulting and systems integration firms to enhance our sales, support, service and marketing efforts, particularly with respect to implementation and support of our products as well as lead generation and assistance in the sales process. We will need to expand our relationships with third parties in order to support license revenue growth. Many such firms have similar, and often more established, relationships with our principal competitors. It is possible that these and other third parties will not provide the level and quality of service required to meet the needs of our customers, or that we will not be able to maintain an effective, long-term relationship with these third parties. If the markets for application servers, application platform, application integration, portal, BPM, SOA and related application infrastructure software and Web services decline or do not grow as quickly as we expect, our revenues will be harmed. We sell our products and services in the application server, application platform, application integration, portal, BPM, SOA and related application infrastructure markets. These markets are characterized by continuing technological developments, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. Our success is dependent in large part on acceptance of our products by large customers with substantial legacy mainframe systems, customers establishing or building out their presence on the Web for commerce, and developers of Web-based commerce applications and SOA. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on the continued growth in the use of the Web to run software applications and continued growth in the number of companies extending their mainframe-based, mission-critical applications to an enterprise-wide distributed computing environment and to the Internet through the use of application server and integration technology and SOA. The markets for application server, application platform, portal, application integration, web services, BPM and SOA and related services and technologies may not grow and could decline. Even if they do grow, they may grow more slowly than we anticipate, particularly in view of periodic economic difficulties affecting the technology sector in the United States, Asia and Europe. If these markets fail to grow, grow more slowly than we currently anticipate, or decline, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Third parties could assert that our software products and services infringe their intellectual property rights, which could expose us to increased costs and litigation. We have been and continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including claims currently being asserted that our products infringe certain patent rights. It is possible that third parties, including competitors, technology partners, and other technology companies, could successfully claim that our current or future products, whether developed internally or acquired, infringe their rights, including their trade secret, copyright and patent rights. These types of claims, with or without merit, can cause costly litigation that absorbs significant management time, as well as impede our sales efforts due to any uncertainty as to the outcome, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. These types of claims, with or without merit, could also cause us to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts, cease offering of any subject technology or products altogether, require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, compel us to license software under unfavorable terms, and damage our ability to sell products due to any uncertainty generated as to intellectual property ownership. If required, we may not be able to obtain such royalty or license agreements, or obtain them on terms acceptable to us, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if we are unable to ship key products. Because the technological, market and industry conditions in our business can change very rapidly, if we do not successfully adapt our products to these changes, our revenue and profits will be harmed. The market for our products and services is highly fragmented, competitive with alternative computing architectures, and characterized by continuing technological developments, evolving and competing industry standards, and changing customer requirements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies, such as SOA, the emergence of new industry standards, or changes in customer requirements could result in a decline in the markets for our existing products or render them obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our success depends upon our ability to timely and effectively enhance existing products (such as our WebLogic Server products and Web Services features), respond to changing customer requirements, and develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and initiatives (such as our BEA AquaLogic, WebLogic Platform 8.1, WebLogic Communications Platform, WebLogic Integration 8.1, and WebLogic Sever 9.0 products and our SOA and solutions frameworks initiatives) that keep pace with technological and market developments and emerging industry standards. In addition, the widespread continued adoption of Java technologies and standards is critical to driving sales of our products because most operate in a Java-based environment. The widespread acceptance of Microsoft’s .NET technologies, which competes with Java-based environments and technologies, could curtail the use of Java. A decline in the ability or willingness of Sun Microsystems, Inc., the creator and licensor of a substantial portion of the basic technologies and standards comprising Java, to devote resources to promote and facilitate the adoption and further development of Java technologies and standards, as well as to make these Java technologies and standards available on sufficiently favorable terms, could also curtail the use of Java by the software industry, including us. If the rate of adoption of Java technologies and standards were to slow or decline, and we were unable to successfully adapt our products to or introduce products for other standards and technologies, such as Microsoft .Net, it would adversely affect the sales of our products and services. It is possible that our products will not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace and that we will not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our existing products or products incorporating new technology on a timely basis. Failure to develop, acquire and introduce new products, or enhancements to existing products, in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or lack of customer acceptance of our products, will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our success is increasingly dependent on our strategic partners’ ability to successfully develop and integrate their software with the BEA products with which it interoperates or is bundled, integrated or marketed. If their software performs poorly, contains errors or defects or is otherwise unreliable, or does not provide the features and benefits expected or required, it could lower the demand for our solutions and our products and services, result in negative publicity or loss of our reputation, and adversely affect our revenues and other operating results. 29 Table of Contents If our products contain software defects, it could harm our revenues and expose us to litigation. The software products we offer are internally complex and, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects, especially when we first introduce them. We may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects or errors. Any defects or errors could also cause damage to our reputation and result in loss of revenues, product returns or order cancellations, or lack of market acceptance of our products. Accordingly, any defects or errors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks are particularly acute with regard to major new product releases, such as WebLogic Server 9.0 which was introduced in August 2005, our WebLogic Communication Platform which was introduced in February 2005 and our BEA AquaLogic products which were introduced in June 2005. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, sale and support of our products entails the risk of such claims, which could be substantial in light of our customers’ use of such products in mission-critical applications. If a claimant brings a product liability claim against us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products interoperate with many parts of complicated computer systems, such as mainframes, servers, personal computers, application software, databases, operating systems and data transformation software. Failure of any one of these parts could cause all or large parts of computer systems to fail. In such circumstances, it may be difficult to determine which part failed, and it is likely that customers will bring a lawsuit against several suppliers. Even if our software is not at fault, we could suffer material expense and material diversion of management time in defending any such lawsuits. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may use our technology and trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenues and increase our costs. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. It is possible that other companies could successfully challenge the validity or scope of our patents and that our patents may not provide a competitive advantage to us. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors and corporate partners and into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. In particular, we have, in the past, provided certain hardware OEMs with access to our source code, and any unauthorized publication or proliferation of our source code could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. It is difficult for us to police unauthorized use of our products, and although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy is a persistent problem. Effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. The protection of our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our competitors could independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents and other intellectual property rights that we hold. If we are unable to manage growth, our business will suffer. We have experienced substantial growth since our inception in 1995. Overall, we have increased the number of our employees from 120 employees in three offices in the United States at January 31, 1996 to approximately 3,878 employees in 78 offices in 36 countries at January 31, 2006. Our ability to manage our staff and growth effectively requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial, disclosure and management controls, 30 Table of Contents reporting systems and procedures, and information technology infrastructure, particularly in light of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. In this regard, we are continuing to update our management information systems to integrate financial and other reporting among our multiple domestic and foreign offices. In addition, we may continue to increase our staff worldwide and continue to improve the financial reporting and controls for our global operations. We are also continuing to develop and roll out information technology initiatives. It is possible that we will not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information, control systems, reporting systems and information technology infrastructure in an efficient or timely manner and that, during the course of this implementation, we could discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls, as well as past errors resulting there from. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If we lose key personnel or cannot hire enough qualified personnel, it will adversely affect our ability to manage our business, develop, acquire new products and increase revenue. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Alfred S. Chuang, other key members of management and other key technical employees. Competition for these types of employees is intense, and it is possible that we will not be able to retain our key employees and that we will not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining qualified candidates in the future. In addition, as we seek to expand our global organization, the hiring of qualified sales, technical and support personnel has been, and will continue to be, difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals. Failure to attract, assimilate and retain key personnel, and to promptly replace key members of management who have resigned, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Stock options remain an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program following the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R). Our employees are critical to our ability to develop and design software that advances our technology, increase our sales goals and provide support to customers. Recent shareholder proposals that were approved at our annual shareholder meeting may result in difficulty retaining directors and may encourage potential hostile acquirers of the Company which maybe significantly disruptive to our Board, management and operations. At our most recent annual stockholder meeting, a stockholder proposal to amend our corporate governance documents to provide that director nominees shall be elected by the affirmative vote of the majority of shares issued and outstanding of stockholders and a stockholder proposal to take the necessary steps to declassify the Board of Directors and establish annual elections of directors, whereby all directors would be elected annually, instead of for a three-year period by classes, were approved. If our Board of Directors takes steps to implement these proposals, they may result in difficulty in retaining directors and difficulty in electing a full board and may encourage potential hostile acquirers of BEA which may or may not be significantly disruptive to our Board, management and operations. We have adopted a preferred stock rights plan which has anti-takeover effects. We have implemented a preferred stock rights plan. The plan has the anti-takeover effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of the plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. 31 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes is based on jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. It is possible that these positions may be challenged which may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. We could incur substantial charges to our consolidated statement of operations if we were to commit to a plan to sell and take related actions with regard to the 40-acre parcel of land in San Jose, California that is recorded on our balance sheet. We purchased a 40-acre parcel of land adjacent to our current corporate headquarters in San Jose (the “San Jose land”) to construct additional corporate offices and research and development facilities; however, we have suspended our construction initiatives. The San Jose land is treated as a held and used asset. If management were to commit to a plan to sell the San Jose land, the plan was put in motion and the sale of the San Jose land was probable, the San Jose land may then meet the criteria to be treated as a “held for sale” asset. If the San Jose land’s fair market value at that time was less than the carrying value of $306.6 million, we would have to write-down the carrying value of the San Jose land, which could result in substantial charges to our consolidated statement of operations of up to the carrying value of $306.6 million. We will assess the San Jose land for impairment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“FAS 144”), at least annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the value of the San Jose land may be permanently impaired. In accordance with FAS 144, if we determine that one or more impairment indicators are present, indicating the carrying amount may not be recoverable, the carrying amount of the asset would be compared to net future undiscounted cash flows that the asset, or the relevant asset grouping, is expected to generate. If the carrying amount of the asset is greater than the net future undiscounted cash flows that the asset is expected to generate, the fair value would be compared to the carrying value of the asset. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss would be recognized. The impairment loss would be the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. To date, no impairment losses on the land have been recorded under FAS 144, however there can be no assurance that we will not be required to record a substantial impairment charge related to the San Jose land of up to $306.6 million if events or circumstances change and we determine that the value of the San Jose land is impaired under FAS 144. The ongoing U.S. military activity in Iraq and any terrorist activities could adversely affect our revenues and operations. The U.S. military activity in Iraq, terrorist activities and related military and security operations have in the past disrupted economic activity throughout the United States and much of the world. This significantly adversely impacted our operations and our ability to generate revenues in the past and may also again in the future. An unfavorable course of events in the future related to the ongoing U.S. military activity in Iraq; any other military or security operations, particularly with regard to the Middle East; any future terrorist activities; or the geopolitical tension on the Korean peninsula could have a similar or worse effect on our operating results, particularly if such attacks or operations occur in the last month or weeks of our fiscal quarter or are significant enough to further weaken the U.S. or global economy. In particular, such activities and operations could result in reductions in information technology spending, order deferrals, and reductions or cancellations of customer orders for our products and services. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 