Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors That May Impact Future Results In addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors should be carefully considered by shareholders of and potential investors in the Company. Negative worldwide economic conditions could result in a decrease in our net sales and an increase in our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, many of our customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and services. If the negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit, product orders in these channels may decrease which could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. Our results of operations would be further adversely affected if we were to experience lower than anticipated order levels, cancellations of orders in backlog, postponement of customer deliveries, or pricing pressure as a result of this prolonged slowdown. Any negative effect on our earnings may affect our borrowing availability and potentially result in noncompliance with the restrictive covenants of our credit agreement. In addition, the current negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand, which could result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, or materials used in our products, that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. Furthermore, we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk by obtaining deposits and/or letters of credit on certain of our sales arrangements. We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not secured fails or is otherwise unable to pay us. A significant loss in collections on our accounts receivable would have a negative impact on our financial results. 11 Our sales to data storage and HB-LED manufacturers are highly dependent on these manufacturers' sales for consumer electronics applications, which can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors, which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. The demand for hard disk drives and HB-LEDs is highly dependent on sales of consumer electronics, such as computers, digital video recorders, camcorders, MP3/4 players, cell phones and flat panel televisions. Manufactures of hard disk drives and HB-LEDs are among our largest customers and have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues for the past several years. However, spending on consumer electronics has deteriorated significantly and may continue to deteriorate in many countries and regions, including the United States, due to the poor global economic conditions. For example, factors that could influence the levels of spending on consumer electronic products include consumer confidence, access to credit, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our customers' products and, in turn, on our customers' demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the demand for some of our customers' products can be even more volatile and unpredictable due to the possibility of competing technologies, such as flash memory as an alternative to hard disk drives. Flash memory has come down in cost while increasing in capacity, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from the hard disk drives made by our customers to alternative storage technologies. Unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our customers' products or rapid shifts in demand from our customers' products to alternative technologies could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with entering the emerging solar industry. An increasing strategic focus for Veeco is to supply equipment to the solar industry. In addition to the other risk factors described herein, the solar industry is characterized by other specific risks, including: •changes in demand for solar photovoltaic ("PV") products arising from, among other things, the cost and performance of solar PV technology compared to other energy sources, such as oil, coal, wind, hydroelectric and nuclear; •the adequacy of or changes in government energy policies, including the availability and amount of government subsidies or incentives for solar power; •whether thin film solar technologies, in particular Copper Indium Gallium Selenide ("CIGS") technology, will be broadly adopted as a viable solar technology; and •customers' and end-users' access to affordable financial capital. If we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from these and other changes occurring in the solar industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, solar is a relatively new market for us and poses the following additional challenges: •the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise in this new area; •new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some with limited operating histories, uncertain and/or limited funding and/or evolving business models; •different customer service requirements; 12 •new and/or different competitors with potentially more financial or other resources and industry experience; and •third parties' intellectual property rights. If we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from its entry into the solar market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to take additional impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets or definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets. We are required to assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually for impairment, or on an interim basis whenever events occur or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in the overall industry, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We are also required to test our definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, for recoverability and impairment whenever there are indicators of impairment, such as an adverse change in business climate. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the economic downturn became more significant and wide ranging as credit availability tightened and overall business and economic conditions deteriorated. It became apparent that the revenue, profitability, growth and other assumptions that we used in our fair value determination at October 1, 2008 (our annual measurement date), required revisions. Additionally, we realized a significant decline in our market capitalization which resulted in the carrying value of our net assets exceeding our market capitalization. Given these factors, we were required to perform an interim goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment assessment as of December 31, 2008. In addition, due to the presence of such impairment indicators, we performed an analysis as of December 31, 2008 of our definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets. Based on these analyses, we incurred an asset impairment charge of $73.0 million consisting of $52.3 million related to goodwill, $5.0 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets, $14.6 million related to definite-lived intangible assets and $1.1 million in property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2008, we had $59.2 million of goodwill and $103.3 million of intangible and long-lived assets. As part of our long-term strategy, we may pursue future acquisitions of other companies or assets which could potentially increase our goodwill and intangible and long-lived assets. Further adverse changes in business conditions could materially impact our estimates of future operations and result in additional impairment charges to these assets. If our goodwill or intangible and long-lived assets were to become further impaired, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any failure by us to execute our planned cost reductions successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. We have undertaken restructuring plans to bring operational expenses to appropriate levels for our business, including consolidation of business units, reduction in manufacturing facilities and significant personnel reductions. We may have further workforce reductions or rebalancing actions in the future. The reduction of personnel and consolidation of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service, such as a decrease in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. We cannot be certain that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations. 13 The cyclicality of the industries we serve directly affects our business. Our business depends in large part upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers in the HB-LED, solar, data storage, and semiconductor markets, as well as customers in the scientific research and industrial market. We are subject to the business cycles of these industries, the timing, length, and volatility of which are difficult to predict. These industries have historically been highly cyclical, have experienced significant economic downturns in the last decade and have suffered significant adverse consequences in the current economic downturn. As a capital equipment provider, our revenues depend in large part on the spending patterns of these customers, who often delay expenditures or cancel or reschedule orders in reaction to variations in their businesses or general economic conditions. In downturns, we must be able to quickly and effectively align our costs with prevailing market conditions, as well as motivate and retain key employees. However, because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to revenue shortfalls is limited. A downturn in one or more of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. During periods of rapid growth, we must be able to acquire and/or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, and attract, hire, assimilate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. We cannot give assurances that our net sales and operating results will not be adversely affected if our customers experience economic downturns or slowdowns in their businesses. We operate in industries characterized by rapid technological change. The HB-LED, solar, data storage, semiconductor, and scientific research and industrial industries are subject to rapid technological change. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to enhance existing products and develop and manufacture new products in a timely and cost effective manner and to accurately predict technology transitions. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, we must anticipate the future demand for products in selecting which development programs to fund and pursue. Our financial results for 2009 will depend to a great extent on the successful introduction of several new products, many of which require achieving increasingly stringent technical specifications. The current economic downturn has slowed the rate of investment in and adoption of new technologies, which may make it more difficult for us to be successful in the introduction of new products and technologies. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing, and marketing new products or new technologies or in enhancing existing products. We face significant competition. We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Many of our competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. New product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower margins. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. We depend on a limited number of customers that operate in highly concentrated industries. Our customer base is and has been highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of our net sales, which may lead customers to demand pricing and other terms less favorable to us. Based on net sales, Seagate Technology, Inc. is our largest customer, accounting for 17%, 10%, and 18% of our total net sales in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. 14 If a principal customer discontinues its relationship with us or suffers economic setbacks, such as those currently being experienced by our data storage and semiconductor customers, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales in the future will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers. We cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. In addition, because a relatively small number of large manufacturers, many of whom are our customers, dominate the industries in which they operate, it may be especially difficult for us to replace these customers if we lose their business. A substantial portion of orders in our backlog are orders from our principal customers. In addition, a substantial investment is required by customers to install and integrate capital equipment into a production line. As a result, once a manufacturer has selected a particular vendor's capital equipment, we believe that the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for the specific production line application and frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendor. Accordingly, if a customer selects a competitor's product over ours for technical superiority or other reasons, we could experience difficulty selling to that customer for a significant period of time. Furthermore, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales and we are exposed to competitive price pressure on each new order we attempt to obtain. Our failure to obtain new sales orders from new or existing customers would have a negative impact on our results of operations. The timing of our orders, shipments, and revenue recognition may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. We derive a substantial portion of our net sales in any fiscal period from the sale of a relatively small number of high-priced systems. As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue for a single transaction could have a material effect on our sales and operating results for a particular fiscal period. As is typical in our industry, orders, shipments, and customer acceptances often occur during the last few weeks of a quarter. As a result, delay of only a week or two can often shift the related booking or net sales into the next quarter, which could adversely affect our reported results for the prior quarter. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect this trend to continue. If our orders, shipments, net sales or operating results in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our stock price may be adversely affected. Changes in our product mix may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. Certain of our products have historically had lower gross margins than other products. We expect this trend to continue. If a greater portion of our overall business in the future comes from products operating at lower gross margins, then our overall gross margins will decline. This could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation or modification and such cancellation could result in decreased sales and increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. Customer purchase orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer, generally with limited or no penalties. Often, we have incurred expenses prior to such cancellation without adequate monetary compensation. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we experienced net backlog adjustments of approximately $8.0 million, consisting of $18.7 million for order cancellations, primarily from Asia Pacific MOCVD customers, and $2.0 million of adjustments related to foreign currency translation, partially offset by $12.7 million dollars of backlog acquired in the Mill Lane acquisition in the second quarter of 2008. With the current economic downturn, we may experience an increased occurrence of cancellations and/or reschedulings. 15 We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends and other factors including the consideration of the amount of backlog we have on hand at any particular point in time. If our backlog is canceled or modified, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory is overvalued, we will be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charges could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable. Historically, we have experienced long and unpredictable sales cycles (the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the time when we recognize revenue from that customer). Our sales cycle can range up to twelve months. The timing of an order often depends on the capital expenditure budget cycle of our customers, which is completely out of our control. In addition, the time it takes us to build a product to customer specifications (the "build cycle") typically ranges from one to six months, followed in certain cases by a period of customer acceptance during which the customer evaluates the performance of the system and may potentially reject the system. With the uncertainty and limited visibility related to the current economic downturn, many customers are reluctant to place orders for delivery in the future. Moreover, as a result of the build cycle and evaluation periods, the period between a customer's initial purchase decision and revenue recognition on an order often varies widely, and variations in length of this period can cause further fluctuations in our operating results. As a result of our lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses and selling and general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products. We may never generate the anticipated revenues if a customer cancels or changes plans. Variations in the length of our sales cycle could also cause our net sales and, therefore, our cash flow and net income to fluctuate widely from period to period. The failure to successfully implement outsourcing activities and other operational initiatives could adversely affect results of operations. To better align our costs with market conditions, increase the percentage of variable costs relative to total costs and to increase productivity and operational efficiency, we have outsourced, and plan to increase the outsourcing of, certain functions to third parties, including the manufacture of all or substantially all of the new MOCVD systems and certain data storage process equipment systems. We expect to increase our outsourced manufacturing as we introduce new products in these areas. Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Although we attempt to select reputable providers, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect. In addition, the expanded role of third party providers has required and will continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and adopt new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers in order to realize operational efficiencies, assure quality, and protect our intellectual property. If we do not timely and effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy or if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we may not realize gross margin or productivity improvements and we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, manufacturing interruptions or delays, inefficiencies in the structure and/or operation of our supply chain, loss of intellectual property rights, quality issues, increased product time-to-market and/or inefficient allocation of human resources, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect our ability to meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Our business depends on our ability to supply equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of our customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers located in countries other than the United States. We may experience significant interruptions of our manufacturing operations, delays in our ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of: •the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; •volatility in the availability and cost of materials; •difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export approvals; •information technology or infrastructure failures; •natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms); or •other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war) could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations. In addition, our need to rapidly increase our business and manufacturing capacity to meet unanticipated increases in demand may exacerbate any interruptions in our manufacturing operations and supply chain and the associated effect on our working capital. Moreover, if actual demand for our products is different than expected, we may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. The volatility of demand for capital equipment increases capital, technical and other risks for companies in the supply chain. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers. Failure of the suppliers of critical parts, components, and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business. We generally do not have guaranteed supply or pricing arrangements with our suppliers. As a result, we risk increased cost of materials and difficulty in procuring the parts we need to fill customer orders. We currently use numerous suppliers; however, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Failure of any of these suppliers to perform in a timely or quality manner could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. At present, we rely primarily on two suppliers for the majority of the manufacturing of certain MOCVD and data storage process equipment systems. The failure of these suppliers to fulfill their contractual obligations under our supply arrangement and our inability to make alternate arrangements or resume the manufacture of these systems ourselves could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows, and relationships with our customers. Our inability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees, including those in executive, managerial, engineering, marketing, as well as highly skilled and qualified technical personnel and personnel to implement and monitor our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems. Attracting, retaining, and motivating qualified personnel may be difficult due to challenging 17 industry conditions, competition for such personnel by other technology companies, consolidations and relocations of operations and workforce reductions. Our inability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Approximately 63% of our 2008 net sales and 68% of our 2007 net sales were generated from sales outside the United States. We expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant, and possibly increasing, portion of our sales in the future. Our non-U.S. sales and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including: •difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, managing distributors and representatives, and repatriation of earnings, •difficulties in obtaining U.S. export licenses in connection with sales of products to customers in certain geographic regions, including China and Asia Pacific, a particular disadvantage relative to our non-U.S. competitors who are not required to comply with U.S. export controls, •regional economic downturns and unstable political environments, •longer sales cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, •multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations, including import/export controls and other trade barriers, and •different customs and ways of doing business. Many of these challenges are present in China, a large potential market for our products and an area that we anticipate will present a significant opportunity for growth. These conditions in China and other foreign economies may continue and recur again in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, political instability, terrorism, acts of war or epidemics in regions where we operate may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risks. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that are inherent in our anticipated sales, sales commitments and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. Although we attempt to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, these hedging activities may not always be available or adequate to eliminate, or even mitigate, the impact of our exchange rate exposure. Failure to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage foreign currency risks properly could materially and adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. Our success depends in part upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to certain of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be circumvented, invalidated or rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. Furthermore, the 18 laws of other countries may less effectively protect our proprietary rights than U.S. laws. Infringement of our rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws. Further, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United States, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing will not be changed in a way detrimental to the sale or use of our products or technology. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by others. From time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent or other rights which they believe cover certain of our products. We also periodically receive notice from customers who believe that we are required to indemnify them for damages they may incur related to infringement claims made against these customers by third parties. Our customary practice is to evaluate such assertions and to consider the available alternatives, including whether to seek a license, if appropriate. However, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks associated with evaluating and pursuing these opportunities and integrating these businesses. We have considered numerous acquisition opportunities and completed several significant acquisitions in the past. We may consider acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, many of which are unpredictable and beyond our control, including: •difficulties and increased costs in integrating the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies, •diversion of management's attention while evaluating, pursuing, and integrating the business to be acquired, •potential loss of key employees of acquired companies, especially if a relocation or change in responsibilities is involved, •difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations in a cost-effective manner, •lack of synergy or inability to realize expected synergies, •increased amortization expense relating to intangible assets, and •the potential impairment and write-down of amounts capitalized as intangible assets and goodwill as part of the acquisition, as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company. 19 Our inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, if we issue equity securities to pay for an acquisition, the ownership percentage of our then-existing shareholders would be reduced and the value of the shares held by these shareholders could be diluted, which could adversely affect the price of our stock and convertible subordinated notes. If we use cash to pay for an acquisition, the payment could significantly reduce the cash that would be available to fund our operations or other purposes, including making payments on the convertible subordinated notes. There can be no assurance that financing for future acquisitions will be available on favorable terms or at all. We are substantially leveraged, which could adversely affect our ability to adjust our business to respond to competitive pressures and to obtain sufficient funds to finance our future needs. We have significant indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total convertible long-term debt of approximately $105.6 million due in 2012. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including but not limited to the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may be limited; •our shareholders would be diluted if holders of all or a portion of our 4.125% subordinated convertible notes elect to convert their notes, up to a maximum aggregate of approximately 5.3 million shares of our common stock; and •we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to pay interest and principal on our debt securities, to satisfy our other debt obligations and to make planned expenditures will be dependent on our future operating performance, which could be affected by changes in economic conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our debt instruments could result in events of default under such instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under such instruments and in some cases acceleration of debt under other instruments that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the instruments relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness or obtain additional financing. During the past few years, the markets for equity and debt securities have fluctuated significantly, especially with respect to technology-related companies, and during some periods offerings of those securities have been extremely difficult to complete. As a result, in the future we may not be able to obtain the additional funds required to fund our operations, invest sufficiently in research and development, and repay or refinance our convertible subordinated notes on reasonable terms, or at all. Such a lack of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results. For example, under FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), we will record additional non-cash interest expense in each reporting period during which our subordinated convertible notes remain outstanding. We expect the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 to have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and earnings per 20 share. This additional interest expense will not require the use of cash. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Application of Critical Accounting Policies" below. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New rules, changes to existing rules, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or change the way we conduct our business. The price of our common shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. The stock market in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. If these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and shareholders could lose all or a substantial part of their investment. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others: •general stock market conditions and uncertainty, such as those occasioned by the global liquidity crisis, negative financial news, and the failure of several large financial institutions; •receipt of substantial orders or cancellations for our products; •actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; •announcements of financial developments or technological innovations; •our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; •changes in recommendations and/or financial estimates by investment research analysts. •strategic transactions, such as acquisitions, divestitures or spin-offs; and •the occurrence of major catastrophic events. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of the Company and technology companies generally. The price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. If similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to internal control evaluations and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance with this requirement is complex, costly and time-consuming. Although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that, as of December 31, 2008, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, or if our management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions, the public's perception of our Company may decline, and our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. 21 We are subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with our business operations, including but not limited to regulations related to the development, manufacture, and use of our products. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development, manufacture, or use of certain of our products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have significant operations in California and other locations which could be materially and adversely impacted, in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption. Our Metrology segment designs and manufactures our atomic force microscopes and other products in Santa Barbara, California. Our operations in this and other locations could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including earthquakes, fires, hurricanes, floods, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition. We have adopted certain measures that may have anti-takeover effects which may make an acquisition of our Company by another company more difficult. We have adopted, and may in the future adopt, certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of our Company that a holder of our common stock might not consider in its best interest. These measures include: •"blank check" preferred stock, •classified board of directors, •shareholder rights plan or "poison pill," and •certain certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares ("blank check" preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock. As a result, the issuance of the preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with each class serving a staggered three-year term. The existence of a classified board will make it more difficult for our shareholders to change the composition (and therefore the policies) of our board of directors in a relatively short period of time. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, under which we have granted to our shareholders rights to purchase shares of junior participating preferred stock. This plan or "poison pill" could discourage a takeover that is not approved by our board of directors but which a shareholder might consider in its best interest, thereby adversely affecting our stock price. We have adopted certain certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions which may have anti-takeover effects. These include: (a) requiring certain actions to be taken at a meeting of shareholders rather than by written consent, (b) requiring a super-majority of shareholders to call a 22 special meeting of shareholders or to approve certain amendments to our bylaws, (c) limiting the maximum number of directors, and (d) providing that directors may be removed only for "cause." These measures and those described above may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of Veeco that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination, including mergers and asset sales, with an interested stockholder (generally, a 15% or greater stockholder) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The operation of Section 203 may have anti-takeover effects, which could delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 