Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our securities are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk. Identified below are material risks known to the Company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS: Exploration Stage Mining Company with No History of Operation The Company is in its exploration stage, has very limited operating history, and is subject to all the risks inherent in a new business enterprise. For example, to date we have had no revenues and have relied upon equity financing to fund our operations. The likelihood of success of the Company must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complication, and delays frequently encountered in connection with an exploration stage business, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which the Company will operate, such as under-capitalization, personnel limitations, and limited revenue sources. Due to Our History of Operating Losses, We are Uncertain That We Will Be Able to Maintain Sufficient Cash to Accomplish Our Business Objectives During the fiscal years ended October 31, 2010 and 2009 we suffered net losses of $9,405,490 and $4,724,110 respectively. At October 31, 2010 there was stockholders’ equity of $39,526,021 and working capital of $9,071,821. There is no assurance that we can generate net income, generate revenues or successfully explore and exploit our properties. 8 Significant amounts of capital will be required to continue to explore and then develop the Sierra Mojada concessions. The Company is not engaged in any revenue producing activities and does not expect to do so in the near future. Currently the Company’s sources of funding consist of the sale of additional equity securities, borrowing funds, or selling a portion of our interests in our assets. There is no assurance that any additional capital that the Company will require will be obtainable on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delays or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our projects. Additionally financing, if available, will likely result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Capital Requirements and Liquidity; Need for Subsequent Funding Company management and our board of directors monitor our overall costs and expenses and, if necessary, adjust Company programs and planned expenditures in an attempt to ensure we have sufficient operating capital. We continue to evaluate our costs and planned expenditures for our on-going exploration project at our Sierra Mojada mining concessions. Although the Company raised in excess of $3,000,000 during its 2010 fiscal year, and the Merger Transaction resulted in the Company’s cash and cash equivalent assets increasing by approximately $14,580,000, the continued exploration and development of the Sierra Mojada project will require significant amounts of additional capital. Additionally, once AngloGold funds its exploration commitment under the joint venture agreements, the Company may require additional capital to further its interests in Gabon. As a result the Company may need to explore raising additional capital during fiscal 2011 so that it can continue to fully fund its planned operations. The weak US and global economies combined with instability in global financial and capital markets have impacted the availability of funding. If the disruptions in the global financial and capital markets continue, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Equity financing, if available, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we are unable to fund future operations by way of financing, including public or private offerings of equity or debt securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Disruptions in the Global Financial and Capital Markets May Impact Our Ability to Obtain Financing. The global financial and capital markets have experienced on-going volatility and disruption. Although we expect to meet our near term liquidity needs with our working capital on hand, we will continue to need further funding to achieve our business objectives. In the past, the issuance of equity securities has been the major source of capital and liquidity for us. The extraordinary conditions in the global financial and capital markets have currently limited the availability of this funding. If the disruptions in the global financial and capital markets continue, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to fund future operations by way of financing, including public or private offerings of equity or debt securities, our b usiness, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our Exploration Activities Require Significant Amounts of Capital that May Not Be Recovered. Mineral exploration activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive or extractable resources will be encountered. There can be no assurance that our activities will ultimately lead to an economically feasible project or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Mineral exploration often involves unprofitable efforts, including drilling operations that ultimately do not further our exploration efforts, as well as operating and other costs. The cost of minerals exploration is often uncertain and cost overruns are common. Our drilling and exploration operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services. No Commercially Mineable Ore Body; Resources and Reserves No commercially mineable ore body has been delineated on the Company’s properties, nor have any reserves been identified. The Company is an exploration stage company and does not currently have any known reserves and cannot be expected to have reserves unless and until a feasibility study is completed for the Sierra Mojada concessions that show proven and probable reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company’s concessions will ever contain reserves and investors may lose their entire investment in the Company. 9 There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of mineral resources such as silver, zinc, lead, and copper, including many factors beyond our control, and no assurance can be given that the recovery of mineral resources will be realized. In general, estimates of recoverable mineral resources are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the resource estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and estimates of future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of resources are only attempts to define the degree of uncerta inty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable mineral resources, the classification of such resources based on risk of recovery, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. No estimates of commerciality or recoverable mineral resources can be made at this time, if ever. Our Business Plan is Highly Speculative and its Success Largely Depends on Mineral Development in the Sierra Mojada Concessions Although the Company holds exploration licenses in Gabon, Africa, our business plan is focused primarily on developing and operating a mine in the Company’s Sierra Mojada concessions and to identify reserves, as described herein. Exploitation of mineralization and determining whether the mineralization might be extracted profitably is highly speculative and it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. The Sierra Mojada Project is subject to all of the risks inherent in mineral development (as described in more detail below), operation and revenue uncertainties, market sizes, profitability, market demand, and commodity price fluctuations. Further, the economic feasibility of any development project is based upon, among other things, estimates of the size and grade of reserves, proximity to infrastructures and other resources (such as water and power), production rates, capital and operating costs, and metals prices. Development projects are also subject to the completion of favorable feasibility studies, issuance of necessary permits and the ability to raise further capital to fund activities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks. The Company Relies on a Third Party to Fund the Exploration and Development of its Interests in Gabon Africa In October 2009 Dome entered into two joint venture agreements with AngloGold with respect to the development of its Ndjole and Mevang exploration licenses in Gabon Africa. Additionally, Dome entered into a separate joint venture agreement with respect to a license held by a third party - the Ogooue license. Prior to Dome entering into the joint venture agreement with respect to its license, Dome was not engaged in active exploration operations with respect to its Gabon licenses. The terms of the joint venture agreements require AngloGold to fund the initial (and current) exploration costs of two of the Company’s exploration licenses. Should AngloGold elect not to fund the exploration commitments under the joint venture agreements, 100% interest in the licenses shall revert to Dome and the joint venture will cease. Accordingly, the Company may have to temporarily (or permanently) scale back exploration of its Gabon licenses and/or attempt to identify another third party to fund the exploration efforts. Alternatively, the Company could suspend altogether its exploration activities in Gabon. Risks Inherent in the Mining Industry The Company is subject to all of the risks inherent in the minerals exploration and mining industry and including, without limitation, the following: • competition from a large number of companies, many of which are significantly larger than the Company, in the acquisition, exploration, and development of mining properties; • the Company might not be able raise enough money to pay the fees, taxes and perform labor necessary to maintain its concessions in good force; 10 • exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves substantial risks, even when conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineralization, our exploration projects may not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore; • the probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves that meet the requirements of Securities Act Industry Guide 7 is extremely remote, or the properties may not contain any reserves, and any funds spent on exploration may be lost; • our operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls and the Company may not be able to comply with these regulations and controls; and • a large number of factors beyond the control of the Company, including fluctuations in metal prices, inflation, and other economic conditions, will affect the economic feasibility of mining. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected in part by currency exchange rates portions of our operating costs in Mexico and Gabon are denominated in the local currency. A weakening U.S. Dollar will have the effect of increasing operating costs while a strengthening U.S. Dollar will have the effect of reducing operating costs. The Gabon local currency is tied to the Euro. The exchange rate between the Euro and the U.S. dollar has fluctuated widely in response to international political conditions, general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. THE BUSINESS OF MINERAL EXPLORATION IS SUBJECT TO MANY RISKS: Fluctuating Price for Metals The Company’s operations will be greatly influenced by the prices of commodities, including silver, zinc, lead, copper, and other metals. These prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including interest rates, expectations for inflation, speculation, currency values, in particular the strength of the United States dollar, global and regional demand, political and economic conditions and production costs in major metal producing regions of the world. Maintaining Mining Concessions in Mexico Impose Various Obligations on the Company The Company holds mining concessions in Mexico. The Company holds title to the concessions that it owns subject to its obligation to maintain the concessions by conducting work on the concessions, recording evidence of the work with the Mexican Ministry of Mines and paying a semi-annual fee to the Mexican government. Ownership of the concessions provides the Company with exclusive exploration and exploitation rights of all minerals located on the concessions, but does not include the surface rights to the real property. Therefore, the Company will need to negotiate the necessary agreements, as needed, with the appropriate surface landowners if the Company determines that a mining operation is feasible for the concessions. The Company currently anticipates that it will build mining infrastructure needed on land in part owned by the Company and in part owned by the local municipality. The municipality officials indicate that they are willing to negotiate the necessary agreements, but there can be no assurance that an agreement that is satisfactory to the Company will be reached. Title to Our Mineral Properties May be Challenged We attempt to confirm the validity of its rights to title to, or contract rights with respect to, each mineral property in which we have a material interest. However, we cannot guarantee that title to our properties will not be challenged. Title insurance generally is not available, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, we may be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. We annually check the official land records in Mexico City to determine if there are annotations indicating the existence of a le gal challenge against the validity of any of our concessions. As of October 2010, there were no such annotations, nor are we aware of any challenges from the government or from third parties. 11 Risks Inherent With Foreign Operations The Company’s operations are currently conducted primarily in Mexico and it also holds interests in Gabon, and as such the operations of the Company are exposed to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, terrorism, hostage taking, military repression, expropriation, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, high rates of inflation, labor unrest, the risks of war or civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits, approvals and contracts, illegal mining, changes in taxation policies, restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation, and changing political conditions, currency controls and governmental regulations that favor or require the rewarding of con tracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Mexico and/or Gabon may adversely affect the operations or profitability of the Company. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral right applications and tenure, could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. The occurrence of these various factors and uncertainties cannot be accurately predicted and could have an adverse effect on the operations of the Company. In addition, legislation in the United States regulating foreign trade, investment and taxation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In management’s judgment, these risks are much less than the equivalent risks would be for a project of a similar nature conducted in the United States. Environmental Controls Compliance with statutory environmental quality requirements may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect the earning power of the Company, or may cause material changes in the Company’s intended activities. Our exploration operations at the Sierra Mojada Project and in Gabon require compliance with local and federal regulations. No assurance can be given that environmental standards imposed by either federal or state governments will not be changed or become more stringent, thereby possibly materially adversely affecting the proposed activities of the Company. In addition, if we are unable to fund fully the cost of remediation of any environmental condition, we may be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remediation . Availability of Water Water is essential in all phases of the exploration and development of mineral properties. It is used in such processes as exploration, drilling, leaching, placer mining, dredging, testing, and hydraulic mining. Mining and ore processing requires large volumes of water. Both the lack of available water and the cost of acquisition may make an otherwise viable project economically impossible to complete. Although work completed thus far indicates that an adequate supply of water can probably be developed in the area for an underground mining operation, the Company will need to complete an additional water exploration program to determine if there is sufficient water available for an open pit mining operation. 12 Shortages of Supplies and Materials The mineral industry has experienced from time to time shortages of certain supplies and materials necessary in the exploration for and evaluation of mineral deposits. The prices at which such supplies and materials are available have also greatly increased. Our planned operations would likely be subject to delays due to such shortages and that further price escalations will increase the Company’s costs of such supplies and materials. Experience of the Company and of others in the industry is that suppliers are currently often unable to meet contractual obligations for supplies, equipment, materials, and services, and that alternate sources of supply do not exist. Availability of Outside Engineers and Consultants The Company is heavily dependent upon outside engineers and other professionals to complete work on its exploration projects. The mining industry has experienced significant growth over the last several years and as a result, many engineering and consulting firms have experienced a shortage of qualified engineering personnel. The Company closely monitors its outside consultants through regular meetings and review of resource allocations and project milestones. However, the lack of qualified personnel combined with increased mining projects could result in delays in completing work on our exploration projects or result in higher costs to keep personnel focused on our project. Operational Hazards; Uninsured Risks The Company is subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The Company may not be insured against all losses or liabilities, which may arise from operations, either because such insurance is unavailable or because the Company has elected not to purchase such insurance due to high premium costs or other reasons. Although the Company ma intains insurance in an amount that we consider to be adequate, liabilities might exceed policy limits, in which event we could incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operation. The realization of any significant liabilities in connection with our mining activities as described above could negatively affect our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Need for Additional Key Personnel; Reliance on Officers and Directors At the present, the Company employs five full-time employees and two outside consultants in the United States, and relies in large part on the personal efforts of its officers and directors. The success of the Company’s proposed business will depend, in part, upon the ability to attract and retain qualified employees. The Company believes that it will be able to attract competent employees, but no assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in this regard. If the Company is unable to engage and retain the necessary personnel, its business would be materially and adversely affected. Recent Changes in Our Senior Management May Result in a Disruption of Operations or Have Adverse Impacts on our Business. After completing the Merger Transaction in April 2010, the Company has significantly reorganized its management team. In July 2010, Merlin Bingham ceased serving as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and soon thereafter Roger Kolvoord ceased serving as the Company’s Executive Vice President. Messrs. Bingham and Kolvoord have been actively involved in the Company and its operations for fourteen and eight years respectively. Mr. Gregory Hahn, a member of the Company’s Board of Directors, was appointed as the Company’s Interim President and Chief Executive Officer in July 2010. Mr. Hahn agreed to serve as the interim Chief Executive Officer and President for a minimum of six months as the Company continues to search for a person to permanently fill those positions. Additionally, in November 2010, the Company’s Vice President of Operations who primarily worked on site at the Sierra Mojada Project ceased employment with the Company. Mr. Timothy Barry, the Company’s recently appointed Vice President Exploration has assumed an active role in managing the Sierra Mojada Project, while the Company searches for a Country Manager. 13 The departure of these officers and the introduction of new officers and directors to fill their positions may disrupt our operations and adversely effect our business operations and planned activities. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK: No Dividends Anticipated At the present time the Company does not anticipate paying dividends, cash or otherwise, on its common stock in the foreseeable future. Future dividends will depend on earnings, if any, of the Company, its financial requirements and other factors. There can be no assurance that the Company will pay dividends. Our Stock Price Can Be Extremely Volatile The trading price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to announcements of our business developments and drill results, progress reports on our feasibility study, the metals markets in general, and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of companies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 