ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A substantial portion of our revenue is generated by a limited number of clients. The loss or reduction in business from any of these clients would adversely affect our business and results of operations.Revenue from our two largest clients, AT&T, Inc. and T-Mobile, accounted for 32.3% and 28.2%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Upon exiting 2012, both clients were under 30% each.We may not be able to retain our principal clients. If we were to lose any of our principal clients, we may not be able to timely replace the revenue generated by them. Loss of a principal client could result from many factors, including consolidation or economic downturns in our clients' industries, as discussed further below. In the first quarter of 2012, we received notice from one of our largest clients of a significant reduction in volume.The future revenue we generate from our principal clients may decline or grow at a slower rate than expected or than it has in the past. In the event we lose any of our principal clients or do not receive call volumes anticipated from these clients, we may suffer from the costs of underutilized capacity because of our inability to eliminate all of the costs associated with conducting business with that client, which could exacerbate the effect that the loss of a principal client would have on our operating results and financial condition. For example, there are no guarantees of volume under the current contract with AT&T. In addition, the current contract with AT&T provides for a tiered incentive pricing structure that provides for lower pricing at higher volumes. Additional productivity gains could be necessary to offset the negative impact that lower per-minute revenue at higher volume levels would have on our margins in future periods.Our contracts generally do not contain minimum purchase requirements and can generally be terminated by our customers on short notice without penalty.We enter into written agreements with each client for our services and seek to sign multi-year contracts with our clients. However these contracts generally permit termination upon 30 to 90 days notice by our clients, do not designate us as our clients' exclusive outsourced services provider, do not penalize our clients for early termination, hold us responsible for work performed that does not meet pre-defined specifications and do not contain minimum purchase requirements or volume commitments. Accordingly, we face the risk that our clients may cancel or renegotiate contracts we have with them, which may adversely affect our results. If a principal client cancelled or did not renew their contract with us, our results would suffer. In addition, because the amount of revenue generated from any particular client is generally dependent on the volume and activity of our clients' customers, as described above, our business depends in part on the success of our clients' products. The number of customers who are attracted to the products of our clients may not be sufficient or our clients may not continue to develop new products that will require our services, in which case it may be more likely for our clients to terminate their contracts with us. Moreover, clients who may not terminate their contacts with us without cause could generally reduce the volume of services they outsource to us which would have an adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and overall financial condition.Our client base is concentrated in the communications industry and our strategy partially depends on a trend of communications companies continuing to outsource non-core services. If the communications industry suffers a downturn or the trend toward outsourcing reverses, our business will suffer. Our current clients are almost exclusively communications companies, which include companies in the wire-line, wireless, cable and broadband lines of business. During 2012, we experienced lower call volumes from our customers in the wire-line and wireless businesses which adversely affected our results. Currently, our business is largely dependent on continued demand for our services from clients in this industry and on trends in this industry to purchase outsourced services. A significant change in this trend could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 7Our lack of a wide geographic diversity outside of North America may adversely affect our ability to serve existing customers or limit our ability to obtain new customers. Although we currently conduct operations in Canada, the Philippines, Costa Rica and Honduras, we do not have a wide geographic diversity. Our lack of such diversity could adversely affect our business if one or more of our customers decide to move their existing business process outsourcing services offshore. It may also limit our ability to gain new clients who may require business process service providers to have this greater flexibility across differing geographies. The movement of business process outsourcing services to other countries has been extensively reported in the press. Most analysts continue to believe that many outsourced services will continue to migrate to other countries with lower wages than those prevailing in the U.S. Accordingly, unless and until we continue to develop significant geographic diversity, we may be competitively disadvantaged compared to a number of our competitors who have already devoted significant time and money to establishing extensive offshore operations.If we decide to open facilities in, or otherwise expand into, additional countries, we may not be able to successfully establish operations in the markets that we target. There are certain risks inherent in conducting business in other countries including, but not limited to, exposure to currency fluctuations, difficulties in complying with foreign laws, unexpected changes in government programs, policies, regulatory requirements and labor laws, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political instability, and potentially adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects, results of operations, and financial condition.Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to maximize our facility capacity utilization.Our profitability is influenced by our facility capacity utilization. The majority of our business involves technical support and customer care services initiated by our clients' customers, and as a result, our capacity utilization varies, and demands on our capacity are, to some degree, beyond our control. We have experienced, and in the future may experience periods of idle capacity from opening new facilities where forecasted volume levels do not materialize. In addition, we have experienced, and in the future may experience idle peak period capacity when we open a new facility or terminate or complete a large client program. These periods of idle capacity may be exacerbated if we expand our facilities or open new facilities in anticipation of new client business because we generally do not have the ability to require a client to enter into a long-term contract or to require clients to reimburse us for capacity expansion costs if they terminate their relationship with us or do not provide us with anticipated service volumes. From time to time, we assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our facilities. Accordingly, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate or close under-performing facilities in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. We closed our facility in Collinsville, Virginia during the first quarter of 2012. In 2012, the decision was made to consolidate the business performed in Enid, Oklahoma into another U.S. facility. In February 2012, we received a customer notification of its intent to reduce its business in our Decatur, Illinois and Jonesboro, Arkansas facilities. We secured new business for the Jonesboro facility and we continue to sell to this capacity. The Decatur facility closed in January 2013. During 2012, we recognized $4.1 million in impairment losses and restructuring charges related to facility closures and assets whereby the carrying value did not support future cash flows. We may incur further impairment losses and restructuring charges during 2013 related to any additional planned closures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal facility capacity utilization. In 2011 we expanded into the Honduras market and during 2012 we filled the initial commitment and added incremental space to handle expected demand. If we are unable to sell this capacity in the near term our results will be less than full capacity utilization. Our two Philippine centers are close to full capacity and we are managing the seasonal efforts of our clients to the best of our ability. Capacity utilization may fluctuate as client demand ebbs and flows and we may need to add incremental space in order to sell incremental business.If client demand declines due to economic conditions or otherwise, we would not leverage our fixed costs as effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in Canada, the Philippines, Costa Rica and Honduras subject us to the risk of currency exchange fluctuations.Because we conduct a material portion of our business outside the United States, in Canada, the Philippines, Costa Rica and Honduras, we are exposed to market risk from changes in the value of the Canadian dollar, Philippine peso, Costa Rican colon and the Honduran lempira. Material fluctuations in exchange rates impact our results through translation and consolidation of 8the financial results of our foreign operations and, therefore, may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have contracts wherein the revenue we earn is denominated in U.S. dollars, but the costs we incur to fulfill our obligations under those contracts are denominated in Canadian dollars, Philippine pesos and, to a lesser extent, the Costa Rican colon and Honduran lempira. Therefore, the fluctuations in the U.S. dollar to the Canadian dollar, Philippine peso, Costa Rican colon or Honduran lempira exchange rates can cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We engage in hedging activities relating to our exposure to such fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar and the Philippine peso. During 2012, we did not enter into hedging agreements for the Costa Rican colon or Honduran lempira. Our hedging strategy, including our ability to acquire the desired amount of hedge contracts, may not sufficiently protect us from further strengthening of these currencies against the U.S. Dollar.As a global company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the United States. During 2012, we generated approximately 65.0% or $128.7 million of our revenue from operations outside the United States. Circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors:•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions;•differing employment practices and labor issues;•local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices;•volatility in currencies;•currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws;•potentially adverse tax consequences;•the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing;•the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability;•political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist activities; and•access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations.Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the United States) also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws. Although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we are not able to hire and retain qualified employees, our ability to service our existing customers and retain new customers will be adversely affected.Our success is largely dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain qualified employees. Our business is labor intensive and, as is typical for our industry, continues to experience high personnel turnover. Our operations, especially our technical support and customer care services, generally require specially trained employees, which, in turn, requires significant recruiting and training costs. Such turnover adversely affects our operating efficiency, productivity and ability to fully respond to client demand, thereby adversely impacting our operating results. Some of this turnover can be attributed to the fact that we compete for labor not only with other call centers but also with other similar-paying jobs, including retail, services industries, food service, etc. As such, improvements in the local economies in which we operate can adversely affect our ability to recruit agents in those locations. Further increases in employee turnover or failure to effectively manage these high attrition rates would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The addition of new clients or implementation of new projects for existing clients may require us to recruit, hire, and train personnel at accelerated rates. We may not be able to successfully recruit, hire, train, and retain sufficient qualified personnel to adequately staff for existing business or future growth, particularly if we undertake new client relationships in industries in which we have not previously provided services. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses consists of labor-related costs, labor shortages or increases in wages (including minimum wages as mandated by the U.S. and Canadian federal governments, employee benefit costs, employment tax rates, and other labor related expenses) could cause our business, operating profits, and financial condition to suffer. Economic and legislative changes in the U.S. may encourage organizing 9efforts in the future which, if successful, could further increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity.Our operating costs may increase as a result of higher labor costs. During the past economic downturns, we, like a number of companies in our industry, sought to limit our labor costs by limiting salary increases and payment of cash bonuses to our employees. During 2012, the local economies in some of the locations in which we operate experienced growth, which causes pressure on labor rates to remain competitive within the local economies. If these growth trends continue, we may need to further increase salaries or otherwise compensate our employees at higher levels in order to remain competitive. Higher salaries or other forms of compensation are likely to increase our cost of operations. If such increases are not offset by increased revenue, they will negatively impact our financial results. Conversely, if labor rates decrease due to higher unemployment in the current economic downturn, our cost of operations may decrease. In the past, some of our employees have attempted to organize a labor union, and economic and legislative changes. may encourage organizing efforts in the future which, if successful, could further increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity.We have experienced significant management turnover and need to retain key management personnel.In June 2011, Chad A. Carlson was named as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Lisa Weaver became the Chief Financial Officer in October of 2011. Joe Duryea was hired to lead Sales & Marketing in April 2012. Pat Hain became the Vice President, Information and Technology in June 2012. Rod Leach became the Senior Vice President of Global Operations in August 2012. We must successfully integrate any new management personnel whom we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives. Changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as the new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel.Our strategy partially depends on a trend of companies continuing to outsource non-core services. Our existing clients and a number of clients we are currently targeting have been decreasing the number of firms they rely on to outsource their business process outsourced services. Due to financial uncertainties and the potential reduction in demand for our clients' products and services, our clients and prospective clients may decide to further consolidate the number of firms on which they rely for their business process outsourced services to reduce costs. Under these circumstances, our clients may cancel current contracts with us, or we may fail to attract new clients, which will adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, they may seek price reductions on our contracts as means to lower their costs. If global economic and market conditions remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.Our business relies heavily on technology and computer systems, which subjects us to various uncertainties. We have invested significantly in sophisticated and specialized communications and computer technology and have focused on the application of this technology to meet our clients' needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis to maintain our competitiveness. Significant capital expenditures may be required to keep our technology up-to-date. There can be no assurance that any of our information systems will be adequate to meet our future needs or that we will be able to incorporate new technology to enhance and develop our existing services. Moreover, investments in technology, including future investments in upgrades and enhancements to software, may not necessarily maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to anticipate and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands.10Increases in the cost of telephone and data services or significant interruptions in such services could adversely affect our business.We depend on telephone and data services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. Because of this dependence, any change to the telecommunications market that would disrupt these services or limit our ability to obtain services at favorable rates could affect our business. We have taken steps to mitigate our exposure to the risks associated with rate fluctuations and service disruption by entering into long-term contracts with various providers for telephone and data services and by investing in redundant circuits. There is no obligation, however, for the vendors to renew their contracts with us or to offer the same or lower rates in the future, and such contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control. In addition, there is no assurance that a redundant circuit would not also be disrupted. A significant increase in the cost of telephone services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services or any significant interruption in telephone services, could adversely affect our business. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and penalties and may cause us to lose clients. We are dependent on IT networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or customer data. As a result, we are subject to contractual terms and numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Although we maintain cyber liability insurance, such insurance may not adequately or timely compensate us for all losses we may incur. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information and unauthorized access to or the unintended release of this information could result in a claim for damage or loss of business and create unfavorable publicity. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. This information may include social security numbers, financial and health information, as well as other personal information. As a result, we are subject to certain contractual terms as well as federal, state and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect personally identifiable information. We take measures to protect against unauthorized access and to comply with these laws and regulations. We use the internet as a mechanism for delivering our services to clients, which may expose us to potential disruptive intrusions. Unauthorized access, system denials of service, or failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations may subject us to contractual liability and damages, loss of business, damages from individual claimants, fines, penalties, criminal prosecution and unfavorable publicity, any of which could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, third party vendors that we engage to perform services for us may have an unintended release of personally identifiable information. If we make acquisitions, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products, or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we engage in such acquisitions, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies. Acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire companies, products, or technologies, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes or increase our debt. If we use our common stock to acquire companies, products, or technologies, we may experience a change of control or our stockholders may experience substantial dilution or both. If we are unable to meet the debt covenant requirements under our revolving credit facility, potential growth and results of operations may suffer.11As of December 31, 2012, we had a $10.0 million secured revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo, which has a term of four years. As of December 31, 2012, there was no balance outstanding on this facility. If we do not meet the debt covenant requirements under the new revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, we may lose an important source of liquidity and be unable to meet short-term cash needs required for growth opportunities and we could face adverse effects on our financial statements, including payments for waivers or higher interest rate obligations. Our largest stockholder has the ability to significantly influence corporate actions.A. Emmet Stephenson, Jr., one of our co-founders, together with his wife, owned approximately 23.7% of our outstanding common stock as of February 7, 2013. Under an agreement we have entered into with Mr. Stephenson, so long as Mr. Stephenson, together with members of his family, beneficially owns 10% or more (but less than 30%) of our outstanding common stock, Mr. Stephenson will be entitled to designate one of our nominees for election to the board, although he has not currently exercised this right. In addition, our bylaws allow that any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock may call a special meeting of our stockholders. The concentration of voting power in Mr. Stephenson's hands, and the control Mr. Stephenson may exercise over us as described above, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that might otherwise benefit our stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile and may decline significantly and unexpectedly.The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and could be subject to wide fluctuations, in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in management, the degree of success in implementing our business and growth strategies, announcements of new contracts or contract cancellations, announcements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, the perception that significant stockholders may sell or intend to sell their shares, or other events or factors we cannot currently foresee. We are also subject to broad market fluctuations, given the overall volatility of the current U.S. and global economies, where the market prices of equity securities of many companies experience substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, because our common stock trades at relatively low volume levels, any change in demand for our stock can be expected to substantially influence market prices thereof. The trading price of our stock varied from a low of $1.77 to a high of $4.26 during 2012.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Smaller reporting companies are not required to provide the information required by this item; however, there were none. 12