Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors That May Impact Future Results In addition to the other information set forth herein, the following risk factors should be carefully considered by shareholders of and potential investors in the Company. The cyclicality of the microelectronics industries we serve directly affects our business. Veeco’s business depends in large part upon the capital expenditures of data storage, HB-LED/wireless and semiconductor manufacturers, as well as research and industrial customers, which accounted for the following percentages of our net sales for the periods indicated: Sales by Market (% Revenue) Year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Data Storage 42 % 41 % 32 % HB-LED/wireless 20 % 15 % 25 % Semiconductor 13 % 17 % 14 % Scientific Research and Industrial 25 % 27 % 29 % Veeco is subject to the business cycles of these industries, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. These industries have historically been highly cyclical and have experienced significant economic downturns in the last decade. As a capital equipment provider, our revenues depend in large part on the spending patterns of these customers, who often delay expenditures or cancel or reschedule orders in reaction to variations in their businesses or general economic conditions. In downturns, we must be able to quickly and effectively align our costs with prevailing market conditions, as well as motivate and retain key employees. However, because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to revenue shortfalls is limited. A downturn in one or more of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. During periods of rapid growth, we must be able to acquire and/or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, and attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. We cannot give assurances that our net sales and operating results will not be adversely affected if our customers experience economic downturns or slowdowns in their businesses. We operate in an industry characterized by rapid technological change. The data storage, HB-LED/wireless, semiconductor and scientific research and industrial industries are subject to rapid technological change. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to enhance existing products and develop and manufacture new products in a timely and cost effective manner and to accurately predict technology transitions. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, we must anticipate the future demand for products in selecting which development programs to fund and pursue. Our financial results for 2007 will depend to a great extent on the successful introduction of several new products, many of which require achieving increasingly 13 stringent technical specifications. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or in enhancing existing products. We face significant competition. We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Many of our competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. New product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower margins. Our failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm our business. We depend on a limited number of customers that operate in highly concentrated industries. Our customer base is and has been highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of our net sales, which may lead customers to demand pricing and other terms less favorable to us. Based on net sales, Seagate Technology, Inc. is our largest customer, with 18%, 15% and 10% of total net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our next largest customer is Hitachi Ltd., with 10%, 9% and 6% of total net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively (our only customers with sales greater than 10% in any of the past three years). If a principal customer discontinues its relationship with us or suffers economic setbacks, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to increase sales in the future will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers. We cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. In addition, because a relatively small number of large manufacturers, many of whom are our customers, dominate the industries in which they operate, it may be especially difficult for us to replace these customers if we lose their business. A substantial portion of orders in our backlog are orders from our principal customers. In addition, a substantial investment is required by customers to install and integrate capital equipment into a production line. As a result, once a manufacturer has selected a particular vendor’s capital equipment, we believe that the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for the specific production line application and frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendor. Accordingly, if a customer selects a competitor’s product over ours for technical superiority or other reasons, we could experience difficulty selling to that customer for a significant period of time. Furthermore, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales and we are exposed to competitive price pressure on each new order we attempt to obtain. Our failure to obtain new sales orders from new or existing customers, would have a negative impact on our results of operations. The timing of our orders, shipments and revenue recognition may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. We derive a substantial portion of our net sales in any fiscal period from the sale of a relatively small number of high-priced systems. As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue for a single transaction could have a material effect on our sales and operating results for a particular fiscal period. As is typical in our industry, orders, shipments and customer acceptances often occur during the last few weeks of a quarter. As a result, delay of only a week or two can often shift the related booking or net sales into the next quarter, which could adversely affect our reported results for the prior quarter. Our quarterly results 14 have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect this trend to continue. If our orders, shipments, net sales or operating results in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our stock price may be adversely affected. Changes in our product mix may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. Certain of our business segments have historically had lower gross margins than other segments. We expect this trend to continue. If a greater portion of our overall business in the future comes from business segments operating at lower gross margins, then our overall gross margins will decline. This could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our customers may cancel or reschedule their orders with us. Customer purchase orders are subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer, generally with limited or no penalties. Often, we have incurred expenses prior to such cancellation without adequate monetary compensation. Backlog adjustments during the year ended December 31, 2006, including order cancellations, were $26.0 million. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable. Historically, we have experienced long and unpredictable sales cycles (the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the time when we recognize revenue from that customer). Our sales cycle can range up to twelve months. The timing of an order often depends on the capital expenditure budget cycle of our customers, which is completely out of our control. In addition, the time it takes us to build a product to customer specifications (the “build cycle”) typically ranges from one to six months, followed in certain cases by a period of customer acceptance during which the customer evaluates the performance of the system and may potentially reject the system. As a result of the build cycle and evaluation periods, the period between a customer’s initial purchase decision and revenue recognition on an order often varies widely, and variations in length of this period can cause further fluctuations in our operating results. As a result of our lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling and general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products. We may never generate the anticipated revenues if a customer cancels or changes plans. Variations in the length of our sales cycle could also cause our net sales and therefore our cash flow and net income to fluctuate widely from period to period. We face securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management’s attention and resources and negative publicity. Veeco and certain of its officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit pending in federal court in the Southern District of New York (the “Court”). The lawsuit arises out of the restatement in March 2005 of Veeco’s financial statements for the quarterly periods and nine months ended September 30, 2004 as a result of the Company’s discovery of certain improper accounting transactions at its TurboDisc business unit. The plaintiffs in the lawsuit seek unspecified damages and assert claims against all defendants for violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and claims against the individual defendants for violations of Section 20(b) of the Exchange Act. The Court has certified a plaintiff class for the lawsuit consisting of all persons who acquired the Company’s securities during the period from April 26, 2004 through February 10, 2005. The parties are currently involved in the discovery process. Although the Company believes this lawsuit is without merit and intends to defend vigorously against the claims, the lawsuit could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources from our operations and negatively affect our public image and reputation. 15 In addition, three shareholder derivative lawsuits have been consolidated and are also pending before the Court. The plaintiffs in the consolidated derivative action assert that the Company’s directors and certain of its officers breached fiduciary duties in connection with the improper accounting transactions at the TurboDisc business unit. The plaintiffs in the consolidated derivative action seek unspecified damages allegedly sustained by the Company and the return of all bonuses, restricted stock, stock options and other incentive compensation. The parties are currently involved in the discovery process on this action. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation in these matters could materially harm the Company’s business. Our outsourcing strategy could adversely affect our results of operations. To better align our costs with market conditions and to increase productivity and operational efficiency, we have outsourced, and plan to increase the outsourcing of, certain functions to third parties. While outsourcing may reduce our cost of operations, it also reduces our direct control over the services rendered. Although we attempt to select reputable providers, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect. In addition, the expanded role of third party providers has required and will continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and adopt new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers. If we do not timely and effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy or if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we may not realize gross margin or productivity improvements and we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, or even manufacturing delays, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers. Failure of the suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business. We generally do not have guaranteed supply or pricing arrangements with our suppliers. As a result, we risk increased cost of materials and difficulty in procuring the parts we need to fill customer orders. We currently use numerous suppliers, however, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Failure of any of these suppliers to perform in a timely or quality manner could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, including those in executive, managerial, engineering, marketing and other roles. Our growth is dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified technical personnel, in addition to personnel that can implement and monitor our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems. Attracting, retaining and motivating qualified personnel may be difficult due to challenging industry conditions, competition for such personnel by other technology companies, consolidations and relocations of operations and workforce reductions. Our inability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. On November 15, 2006, Edward H. Braun announced his intention to transition during 2007 from his current role as Veeco’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to the position of Chairman. Mr. Braun will continue to serve as Chief Executive Officer until a successor has been appointed. A succession committee of the Board of Directors has been formed to search for a new Chief Executive Officer and the committee has been actively conducting a search. There can be no assurance that a suitable replacement for Mr. Braun in his role as Chief Executive Officer will be found in a timely manner or upon terms and conditions that are acceptable. 16 We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Approximately 67% of our 2006 and 2005 net sales were generated from sales outside the United States. We expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant, and possibly increasing, portion of our sales in the future. Our non-U.S. sales and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including: · difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, managing distributors and representatives and repatriation of earnings, · difficulties in obtaining U.S. export licenses in connection with sales of products to customers in certain geographic regions, including China and Asia Pacific, a particular disadvantage relative to our non-U.S. competitors who are not required to comply with U.S. export controls, · periodic regional economic downturns and unstable political environments, · longer sales cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, · multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including import/export controls and other trade barriers, and · different customs and ways of doing business. Many of these challenges are present in China, a large potential market for the Company’s products and an area that we anticipate will present a significant opportunity for growth. Instability in China and other foreign economies may continue and recur again in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, political instability, terrorism, acts of war or epidemics in regions where we operate may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risks. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that are inherent in our anticipated sales, sales commitments and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. Although we attempt to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, these hedging activities may not always be available or adequate to eliminate, or even mitigate, the impact of our exchange rate exposure. Failure to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage foreign currency risks properly could materially and adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. Our success depends on protection of our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to certain of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be circumvented, invalidated or rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change. Furthermore, the laws of other countries may less effectively protect our proprietary rights than U.S. laws. Infringement of our rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities. 17 On September 17, 2003, we commenced a lawsuit against Asylum Research Inc. (“Asylum”), a privately-held company founded by former Veeco employees. The lawsuit alleges infringement of five patents relating to our AFM technologies. We are seeking monetary damages and a permanent injunction to stop infringement. Asylum has asserted that the patents we are suing on are invalid and unenforceable and has filed a counterclaim for infringement of a patent licensed by Asylum and payment of royalties it believes it is owed. Cross motions for summary judgment related to the issues of infringement and/or validity of the patents in the suit are pending. The court has held hearings on the summary judgment motions and has referred many of the issues to a Special Master. We believe Asylum’s claims are without merit and intend to vigorously pursue our claims. Nonetheless, the costs of pursuing this matter are significant and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this matter. Costs to defend the patents are being capitalized by the Company. If the Company is not successful in defending the patents, these costs may be required to be written down under U.S. generally accepted accounting policies. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by others. From time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent or other rights which they believe cover certain of our products. We also periodically receive notice from customers who believe that we are required to indemnify them for damages they may incur related to infringement claims made against these customers by third parties. Our customary practice is to evaluate such assertions and to consider the available alternatives, including whether to seek a license, if appropriate. However, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to risks associated with evaluating and pursuing these opportunities and integrating these businesses. We have considered numerous acquisition opportunities and completed several significant acquisitions in the past. We may consider acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, many of which are unpredictable and beyond our control, including: · difficulties and increased costs in integrating the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies, · diversion of management’s attention while evaluating, pursuing and integrating the business to be acquired, · potential loss of key employees of acquired companies, especially if a relocation or change in responsibilities is involved, · difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations in a cost-effective manner, · lack of synergy or inability to realize expected synergies, · increased amortization expense relating to intangible assets, and · possible write-down of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company. Our inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we issue equity securities to pay for an acquisition, the ownership percentage of our then-existing shareholders would be reduced and the value of the shares held by these shareholders could 18 be diluted, which could adversely affect the price of our stock and convertible subordinated notes. If we use cash to pay for an acquisition, the payment could significantly reduce the cash that would be available to fund our operations or other purposes, including making payments on the convertible subordinated notes. There can be no assurance that financing for future acquisitions will be available on favorable terms or at all. Changes in accounting standards for stock-based compensation may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees. We have historically used broad based stock option programs and other forms of equity-related incentives as a key component of our employee compensation packages. Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R) “Share Based Payment”, beginning in our first fiscal quarter of 2006, we were required to recognize compensation expense in our statement of operations for the fair value of unvested employee stock options outstanding on the date of adoption and new stock options granted to our employees after the adoption date over the related vesting periods of the stock options. The change in accounting treatment has resulted in and will in the future result in our reporting increased expenses, which has decreased and will decrease our net earnings, and could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The requirement to expense stock options granted to employees reduces the attractiveness of granting stock options. However, stock options remain an important employee retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program. The implementation of a new information technology system may disrupt our operations. Our ability to design, manufacture, market and service our products is dependent on information technology systems that encompass all of our major business functions. We are in the process of implementing a comprehensive enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) software system. This new ERP system will cover many areas of our business. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. If we encounter unforeseen delays or difficulties or significant increased costs in implementing our system, we could be adversely affected. We may not obtain sufficient affordable funds to finance our future needs. We may need to make significant capital expenditures to continue our operations and to enhance our manufacturing capability to keep pace with rapidly changing technologies. Also, our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If we fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to potential customers. As a result of our emphasis on research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase in the future. In addition, our 4.125% convertible subordinated notes come due in December 2008. As of February 15, 2007, we had $154 million of these notes outstanding. If cash flow from our operations is not sufficient to repay these notes, we may have to borrow funds to do so. During the past few years, the markets for equity and debt securities have fluctuated significantly, especially with respect to technology-related companies, and during some periods offerings of those securities have been extremely difficult to complete. As a result, in the future we may not be able to obtain the additional funds required to fund our operations, invest sufficiently in research and development and repay or refinance our convertible subordinated notes on reasonable terms, or at all. Such a lack of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with our business operations, including but not limited to regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of our products. 19 Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development, manufacture or use of certain of our products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have adopted certain measures that may have anti-takeover effects which may make an acquisition of our company by another company more difficult. We have adopted, and may in the future adopt, certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of Veeco that a holder of our common stock might not consider in its best interest. These measures include: · “blank check” preferred stock, · classified board of directors, · shareholder rights plan or “poison pill,” and · certain certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares (“blank check” preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock. As a result, the issuance of the preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with each class serving a staggered three-year term. The existence of a classified board will make it more difficult for our shareholders to change the composition (and therefore the policies) of our board of directors in a relatively short period of time. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, under which we have granted to our shareholders rights to purchase shares of junior participating preferred stock. This plan or “poison pill” could discourage a takeover that is not approved by our board of directors but which a shareholder might consider in its best interest, thereby adversely affecting our stock price. We have adopted certain certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions which may have anti-takeover effects. These include: (a) requiring certain actions to be taken at a meeting of shareholders rather than by written consent, (b) requiring a super-majority of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders or to approve certain amendments to our bylaws, (c) limiting the maximum number of directors, and (d) providing that directors may be removed only for “cause.” These measures and those described above may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of Veeco that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination, including mergers and asset sales, with an interested stockholder (generally, a 15% or greater stockholder) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The operation of Section 203 may have anti-takeover effects, which could delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 