Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Reductions in telecommunications equipment and systems spending have negatively affected our revenues and profitability of our infrastructure solutions segment, which may not be offset by the growth in our services segment. During the past several years, as a consequence of the worldwide financial and economic crisis and continuing business downturn, the global economy has been adversely impacted and nearly all businesses, including ours, have faced uncertain economic environments. As a result of the current global economic conditions, our customers have reduced and may continue to reduce their budgets for spending on telecommunications equipment and systems. As a consequence, our current customers and other prospective customers may postpone, reduce or even forego the purchase of our products and systems, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. For the year ended June 30, 2010, our infrastructure solutions segment in particular was impacted by these factors. It is currently difficult to assess whether or not future bookings or revenues in this segment will meet or exceed the levels experienced in the recent past. The growth of our services segment in recent periods may not be sufficient to offset any prolonged continuation of a decline in business in our infrastructure segment. A limited number of customer contracts account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the inability to replace a key customer contract or the failure of the customer to implement its plans would adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition. We rely on a small number of customer contracts for a large portion of our revenue. Specifically, we have agreements with two customers to provide equipment and services, from which we expect to generate a significant portion of our revenues. If our key customers are unable to implement their business plans, the market for these customers’ services declines, political or military conditions make performance impossible or if any or all of the major customers modify or terminate their agreements with us, and we are unable to replace these contracts, our results of operations, business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the government marketplace, and a downturn in this marketplace would adversely affect us. In the year ended June 30, 2010, we derived 62% of our consolidated revenues from the government marketplace. This business tends to have higher gross margins than other markets we serve. A future 17 Table of Contents reduction in the proportion of our business from the government marketplace would negatively impact our results of operations. There are a number of other risks associated with the government marketplace; specifically, purchasing decisions of agencies are subject to political influence, contracts are subject to cancellation if government funding becomes unavailable, and unsuccessful bidders may challenge contracts that are awarded to us, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of contracts. In particular, the current government involvement in supporting various financial institutions and mounting government deficits will likely result in failures to fund various government programs. A withdrawal of military forces from areas of conflict could result in curtailed spending in military programs in which we participate, particularly in Afghanistan, from which we have generated a significant amount of revenue in recent periods. Risks associated with operating in international markets, including areas of conflict, could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. We market and sell a substantial portion of our products and services internationally. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future, including revenues from our Mach 6, Telaurus, C2C and Evocomm acquisitions, with a significant portion of the international revenue coming from developing countries, including countries in areas of conflict like Afghanistan. There are a number of risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: • general political and economic instability in international markets, including the hostilities in Iraq and Afghanistan, could impede our ability to deliver our products and services to customers; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could affect our results of operations; • changes in regulatory requirements could restrict our ability to deliver services to our international customers, including the addition of a country to the list of sanctioned countries under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act or similar legislation; • export restrictions, tariffs, licenses and other trade barriers could prevent us from adequately equipping our network facilities; • differing technology standards across countries may impede our ability to integrate our products and services across international borders; • protectionist laws and business practices favoring local competition may give unequal bargaining leverage to key vendors in countries where competition is scarce, significantly increasing our operating costs; • increased expenses associated with marketing services in foreign countries could affect our ability to compete; • relying on local subcontractors for installation of our products and services could adversely impact the quality of our products and services; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations could affect our ability to compete; • complex foreign laws and treaties could affect our ability to compete; and • potentially adverse taxes could affect our results of operations. These and other risks could impede our ability to manage our international operations effectively, limit the future growth and profitability of our business, increase our costs and require significant management attention. 18 Table of Contents Our service revenue has increased as a percentage of total revenue and if our service revenue decreases or margins decrease, our results of operations will be harmed. The future revenues and results of operations of our services segment are dependent on the development of the market for its current and future services. In fiscal 2010, services revenues increased to 60% of total revenues compared to 48% and 32% in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The service business tends to have significantly higher gross margins than our infrastructure solutions business. A future reduction in the proportion of our services business would disproportionately impact our results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from fixed-price projects, under which we assume greater financial risk if we fail to accurately estimate the costs of the projects. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from fixed-price projects. We assume greater financial risks on a fixed-price project than on a time-and-expense based project. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need for these fixed-price projects, the costs of completing these projects may exceed our original estimates, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions and strategic investments may divert our resources and management’s attention, results may fall short of expectations and, as a result, our operating results may be difficult to forecast and may be volatile. We have made several recent acquisitions and intend to continue pursuing acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, technologies and product lines as a key component of our growth strategy. Any future acquisitions or investments may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangibles assets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • failure of the acquisition or investment to meet the expectations upon which we made a decision to proceed; • difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired business; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • substantial transaction costs; • the potential of significant goodwill and intangibles write-offs in the future in the event that an acquisition or investment does not meet expectations; • increased expenses associated with the consummation and integration of an acquisition; and • loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of any acquired business. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or strategic investment will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the event of a catastrophic loss affecting our operations in Hauppauge, New York, Laurel, Maryland or the Netherlands, our results of operations would be harmed. GNSC’s revenues and results of operations are dependent on the infrastructure of the network operations center and the Kenneth A. Miller International Teleport at our headquarters in Hauppauge, New York. Similarly, GSM’s and C2C’s revenues and results of operations are dependent on the infrastructure of the network operations center and teleport at our Laurel, Maryland and Netherlands facilities, respectively. A catastrophic event to any of these facilities or to the infrastructure of the surrounding areas would result in significant delays in restoring services capabilities. These capabilities permit us to offer an integrated suite of products and services and the incapacity of our communications 19 Table of Contents infrastructure would also negatively impact our ability to sell our infrastructure solutions. This would result in the loss of revenues and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our markets are highly competitive and we have many established competitors, and we may lose market share as a result. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and this competition could harm our ability to sell our products and services on prices and terms favorable to us. Our primary competitors in the infrastructure solutions market generally fall into two groups: (1) system integrators, like Thales, Rockwell Collins, and SED Systems, and (2) equipment manufacturers who also provide integrated systems, like General Dynamics, SATCOM Technologies, Viasat, Alcatel and ND Satcom AG. In the end-to-end satellite-based enterprise solutions and broadcast services markets, we compete with other satellite communication companies who provide similar services, like Ascent Media, Globecast, and Convergent Media Systems. In addition, in our services segment we may compete with other communications service providers such as Caprock and Segovia, and satellite owners like SES Americom and Intelsat. We anticipate that our competitors may develop or acquire services that provide functionality that is similar to that provided by our services and that those services may be offered at significantly lower prices or bundled with other services. These competitors may have the financial resources to withstand substantial price competition, may be in a better position to endure difficult economic conditions in international markets and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Moreover, many of our competitors have more extensive customer bases, broader customer relationships and broader industry alliances than we do that they could use to their advantage in competitive situations. The markets in which we operate have limited barriers to entry, and we expect that we will face additional competition from existing competitors and new market entrants in the future. Moreover, our current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products and services to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. The potential strategic relationships of existing and new competitors may rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business and financial condition. If our products and services are not accepted in developing countries with emerging markets, our revenues will be impaired. We anticipate that a substantial portion of the growth in the demand for our products and services will come from customers in developing countries due to a lack of basic communications infrastructure in these countries. However, we cannot guarantee an increase in the demand for our products and services in developing countries or that customers in these countries will accept our products and services at all. Our ability to penetrate emerging markets in developing countries is dependent upon various factors including: • the speed at which communications infrastructure, including terrestrial microwave, coaxial cable and fiber optic communications systems, which compete with satellite-based services, is built; • the effectiveness of our local resellers and sales representatives in marketing and selling our products and services; and • the acceptance of our products and services by customers. If our products and services are not accepted, or the market potential we anticipate does not develop, our revenues will be impaired. 20 Table of Contents Since sales of satellite communications equipment are dependent on the growth of communications networks, if market demand for these networks does not increase from recent depressed levels, our revenue and profitability are likely to decline. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant amount of revenues from the sale of satellite infrastructure solutions. If the long-term growth in demand for communications networks does not increase from recent depressed levels, the demand for our infrastructure solutions may decline or grow more slowly than we expect. Further, increased competition among satellite ground segment systems and network manufacturers has increased pricing pressures and depressed margins. As a result, we may not be able to grow our infrastructure business, our revenues may decline from current levels and our results of operations may be harmed. The demand for communications networks and the products used in these networks is affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, the uncertain general economic conditions have affected the overall rate of capital spending by many of our customers. Also, many companies have found it difficult to raise capital to finish building their communications networks and, therefore, have placed fewer orders. Past economic slowdowns resulted in a softening of demand from our customers. We cannot predict the extent to which demand will increase, nor the timing of such demand. We depend upon certain key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees. If we lose the services of these individuals or cannot hire additional qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. Our success also depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly-qualified personnel. There is considerable competition for the services of highly-qualified technical and engineering personnel. We may not be able either to retain our current personnel or hire additional qualified personnel if and when needed. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, managerial and marketing personnel; in particular, David Hershberg, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Keith Hall, our President and Chief Operating Officer, are key to our success based upon their individual knowledge of the markets in which we operate. The employment of any of our key personnel could cease at any time. Satellites upon which we rely may malfunction or be damaged or lost. In the delivery of our services, we lease space segment from various satellite transponder vendors. The damage or loss of any of the satellites used by us, or the temporary or permanent malfunction of any of the satellites upon which we rely, would likely result in the interruption of our satellite-based communications services. This interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are our sole or a limited source of supply, and the loss of these suppliers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently obtain most of our critical components and services from limited sources and generally do not maintain significant inventories or have long-term or exclusive supply contracts with our vendors. We have from time to time experienced delays in receiving products from vendors due to lack of availability, quality control or manufacturing problems, shortages of materials or components or product design difficulties. We may experience delays in the future and replacement services or products may not be available when needed, or at all, or at commercially reasonable rates or prices. If we were to change some of our vendors, we would have to perform additional testing procedures on the service or product supplied by the new vendors, which would prevent or delay the availability of our products and services. Furthermore, our costs could increase significantly if we need to change vendors. If we do not receive timely deliveries of quality products and services, or if there are significant increases in the prices of these products or services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our network may experience security breaches, which could disrupt our services. Our network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks and similar disruptive problems caused by our customers or other Internet users. Computer viruses, break-ins, denial of service attacks or other problems caused by third parties could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation in service to our customers. There currently is no existing technology that provides absolute security. We may face liability to customers for such security breaches. Furthermore, these incidents could deter potential customers and adversely affect existing customer relationships. If the satellite communications industry fails to continue to develop or new technology makes it obsolete, our business and financial condition will be harmed. Our business is dependent on the continued success and development of satellite communications technology, which competes with terrestrial communications transport technologies like terrestrial microwave, coaxial cable and fiber optic communications systems. Fiber optic communications systems have penetrated areas in which we have traditionally provided services. If the satellite communications industry fails to continue to develop, or if any technological development significantly improves the cost or efficiency of competing terrestrial systems relative to satellite systems, then our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We may not be able to keep pace with technological changes, which would make our products and services become non-competitive and obsolete. The telecommunications industry, including satellite-based communications services, is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services in a timely manner or in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our products and services would become non-competitive and obsolete, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may damage our business. We regard our trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as beneficial to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may damage our business. We rely on trademark, trade secret and patent protection and contracts, including confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, strategic collaborators, consultants and others, to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without our authorization. We currently have been granted six patents, and have one patent and one provisional patent application pending in the United States. We currently have one Patent Cooperation Treaty patent application pending. We also intend to seek further patents on our technology, if appropriate. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued for any of our pending or future patent applications or that any claims allowed from such applications will be of sufficient scope, or be issued in all countries where our products and services can be sold, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Also, our competitors may be able to design around our patents. The laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and services or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products and services more likely. We have registered the trademarks Globecomm, GSI and Telaurus in the United States and various other countries, and the trademark Mach 6 in The Netherlands. We have various other trademarks and service marks registered or pending for registration in the United States and in other countries and may seek registration of other trademarks and service marks in the future. We cannot assure you that registrations will be granted from any of our pending or future applications, or that any registrations 22 Table of Contents that are granted will prevent others from using similar trademarks in connection with related goods and services. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time consuming and expensive, and if we are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. We cannot be sure that the products, services, technologies and advertising we employ in our business do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. Prosecuting infringers and defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time consuming and expensive, and regardless of whether we are or are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability and/or may materially disrupt the conduct of, or necessitate the cessation of, segments of our business. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. From July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010, our stock price ranged from a low of $6.34 per share to a high of $8.99 per share. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many telecommunications and high technology industry companies, could be subject to significant fluctuations and is likely to remain volatile based on many factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of new technology, products or services by us or any of our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • general market conditions; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. Additionally, numerous factors relating to our business may cause fluctuations or declines in our stock price. The stock markets in general and the markets for telecommunications stocks in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Because our common stock is thinly traded, it may be difficult to sell shares of our common stock into the markets without experiencing significant price volatility. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. Because of the relatively small number of shares that are traded, it may be difficult for an investor to find a purchaser for shares of our common stock without experiencing significant price volatility. We cannot guarantee that an active trading market will develop, that our common stock will have a higher trading volume than it has historically had or that it will maintain its current market price. This illiquidity could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. A third party could be prevented from acquiring shares of our stock at a premium to the market price because of our anti-takeover provisions. Various provisions with respect to votes in the election of directors, special meetings of stockholders, and advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State 23 Table of Contents of Delaware could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, we have entered into employment agreements with our senior executives that have change of control provisions that would add substantial costs to an acquisition of us by a third party. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects and other factors as the board of directors might deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Risks Related to Government Approvals We are subject to many government regulations, and failure to comply with them will harm our business. Operations and Use of Satellites We are subject to various federal laws and regulations, which may have negative effects on our business. We operate FCC licensed teleports in Hauppauge, New York, and Laurel, Maryland subject to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or the FCC Act, and the rules and regulations of the FCC. We cannot guarantee that the FCC will grant renewals when our existing licenses expire, nor are we assured that the FCC will not adopt new or modified technical requirements that will require us to incur expenditures to modify or upgrade our equipment as a condition of retaining our licenses. We are also required to comply with FCC regulations regarding the exposure of humans to radio frequency radiation from our teleports. These regulations, as well as local land use regulations, restrict our freedom to choose where to locate our teleports. In addition, prior to a third party acquisition of us, we would need to seek approval from the FCC to transfer the radio transmission licenses we have obtained to the third party upon the consummation of the acquisition. However, we cannot assure you that the FCC will permit the transfer of these licenses. These approvals may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Foreign Regulations Regulatory schemes in countries in which we may seek to provide our satellite-delivered services may impose impediments on our operations. Some countries in which we intend to operate have telecommunications laws and regulations that do not currently contemplate technical advances in telecommunications technology like Internet/intranet transmission by satellite. We cannot assure you that the present regulatory environment in any of those countries will not be changed in a manner that may have a material adverse impact on our business. Either we or our local partners typically must obtain authorization from each country in which we provide our satellite-delivered services. The regulatory schemes in each country are different, and thus there may be instances of noncompliance of which we are not aware. We cannot assure you that our licenses and approvals are or will remain sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that necessary licenses and approvals will be granted on a timely basis in all jurisdictions in which we wish to offer our products and services or that restrictions applicable thereto will not be unduly burdensome. Regulation of the Internet Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted at the local, national or international levels with respect to the Internet, covering issues including user privacy and expression, pricing of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, information security or the convergence of traditional communication services 24 Table of Contents with Internet communications. It is anticipated that a substantial portion of our Internet operations will be carried out in countries that may impose greater regulation of the content of information coming into the country than that which is generally applicable in the United States, including but not limited to privacy regulations in numerous European countries and content restrictions in countries such as the People’s Republic of China. To the extent that we provide content as a part of our Internet services, it will be subject to laws regulating content. Moreover, the adoption of laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our Internet services or increase our cost of doing business or in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the applicability of existing laws governing issues including property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, court jurisdiction and personal privacy to the Internet is uncertain. The vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, the laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes, could create uncertainty in the marketplace which could reduce demand for our products and services, could increase our cost of doing business as a result of costs of litigation or increased product development costs, or could in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Telecommunications Taxation, Support Requirements, and Access Charges Telecommunications carriers providing domestic services in the United States are required to contribute a portion of their gross revenues for the support of universal telecommunications services, telecommunications relay services for the deaf, and/or other regulatory fees. We are subject to some of these fees, and we may be subject to other fees or new or increased taxes and contribution requirements that could affect our profitability, particularly if we are not able to pass them through to customers for either competitive or regulatory reasons. Broadband Internet access services provided by telephone companies are currently classified as Information Services under the Communications Act and therefore not considered a telecommunications service subject to payment of access charges to local telephone companies in the United States. Should this situation change or other charges be imposed, the increased cost to our customers who use telephone-company provided facilities to connect with our satellite facilities could discourage the demand for our services. Likewise, the demand for our services in other countries could be affected by the availability and cost of local telephone or other telecommunications services required to connect with our facilities in those countries. Export of Telecommunications Equipment The sale of our infrastructure solutions outside the United States is subject to compliance with the United States Export Administration Regulations and, in certain circumstances, with the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, in order to ship our products into and implement our services in some countries, the products must satisfy the technical requirements of that particular country. If we were unable to comply with such requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in those countries could be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign Ownership We may, in the future, be required to seek FCC or other government approval if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain specified criteria. Failure to comply with these policies could result in an order to divest the offending foreign ownership, fines, denial of license renewal and/or license revocation proceedings against the licensee by the FCC, or denial of certain contracts from other United States government agencies. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 