Risk Factors." Communications Infrastructure We built and own the teleport facility located at our headquarters in Hauppauge, New York. We are a member of the World Teleport Association (WTA). Our teleport is designed to meet stringent requirements for high-speed data communications. This teleport is used to transmit and receive signals from satellites positioned to serve customers in Latin America, the United States, Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our teleport uses redundant critical systems and uninterruptible power supplies with back-up power generation. We also lease teleport services in Los Angeles to transmit and receive signals from satellites positioned to serve customers in the Pacific Rim region. Connection to the United States Internet backbone in Los Angeles is achieved through leased fiber optic circuits. We lease transponder capacity to meet the bandwidth needs of our customers. We lease multiple, redundant, high-capacity fiber connections to provide reliable Internet data, voice and data traffic to locations in New York City where it interconnects with telecommunications service providers and the United States Internet backbone. We have built and staff a network operations center, or NOC, to manage customer circuits. The NOC operates twenty-four hours per day, seven days per week to monitor customer circuits, respond to customer inquiries and initiate new services. Customers can purchase or lease from us, as a part of its service, the equipment needed at the customers' locations to transmit and receive the satellite signals. We also offer installation and maintenance services for this equipment. Product Design, Assembly and Testing We assign a project team to each contract into which we enter. Each team is led by a project engineer who is responsible for execution of the project. This includes engineering and design, assembly and testing, installation and customer acceptance. A project may include engineers, integration specialists, buyer-planners and an operations team. Our standard satellite ground segment systems are manufactured using a standard modular production process. Typically, long-term projects require significant customer-specific engineering, drafting and design efforts. Once the system is designed, the integration specialist 6 works with the buyer-planner and the operations team to assure a smooth transfer from the engineering phase to the integration phase. The integration phase consists mainly of integrating the purchased equipment, components and subsystems into a complete functioning system. Assembly, integration and test operations are conducted on both an automated and manual basis. We provide facilities for complete in-plant testing of all our systems before delivery in order to assure all performance specifications will be met during installation at the customer's site. We employ formal total quality management programs and other training programs, and have been certified by the International Organization of Standards quality certification process for ISO 9001, a standard that enumerates specific requirements an organization must follow in order to assure consistent quality in the supply of products and services. The certification process qualifies us for access to virtually all domestic and international projects, and we believe that this represents a competitive advantage. Research and Development We have developed internal research and development resources in Internet protocol networks, content delivery networks, broadcast systems, network management systems and system products. The costs of developing new technologies are funded partially by the investments made by us and partially by development funded by specific customer program requirements. This approach provides us with a cost-effective means to develop new technology, while minimizing our direct research and development expenditures. Furthermore, we believe that our research and development capabilities allow us to offer added value in developing solutions for our customers, while at the same time we maintain the opportunity to develop products through our strategic supplier relationships. Our internal research and development efforts generally focus on the development of products and services not available from other suppliers to the industry. Current efforts are focused on developing content delivery network services for our enterprise customers, broadcast systems technology for our broadcast customers, network management system products for all our earth terminal and network customers and customizable systems for our government customers. For the years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we have incurred approximately $1.0 million, $1.3 million, and $0.8 million, respectively, in internal research and development expenses. Competition In the satellite ground segment systems and networks market, we believe that our ability to compete successfully is based primarily on management's reputation and the ability to provide a solution that meets the customer's requirements, including competitive pricing, performance, on-time delivery, reliability and customer support. In the communications services market, we believe that our ability to compete successfully is based primarily on our reputation and providing prompt delivery and initiation of service, competitive pricing, consistent and reliable connections and high-quality customer support. Our primary competitors in the satellite ground segment systems and networks market generally fall into two groups: (1) system integrators like ITT, Data Path and Global Communication Solutions and (2) equipment manufacturers who also provide integrated systems, like Andrew Corporation, Viasat, General Dynamics, Alcatel and ND Satcom AG. In the end-to-end satellite-based enterprise solutions and broadcast services markets, we compete with other satellite communication companies who provide similar services, like Ascent, Globecast, and Convergent Media Systems. In addition, in managed network services we may compete with other communications services providers like Segovia and AT&T, and satellite owners like Panamsat, Loral Skynet, New Skies Satellites N.V. and Intelsat. We anticipate that our competitors may develop or acquire services that provide functionality that is similar to that provided by our services and that those services may be offered at significantly lower prices or bundled with other services. In addition, we anticipate that continuing deregulation worldwide is expected to result in the formation of a significant number of new competitive service providers over the next few years. Current and potential participants in the markets in which we compete have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. These cooperative relationships may increase the ability of their products and services to address the needs of our current and 7 prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge that will enable them to acquire significant market share rapidly. We believe that increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Intellectual Property We rely heavily on the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, computer programs and designs, frequent product enhancements, reliable product support and proprietary technological expertise in maintaining our competitive position. We have secured patent protection on some of our products, and have secured trademarks and service marks to protect some of our products and services. We currently have been granted three patents in the United States, one for remote access to the Internet using satellites, another for satellite communication with automatic frequency control and one for a monitor and control system for satellite communications networks and the like. We have two other patents pending in the United States, one for implementing facsimile and data communications using Internet protocols and another for a distributed satellite-based cellular network. We currently have one Patent Cooperation Treaty patent application pending for implementing facsimile and data communications using Internet protocols. We also intend to seek additional patents on our technology, if appropriate. We have received trademark registration for Globecomm Systems Inc. in the United States, the European Community, Russia and the People's Republic of China; for GSI in the United States and Russia; and for NetSat Express in the United States, the European Community, Russia, Singapore and Brazil. We have also received trademark registrations in the United States for Wide Area Network Anywhere, MBB2001, CTF 2001, CES 2001 and Axxsys, which relate to our customizable modular earth stations; for Impact, which relates to our customizable ISP solutions; and for the GSI and NetSat logos. We have other trademarks and service marks pending and intend to seek registration of other trademarks and service marks in the future. Government Regulations Operations and Use of Satellites We are subject to various federal laws and regulations, which may have negative effects on our business. We operate Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licensed earth stations in Hauppauge, New York, subject to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or the FCC Act, and the rules and regulations of the FCC. Pursuant to the FCC Act and FCC rules and regulations, we have obtained and are required to maintain radio transmission licenses from the FCC for both domestic and foreign operations of our earth stations. We have also obtained and are required to maintain authorization issued under Section 214 of the FCC Act to act as a telecommunications carrier, which authorization also extends to GNSC. These licenses should be renewed by the FCC in the normal course as long as we remain in compliance with FCC rules and regulations. However, we cannot guarantee that additional licenses will be granted by the FCC when our existing licenses expire, nor can we assure you that the FCC will not adopt new or modified technical requirements that will require us to incur expenditures to modify or upgrade our equipment as a condition of retaining our licenses. We are also required to comply with FCC regulations regarding the exposure of humans to radio frequency radiation from our earth stations. These regulations, as well as local land use regulations, restrict our freedom to choose where to locate our earth stations. The licenses and authorizations held by Globecomm extend to GNSC and GNSC currently provides services in accordance with the requirements of the Globecomm licenses and authorizations. GNSC may in the future seek to obtain licenses and/or authorizations to provide services in its own name, however, we cannot guarantee that such additional licenses and authorizations will be granted by the FCC. Common Carrier Regulation We currently provide services to our customers on a private carrier and on a common carrier basis. Our operations as a common carrier require us to comply with the FCC's requirements for common 8 carriers. These requirements include, but are not limited to, providing our rates and service terms, being forbidden from unjust and unreasonable discrimination among customers, notifying the FCC before discontinuing service and complying with FCC equal employment opportunity regulations and reporting requirements. We do not currently provide telecommunications services between points in the same state and so are exempt from state regulation of our services. However, we could become subject to state telecommunications regulations if we do provide intrastate telecommunications services. Foreign Ownership The FCC Act and FCC regulations impose restrictions on foreign ownership of our earth stations. These requirements generally forbid more than 20% ownership or control of an FCC licensee by non-United States citizens and more than 25% ownership of a licensee's parent by non-United States citizens. The FCC may authorize foreign ownership in the licensee's parent in excess of these percentages. Under current policies, the FCC has granted these authorizations where the applicant does not control monopoly or bottleneck facilities and the foreign owners are citizens of countries that are members of the World Trade Organization or provide equivalent competitive opportunities to United States citizens. We may, in the future, be required to seek FCC approval if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds the thresholds mentioned above. Failure to comply with these policies could result in an order to divest the offending foreign ownership, fines, denial of license renewal and/or license revocation proceedings against the licensee by the FCC. We have no knowledge of any present foreign ownership which would result in a violation of the FCC rules and regulations. Foreign Regulations Regulatory schemes in countries in which we may seek to provide our satellite-delivered data communications services may impose impediments on our operations. Some countries in which we operate or intend to operate have telecommunications laws and regulations that do not currently contemplate technical advances in telecommunications technology like Internet/intranet transmission by satellite. We cannot assure you that the present regulatory environment in any of those countries will not be changed in a manner which may have a material adverse impact on our business. Either we or our local sales representatives typically must obtain authorization for each country in which we provide our satellite-delivered data communications services. Although we believe that we or our local sales representatives will be able to obtain the requisite licenses and approvals from the countries in which we intend to provide products and services, the regulatory schemes in each country are different, and thus there may be instances of noncompliance of which we are not aware. Although we believe these regulatory schemes will not prevent us from pursuing our business plan, we cannot assure you that our licenses and approvals are or will remain sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that necessary licenses and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to offer our products and services or that the applicable restrictions will not be unduly burdensome. Regulation of the Internet Our Internet operations (other than the operation of a teleport) are not currently subject to direct government regulation in the United States or most other countries, and there are currently few laws or regulations directly applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted at the local, national or international levels with respect to the Internet, covering issues like user privacy and expression, pricing of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, information security or the convergence of traditional communication services with Internet communications. We anticipate that a substantial portion of our Internet operations will be carried out in countries which may impose greater regulation of the content of information coming into their country than that which is generally applicable in the United States. Examples of this include privacy regulations in Europe and content restrictions in countries, such as the People's Republic of China. To the extent that we provide content as a part of our Internet services, it will be subject to laws regulating content. Moreover, the 9 adoption of laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our Internet services, or increase our cost of doing business or otherwise negatively affect our business. In addition, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues including property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel and personal privacy is uncertain. The vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes, could create uncertainty in the marketplace. These changes could reduce demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of doing business as a result of costs of litigation or increased product development costs. Telecommunications Taxation, Support Requirements and Access Charges All telecommunications carriers providing domestic services in the United States are required to contribute a portion of their gross revenues for the support of universal telecommunications services. Some telecommunications services are subject to special taxation and to contribution requirements to support services to special groups, like persons with disabilities. Our services may be subject to new or increased taxes and contribution requirements that could affect our profitability, particularly if we are not able to pass them through to customers for either competitive or regulatory reasons. Internet services are currently exempt from charges that long distance telephone companies pay for access to the networks of local telephone companies in the United States. Efforts have been made from time to time, and may be made in the future, to eliminate this exemption. If these access charges are imposed on telephone lines used to reach ISPs and/or if flat rate telephone services for Internet access are eliminated or curtailed, the cost to customers who access our satellite facilities using telephone company-provided facilities could increase to an extent that could discourage the demand for our services. Likewise, the demand for our services in other countries may be affected by the availability and cost of local telephone or other telecommunications facilities to reach our facilities or the facilities of our customers. Export of Telecommunications Equipment The sale of our ground segment systems, networks, and communications service solutions outside the United States is subject to compliance with the regulations of the United States Export Administration and, in certain instances, with International Traffic in Arms regulations. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, in order to ship our products into or implement our services in some countries, these products or services must satisfy the technical requirements of the particular country. If we were unable to comply with these requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in those countries could be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Employees As of June 30, 2005, we had 163 full-time employees, including 77 in engineering and program management, 42 in the manufacturing, operations support and network operations, 14 in sales and marketing and 30 in management and administration. Our employees are not covered by any collective-bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Available information We maintain an Internet website at www.globecommsystems.com where our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to these reports and all other SEC documents are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable following the time that they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 