ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. Please also see "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page 19. If we are unable to obtain future orders for our vehicles, products or services, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected and our business may fail. Substantially all of our revenue comes from our U.S. and Foreign Military Sales contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to another prime contractor to the U.S., or direct commercial sales contracts to foreign governments. We received and fulfilled substantial orders for products and services to upgrade or maintain our vehicles from the U.S. and Foreign Military Sales customers under the MRAP program, which accounted for a majority of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2009. In 2009, we also received and fulfilled a large direct commercial sales 20 Table of Contents contract with the U.K. Ministry of Defence for our Wolfhound vehicle. These orders have resulted, in significant part, from the particular combat situations encountered by the military forces in Iraq and transition to Afghanistan. We cannot be certain of the degree to which military users will continue to place orders, and these orders may decrease significantly or cease. The main uncertainty about our future operations is whether we will continue to receive additional orders or contracts for our vehicles, products, services or our survivability solutions. We have no substantial orders for vehicles to fulfill at this time under the MRAP competitive contract, although we do have orders for products and services. Orders for our Buffalo and Cougar variant vehicles will allow us to continue production through the third quarter of 2010. It is impossible to predict with certainty whether such future orders or contracts will be placed by existing or new customers. If we do not receive future orders or contracts for production beyond such dates, it is unlikely that our vehicle business will continue and our business will be materially affected. Even if we are successful in obtaining contracts, the length of the contract cycle, from testing, pre-production to the delivery of the order when revenue is recognized, may span several months to years. We rely on sales to the U.S. government, and a failure to obtain new contracts or a reduction of sales under existing contracts with the U.S. government could adversely affect our operating performance and our ability to generate cash flow to fund our operations. The continuation and renewal of contracts with the U.S. government are contingent upon the availability of governmental funding, which may be unpredictable. Presently, we derive a majority of our revenue from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government and its agencies, primarily the U.S. Department of Defense. We expect that U.S. and foreign government contracts will continue to be our main source of revenue for the foreseeable future. The continuation and renewal of our existing contracts and new contracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate funding from various U.S. government and foreign agencies. Changes in U.S. and foreign government spending could directly affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. Our U.S. government contracts are also subject to continual approval and funding. Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated or adversely modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. Federal government contracts generally contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that provide the federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the federal government to, among other provisions: terminate our existing contracts for convenience; unilaterally modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; subject the award to protest or challenge by competitors; suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related delivery orders; and claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. We may start to complete work for a contract that is eventually terminated, which may cause us to incur expenses for which we are not reimbursed, and we may incur losses. Given the ability of the federal government to unilaterally terminate a contract, we experience more uncertainty with respect to the fulfillment of our orders, which may make our forecasts more unpredictable. As a result, our backlog is subject to uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we will deliver or receive payment for the vehicles we have included in our backlog. 21 Table of Contents Many of our orders are subject to the competitive bidding process, which we may not win, and we may incur expenses that we are unable to recoup, creating losses. We have received certain contract awards through the competitive bidding process and may continue to do so in the future. However, the competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including bidding against large and established government contractors with substantially greater resources. Competitive bidding also involves costs which may not be recouped, cost overruns, or awards subject to bid protest. Also, due to the commercial nature of many vehicle components, we compete with established commercial vehicle suppliers and component original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") for spare part sales. As a result, we may incur losses, which could adversely affect our business. Our business may be materially affected if we are unable to anticipate the demand for and sale of next generation vehicles, products or services to meet the demands of our customers, and our net sales may decline. The future of our business depends on our ability to anticipate threats to the survivability of friendly forces and to develop, test, and be able to produce solutions to counter these threats in a manner that satisfies the cost, performance, and schedule demands of our customers. Prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that our current products do not have. We may be unable to respond quickly or effectively to these developments. To the extent that our customers seek additional survivability solutions, we expect to face substantial competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do, in competing for these orders. Accordingly, if we are unable to develop and design acceptable vehicles, products or services in time to meet the demands of our customers, our net sales may decline in the future. In addition, the introduction of new products by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards, or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing product offerings could render our existing or future products obsolete. If our products become technologically obsolete, customers may purchase solutions from our competitors and we may be unable to sell our products in the marketplace and generate revenue which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In response to competitive opportunities or to meet customer demands, we may start the development and manufacture of certain of our products for which we may not have orders and may incur losses. At times, if we believe that there is a probability of selling certain of our vehicles or products, we may commence the manufacture and production of such items without orders. We have in the past, and may do so in the future, commence the development and manufacture of our vehicles and products, and incur expenses for components, raw materials, and other expenses without any orders from customers. We may experience difficulties, expenses and delays in starting up production for these vehicles if we have no prior experience in manufacturing such vehicles and products in commercial quantities and it may take a substantial period of time for us and our employees to achieve requisite efficiencies in producing such vehicles or products. In the event that we do not receive orders for these vehicles or products, we may have excess inventory and incur losses, and, as a result, our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows may be affected. 22 Table of Contents We rely on joint ventures, teaming agreements, subcontractors and suppliers to manufacture, perform some of the assembly of our vehicles, or supply products. The loss of any critical partner could delay our manufacturing operations, which could affect our ability to meet our contract delivery requirements to our customers. We have in the past, and anticipate in the future, increased outsourcing of the manufacture of our vehicles or products. If any of our selected partners, subcontractors and suppliers cease doing business with us or fail to perform, we would have to develop new sources or perform the work ourselves. In the event that we are unable to obtain required products or services from our existing partners, subcontractors or suppliers, and if we are unable to mitigate the impact or find alternate sources in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our vehicles and provide repairs and sustainment, and, as a result, our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows may be affected. Our limited control over our joint ventures, partners and subcontractors may delay or prevent us from implementing our business strategy which may adversely affect our financial results. We are currently party to joint ventures, subcontracts, teaming agreements and joint development arrangements with several partners, some of which are competitors. We may also enter into additional arrangements in the future. Because we have shared control over our joint ventures and limited control over our partners and subcontractors, we may not be able to require them to take actions that we believe are necessary to implement our business strategy. If our partners or subcontractors fail to fulfill their obligations, we could be responsible to the customer and would have to rely on our ability to obtain reimbursement from our partner or subcontractor for our costs, over and above any reimbursement which may be due from the customer. Obtaining such reimbursement could require us to engage in litigation and could take a substantial amount of time and could require us to expend significant resources. If our partner or subcontractor becomes insolvent or ceases operations, we might not be able to obtain reimbursement. Accordingly, this limited control could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our configuration management process for our fielded fleet is still maturing and may result in inadequate delivery of service and repair parts which may decrease our ability to generate life cycle revenue. As a result of the rapid deployment and production demand for our vehicles by the U.S. military in Iraq and Afghanistan, we have not been able to fully develop technical data packages and establish our service parts documentation for configuration control for all of our vehicles. As a result, we may lose business opportunities for some aftermarket part orders, such as spare parts, and training and field service support, and we could be late or delayed in accepting and delivering aftermarket orders, and our future revenue may be negatively impacted. Our business may be adversely affected by the severe and rapid downturn in the economy. Recently, there has been a severe and rapid downturn in the economy due to a variety of financial conditions. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the effects of these conditions on our business. These conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast, plan and execute certain future business activities. Due to the recent credit crisis and volatility of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, our products may become more expensive for customers whose purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars, which may further disadvantage us relative to our competitors or negatively impact our margins. 23 Table of Contents Changes in the pace of operations in Iraq or Afghanistan or the duration of involvement by the U.S. military and foreign militaries in areas of conflict could have an impact on contracts for our vehicles, spare parts and sustainment services. As a result, we may have unexpected revenue shortfalls. Political pressure, the success of the current operations, changes in tactics of the insurgency, and other factors make it difficult to ascertain customer requirements. The challenging economic environment and potential changes in defense spending by the U.S. government may have an adverse impact on the number and volume of future orders placed for our products and services, which could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations. We are expanding international operations, which subjects us to additional business risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Expanding international sales and operations is a part of our growth strategy. In 2009, we established a wholly-owned subsidiary and a joint venture in the United Kingdom and began operations in Kuwait. International operations and sales are subject to various risks, including foreign currency, political, economic, trade barriers, foreign government regulations and taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries in connection with starting up international manufacturing operations that could cause a loss. Failure of performance could impact revenue and result in contract disputes. In addition, we are subject to export control regulations, including, without limitation, the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may make acquisitions, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We may enter into acquisitions in the future in an effort to enhance shareholder value. While we do not have any present plans to acquire businesses, technologies or services, we may enter into such arrangements in the future in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share. We do not have any experience in completing an acquisition. Acquisitions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. With respect to acquisitions, such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses' markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. In addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions of production that are beyond our control. Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions in our manufacturing and delivery performance. Such suppliers may be less likely than our own facilities to be able to quickly recover from such events, or may not be able to recover, which would subject us to additional delays and difficulty conducting our operations. 24 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other related provisions of the U.S. securities laws and in the past we have restated our condensed consolidated financial statements and other financial information for the periods ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007. If we have additional ineffective internal controls or restatements of our financial statements, they may result in potential and current shareholders losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect perceptions of our Company and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We have a limited history of maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and due to such limited history, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain effective systems of internal controls in the future. In prior years, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, in part because of these material weaknesses, we also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. To the extent that we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports and public disclosure, detect and prevent fraud and comply with the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws, on a timely basis. Any such failure could harm our business. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and public disclosure, which in turn could cause customers and investors to lose confidence in our business. Our previous material weaknesses and significant deficiencies resulted in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. Although we believe we have adequately corrected our significant deficiencies, we may still be subject to risks associated with our prior significant deficiencies. In addition, we restated our condensed consolidated financial statements and other financial information for the periods ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007 and filed separate amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to reflect the restated condensed consolidated financial statements for such periods. We also previously amended our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and restated our consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. Additional amendments and restatements to our financial statements may result in potential and current shareholders losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the market price of our stock. We are subject to and may continue to be subject to lawsuits alleging false or misleading public statements and/or omissions concerning our business, internal controls and financial results. We are subject to shareholder class action and derivative lawsuits, which have been initiated for damages to recompense those who purchased or otherwise acquired our securities. The causes of actions include, but are not limited to, allegations that certain former members of management and the Board of Directors violated the Exchange Act and made false or misleading public statements or omissions concerning our business, internal controls, and financial results. See more detail in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. It is possible that other litigants may institute additional lawsuits against us as a result of these alleged deficiencies seeking the payment of damages. These lawsuits are likely to be costly to defend and could involve the substantial diversion of management time and resources and 25 Table of Contents have other adverse effects, and we may be required to make substantial payments to settle any such lawsuits or to satisfy any judgments that may be rendered against us. The DCAA continues to audit certain of our price proposals and indirect rate submissions as required by the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). As a result, the DCAA could question or disallow our proposed costs under some of our government contracts, and our profits may be adversely affected. U.S. government agencies, generally through the DCAA, routinely audit and monitor government contracts and government contractors' administrative processes and systems. The audits may review the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. The auditor may also review our compliance with applicable laws, government regulations, policies and standards as they relate to cost issues and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies. An adverse finding under a DCAA audit could result in the disallowance of our costs under a U.S. government contract. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, responding to governmental audits may involve significant expense and divert management attention. Presently, all of our contracts are on a fixed-price basis, which could subject us to losses if there are cost overruns. Under a fixed-price contract, we receive only the amount indicated in the contract, regardless of the actual cost to produce the goods. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from potential cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. If the estimates we use to calculate the contract price or the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to schedule and performance, which may result in penalties for failure to perform. As a result, we could incur losses which would adversely affect our business. We may require additional capital to provide for our working capital needs. We may require additional capital for our business needs. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources, contained elsewhere herein. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. The credit markets and the financial services industry continue to experience a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the federal government. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we were to lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to recruit qualified managers and key personnel in the future. Our success depends on the continued service of our management team and certain key personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing managers and employees or hire and integrate new personnel, we may experience operating inefficiencies, production delays and reduced profitability or losses. We must comply with export control laws, foreign corrupt practices, numerous miscellaneous federal national security laws, regulations, and procedures, as well as the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business. We are subject to export and import licensing requirements with respect to the marketing and sales, testing, service and support in foreign countries of our vehicles, products and services. In addition, we are obligated to comply with a variety of federal, state and local regulations, both domestically and abroad, governing certain aspects of our international sales and support. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to the FCPA and other laws which prohibit improper payments to foreign governments and their officials by U.S. and other business entities. Our operations in such countries create the risk of an unauthorized payment by one of our employees or agents which would be in violation of various laws including the FCPA. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts including FAR and similar foreign government regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government and foreign governments. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs, and non-compliance may also allow for the assignment of fines and penalties, including liquidated contractual damages. We are subject to industrial security regulations of the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners' access to classified information. As we continue to expand our operations internationally, we are subject to the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, we could lose our facility security clearances, which could result in our federal government customers terminating or deciding not to renew our contracts, and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. We are presently subject to a number of legal proceedings and claims and we may become subject to additional legal proceedings and claims in the future. We have been subject to a variety of lawsuits, including claims involving the use of our confidential information and trade secrets, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission claims, contractual claims, claims related to our common shares, and OSHA claims. Such claims and regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of money for legal defense, human resources and senior management time to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. If, as a result of any proceedings, a settlement is reached, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to adequately safeguard our intellectual property rights and trade secrets from unauthorized use, and we may become subject to claims that we infringe on others' intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and other intellectual property laws, licensing agreements, nondisclosure agreements with employees, subcontractors, partners and suppliers and other protective measures to preserve our proprietary rights to our products and production processes. Our pending patent applications may not be granted by the various patent offices examining them. Even if our patent applications are granted and issued as patents, these measures afford only limited protection and may not preclude competitors from developing products or processes similar or superior to ours. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Furthermore, third parties may assert that our products or processes infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights could be expensive, require management's attention and might not bring us timely or effective relief. Compliance with increasing environmental regulations and the effects of potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse financial effect on us. We, like other industry participants, are subject to various federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations. Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of 27 Table of Contents certain regulated materials and wastes. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations in both the U.S. and abroad. We may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly as climate change initiatives increase in focus. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate change matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of shares of blank check preferred stock. Under the terms of our articles of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without any need for approval by our shareholders but subject to any limitations prescribed by law, shares of our preferred stock in one or more series. Each series shall consist of such number of shares and have the rights, preferences, powers and restrictions, such as dividend rights and preferences, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation rights and preferences, as our Board of Directors shall determine. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock with voting, conversion or other rights that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and that could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Our stock price has been volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility, and this trend may continue. For example, in the last quarter of fiscal year 2009, the price of our common stock ranged from $4.29 to $6.30. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting our market price include, but are not limited to, our failure to meet expectations regarding new orders or sales of our vehicles; differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; announcements of new contracts or orders by us or our competitors; and market reaction to any future acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors. Recent events have caused stock prices for many companies, including ours, to fluctuate in ways unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. The general economic, political and stock market conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial markets has had and may continue to have an impact on our stock price. The market price of our common stock at any particular time may not remain the market price in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Nevada Corporation Law, could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current Board of Directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As discussed above, our Board of Directors is empowered to issue preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval. Any issuance of this "blank check" preferred stock could materially limit the rights of holders of the common stock and render more difficult or discourage an 28 Table of Contents attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. In addition, our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain a number of provisions that could impede a takeover or change in control of us, including our staggered board, limitation on the ability of our shareholders to act by written consent, advance notice provisions and the ability for the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy on our Board of Directors. Certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law could also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by our Board of Directors or shareholders. These provisions relate to, among other things, the acquisition of a controlling interest in a Nevada corporation meeting certain requirements or certain business combinations and other transactions between a Nevada corporation and certain "interested stockholders." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 