Item 1A Risk Factors — “We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products.” and “Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business.” To distinguish genuine Logitech products from competing products and counterfeit products, Logitech has used, registered, or applied to register certain trademarks and trade names in the U.S. and in foreign countries and jurisdictions. Logitech enforces its trademark and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, the software for Logitech’s products and services is entitled to copyright protection, and we generally require our customers to obtain a software license before providing them with that software. We also protect details about our products and services as trade secrets through employee training, license and non-disclosure agreements and technical measures. Environmental Regulation We are subject to laws and regulations in many jurisdictions regulating the materials used in our products and, increasingly, product related energy consumption, the recycling of our products and of their packaging. Europe. In Europe we are subject to the EU’s (European Union’s) Directive on RoHS (Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Equipment). This directive restricts the placement into the EU market of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous materials including lead, 17 Table of Contents mercury, cadmium, chromium, and halogenated flame-retardants. Most Logitech products are covered by the directive and have been modified, if necessary, to be RoHS compliant. Logitech has an active program to ensure compliance with the RoHS directive and continues to source and introduce the use of RoHS compliant components and manufacturing methods in order to comply with the requirements of the directive. Logitech is also subject to the EU’s ErP (Energy-related Products Directive), which aims to encourage manufacturers and importers to produce products designed to minimize overall environmental impact. Under the directive, manufacturers must ensure that their energy-related products comply with applicable requirements, issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the ‘CE’ mark. The directive does not have binding requirements for specific products, but does define conditions and criteria for setting, through subsequent implementing measures, requirements regarding environmentally relevant product characteristics. To date the following implementing measures within the ErP directive are active and applicable to Logitech products: • 1275/2008: Eco-design requirements for standby and off mode electric power consumption of electrical and electronic household and office equipment. • 278/2009: Eco-design requirements for no-load condition power consumption and average active efficiency of external power supplies. Logitech has assessed the applicability of these implementing measures on relevant product lines and has taken steps to ensure that our products meet the requirements. Adoption of the ErP directive will be aligned in all EU member states and conformity will be demonstrated by Logitech in conjunction with current CE conformity marking requirements. Similar requirements exist in the four member states of the European Free Trade Association (Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland). Such requirements are substantially met by compliance with ErP. We are also subject to a number of EOL (End of Life) Stewardship directives including the EU’s WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Directive, the EU Packaging Directive and the EU Battery Directive, which require producers of electrical goods, packaging and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging and batteries. Logitech has also assessed the applicability of the European REACH directive (Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restrictions of Chemicals). This directive does not currently impact Logitech due to our current manufacturing structure and product content. If the directive impacts Logitech in the future, we intend to comply with the applicable requirements. China. In China we are subject to China’s law on Management Methods on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products (China RoHS). This is substantially similar to the EU RoHS directive and as such, Logitech products are already compliant. China RoHS requires additional labelling of product that will be shipped in China and Logitech has taken steps to help ensure we comply with these requirements. United States and Canada. In the U.S., we are subject to, among other laws, Appliance Efficiency Regulations adopted via the U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of Logitech’s products. The standards apply to appliances sold or offered for sale throughout the U.S., and Logitech has redesigned or changed products to comply with these regulations. We are also subject to California’s Proposition 65, which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the state of California to be dangerous, such as lead. Logitech is also subject to the requirement as set out by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, specifically Section 1502, which addresses the use of “Conflict Minerals” in the supply chain. We intend to comply with the reporting requirements of this Act on receipt of guidelines to be published by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 18 Table of Contents In Canada, we are subject to laws in various Canadian provinces that impose fees to cover the cost of recycling packaging. Australia and New Zealand. In Australia and New Zealand, we are subject to the MEPS (Minimum Energy Performance Standards) regulations. These regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of Logitech’s products. We have taken steps to modify products to ensure they are in compliance with MEPS. We expect further laws governing product and packaging recycling to be introduced in other jurisdictions, many or most of which could impose fees to cover recycling costs, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. If such legislation is enacted in other countries, Logitech intends to develop compliance programs as necessary. However, until that time, we are not able to estimate any possible impact. The effects on Logitech’s business of complying with other government regulations are limited to the cost of allocation of the appropriate resources for agency fees and testing as well as the time required to obtain agency approvals. There are also stewardship costs associated with the end of life collection, recycling and recovery of Logitech products, packaging and batteries where Logitech is recognized as the steward and participates in relevant schemes. The costs and schedule requirements are industry requirements and therefore do not represent an undue burden relative to Logitech’s competitive position. As regulations change, we will seek to modify our products or processes to address those changes. Seasonality Our retail peripheral product sales are typically seasonal. Sales are generally highest during our third fiscal quarter (October to December), due primarily to the increased demand for our products during the year-end holiday buying season, and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter (January to March). Our sales in the first and second quarters can vary significantly as a result of new product introductions and other factors. Accordingly, we believe that year-over-year comparisons are more indicative of variability in our results of operations than current quarter to prior quarter comparisons. Our video conferencing product sales experience minor seasonality. Sales are generally strongest during our third fiscal quarter due primarily to expiring budgets in the business community. Sales are generally lower during our fourth fiscal quarter, as annual business budgets may not be finalized until late in the quarter. Materials We purchase certain products and key components used in our products from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers, optical sensors and LifeSize hardware products, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed. In addition, lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs. Employees As of March 31, 2011, we employed approximately 11,000 people. None of Logitech’s U.S. employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Certain foreign countries, such as China, provide by law for employee rights, which include requirements similar to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. 19 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of May 25, 2011: Name Age Nationality Position Guerrino De Luca 58 Italian Chairman of the Board Gerald P. Quindlen 51 U.S. President and Chief Executive Officer Erik Bardman 44 U.S. Sr. Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Werner Heid 52 German Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing Junien Labrousse 53 French Executive Vice President, Products and President, Logitech Europe L. Joseph Sullivan 57 U.S. Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Operations Guerrino De Luca has served as Chairman of the Logitech Board of Directors since January 2008. Previously, Mr. De Luca served as Logitech’s President and Chief Executive Officer from February 1998, when he joined the Company, to January 2008. He has been an executive member of the Board of Directors since June 1998. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. De Luca served as Executive Vice President of Worldwide Marketing for Apple Inc. from February 1997 to September 1997, and as President of Claris Corporation, a U.S. personal computing software vendor, from May 1994 to February 1997. Prior to joining Claris, Mr. De Luca held various positions with Apple in the United States and in Europe. Mr. De Luca holds a BS degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Rome, Italy. Gerald P. Quindlen has been Logitech’s President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2008, previously serving as Logitech’s Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing since he joined the Company in October 2005. From August 1987 to September 2004, Mr. Quindlen worked for Eastman Kodak Company where he was most recently Vice President of Global Sales and Operations for the Consumer and Professional Imaging Division and previously held senior sales or marketing management positions in the United States, Japan and Asia Pacific. From September 2004 to September 2005, Mr. Quindlen was a private consultant. Prior to his 17 year tenure at Eastman Kodak, he worked for Mobil Oil Corporation in engineering. Mr. Quindlen holds a BS degree in chemical engineering from Villanova University in Pennsylvania, and an MBA degree in Finance from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School. Erik Bardman joined Logitech as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in October 2009. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Bardman served as a financial consultant to Zillion TV, an interactive television service company. Previously, he had been with eBay from 2003 to 2008, most recently as the chief financial officer for eBay Marketplaces, the company’s largest portfolio of businesses. At eBay, Mr. Bardman led a large global team focused on financial strategy, acquisitions, resource allocation and performance analysis. Prior to joining eBay, Mr. Bardman was with General Electric Company for 15 years in a variety of roles, developing broad expertise in consumer financial services, international finance and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Bardman earned a BA degree from Dickinson College in Pennsylvania, with a major in history and a minor in economics. He is a graduate of GE’s Financial Management Program. Werner Heid joined Logitech as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales & Marketing, in February 2009. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Heid was a consultative CEO to private equity firms from 2006 to 2009. Previously, he served as the president and chief executive officer of Iomega Corporation, a provider of consumer and small-business data-storage solutions, from 2001 to 2006. Before joining Iomega, Mr. Heid was the executive vice president of global sales, marketing and service for InFocus Corporation, a supplier of multimedia projection systems for consumers and business, from 2000 to 2001. He joined InFocus when it acquired Proxima Corporation, where Mr. Heid served as president from 1998 to 2000. Prior to taking on his leadership role at Proxima, Mr. Heid was with Hewlett-Packard Company for 14 years, in both Europe and the United States. At Hewlett-Packard, he led the business definition and the successful global market launch of the company’s All-In-One and color copier product businesses. Mr. Heid holds a masters degree in electrical engineering from University Karlsruhe in Germany. 20 Table of Contents Junien Labrousse joined Logitech as Vice President of the Video Division in 1997. He was named Senior Vice President, Video Business Unit in April 2001, Senior Vice President, Entertainment and Communications in July 2005 and Executive Vice President, Products in March 2007. In September, 2010, Mr. Labrousse was also named President, Logitech Europe. Prior to joining Logitech, he was Vice President of Engineering from 1995 to 1997 at Winnov LP, a U.S. company engaged in the development and marketing of multimedia products. For more than 10 years he held several engineering and management positions at Royal Philips Electronics NV, a global electronics company, in research and in the semiconductor business division. Mr. Labrousse holds an MS degree in Electrical Engineering from the Ecole Superieure d’Ingenieurs de Marseille, France and an MBA degree from Santa Clara University in California. L. Joseph Sullivan joined Logitech in October 2005 as Vice President, Operations Strategy, and was appointed Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations in April 2006. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Sullivan was Vice President of Operational Excellence and Quality for Carrier Corporation, a subsidiary of United Technologies, from 2001 to 2005. Previously, he was with ACCO Brands, Inc. in engineering and manufacturing management roles from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Sullivan holds a BS degree in Marketing Management and an MBA degree in Operations Management from Suffolk University in Massachusetts. Available Information Our Investor Relations Web site is located at http://ir.logitech.com. We post and maintain an archive of our earnings and other press releases, current reports, annual and quarterly reports, earnings release schedule, information regarding annual general meetings, further information on corporate governance, and other information regarding the Company on the Investor Relations Web site. The information we post includes filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, our proxy statement related to our annual shareholders’ meeting and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to U.S. securities laws or Swiss laws. All such filings and information are available free of charge on the web site, and we make them available on the web site as soon as reasonably possible after we file or furnish them with the SEC. The contents of these web sites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and our references to these Web sites are intended to be inactive textual references only. In addition, Logitech publishes press releases upon occurrence of significant events within Logitech. Shareholders and members of the public may elect to receive e-mails when Logitech issues press releases upon occurrence of significant events within Logitech or other press releases by subscribing through http://ir.logitech.com/alerts.cfm. As a Swiss company traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange, and as a company subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we file reports on transactions in Logitech securities by members of Logitech’s board of directors and executive officers. The reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 3, 4 and 5, along with our other SEC filings, may be accessed on our website or on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov, and the reports we file that are published by the SIX Swiss Exchange may be accessed at: http://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/obligations/management_transactions_en.html 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete, the uncertainty of current and future global economic conditions, and for many other reasons, including the following: • Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. • A significant portion of our quarterly retail sales typically occurs in the last weeks of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. • Our sales are impacted by end-user consumer demand and current and future global economic conditions and can therefore fluctuate abruptly and significantly during periods of uncertain economic conditions or geographic distress, as well as from shifts in consumer buying patterns. • We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time and during periods of weakness in consumer spending, our ability to increase local currency selling prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, our results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. We believe sales of our PC peripherals in our mature markets will decline, and that our future growth will depend on our emerging product categories and sales geographies, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, we will not experience the sales and revenue growth we experienced in the past. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs is decelerating in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand, and we believe sales of our PC peripherals in mature markets will decline in fiscal year 2012 and potentially beyond. As a result, we intend to focus more of our personnel and financial resources on growth opportunities in emerging markets, in products for tablets and mobile devices, on our LifeSize division, and other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below. Emerging Markets. We believe that the world’s emerging markets, such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, will be the high growth markets of the future for PCs and for our peripherals product lines. We are currently allocating significant resources to our sales, marketing and administrative personnel in China and, to a lesser extent, other emerging markets. We anticipate that emerging markets will include potentially high growth 22 Table of Contents opportunities, offset by potential entrenched local competition, higher credit risks, and cultural differences that affect consumer trends in ways which may be substantially different from our current major markets. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner which are attractive to consumers in these markets, if consumer demand for PCs and our peripherals in emerging markets does not increase as much as we expect, or if we invest resources in products or geographic areas which do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. Tablets, Smartphones and Other Mobile Devices. The increasing popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces is rapidly changing the consumer PC market. In our retail channels, tablets and smartphones are sold by retailers without peripherals. We believe this creates opportunities to sell products to consumers to help make their devices more productive and comfortable. However, we only recently introduced our product line for tablets, and consumer acceptance and demand for peripherals for use with tablets and other mobile computing devices is still uncertain. The increasing popularity of tablets and smart phones might decrease consumer demand for our PC peripherals, which would negatively affect our sales of these products. If we do not successfully innovate and market products designed for tablets and smart phones, if our distributor customers do not choose to carry or market such peripherals, or if general consumer demand for peripherals for use with these devices does not increase, our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. LifeSize. Competition in the video conferencing industry is intense, with large, well-financed competitors, and we expect the number of competitors and the intensity of competition to increase. Although we have maintained the LifeSize enterprise sales organization, Logitech has little experience with selling to enterprise accounts, or in marketing to large enterprises. Additionally, as customers complete video conferencing installations, they may require greater levels of service and support than we have provided in the past. Demand for these types of services and support may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, services and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Further, provision of greater levels of services and support by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. We anticipate that the growth of our LifeSize division will require significant continuing investments in product development and sales and marketing to stimulate and support future growth. If our future investments do not produce the growth that we anticipate, our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. Google TV and Connected TVs. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in the development and marketing of our products for the Google TV platform. While we believe the Google TV platform has the potential to provide us with incremental sales over an extended period of time, consumer reaction to and demand for Google TV and our products for it have been less positive than we anticipated. If demand continues to be less positive than we expect, if Google fails to further develop software enhancements for and support of the Google TV platform, if Google TV is not introduced by Google in countries outside of the United States, or if we choose to invest more in marketing, inventory, supplier commitments or other expenses in order to develop and promote our products for Google TV, our revenue expectations for our products for Google TV may not be achieved, the revenue generated could be less than the resources we have invested, and the value of our inventory could decline, which could harm our business and operating results. In our OEM channel, the slower growth of desktop PCs has adversely affected our sales of OEM mice, which have historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales. Our OEM sales accounted for 9% and 10% of total revenues in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. If the desktop PC market continues to experience slower growth or decline, and if we do not successfully diversify our OEM business, our OEM revenues could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The peripherals and video conferencing industries are intensely competitive. The peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets, and price sensitivity in the OEM market. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands, in response to declining consumer demand in both the retail and OEM markets. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions which may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. The video conferencing industry is characterized by continual performance enhancements and large, well-financed competitors. There is heightened interest in the video conferencing market by companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company, and as a result, we expect competition in the industry to further intensify. In addition, there are an increasing number of PC-based multi-person videoconferencing applications, such as those offered by Skype, which could compete at the lower end of the video conferencing market with our LifeSize products and services. In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell, and entered new markets. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories, such as our products for Google TV, as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Hewlett-Packard, Polycom, Inc. and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Microsoft is a leading producer of operating systems and applications with which our mice, keyboards and webcams are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft may be able to improve the functionality of its own peripherals to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and may be financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share. Pointing Devices, Keyboards and Desktops. Microsoft is our main competitor in the mice, keyboard and desktop product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless mice and desktops from less-established brands, including house brands, which has impacted our market share in some sales geographies and which could potentially further impact our market share. Audio. Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. In the PC, mobile entertainment and communication platform speaker business, competitors include Plantronics, Inc., Altec Lansing LLC, Creative Labs, Inc. and Bose Corporation. In the PC headset and microphone business, our main competitors include Plantronics and Altec Lansing. Our Squeezebox network-based audio systems for digital music compete with systems from several small competitors as well as larger established consumer electronics companies, like Sony and Royal Philips Electronics NV. 24 Table of Contents Video. Our competitors for PC Web cameras include Microsoft, Creative Labs, Philips, and Hewlett-Packard. We are encountering aggressive pricing practices and promotions on a worldwide basis, which have negatively impacted our revenues and margins. The worldwide market for PC webcams has been very competitive, and as a result, pricing practices and promotions by our competitors have become more aggressive. Gaming. Competitors for our interactive entertainment products include Intec, Razer USA Ltd., Performance Designed Products, LLC (Pelican Accessories), Mad Catz Interactive, Inc., and its Saitek brand. Our controllers for PlayStation also compete against controllers offered by Sony. Digital Home. Our competitors for remotes include, among others, Philips, Universal Remote Control, Inc., Universal Electronics Inc., RCA and Sony. Our products for Google TV compete to some extent with those offered by Sony, Apple Inc. and Roku, Inc., and more broadly, with connectivity devices and peripherals for other connected or smart TV platforms. We expect that the growth in recent years in consumer demand for peripheral devices for home entertainment systems will likely result in increased competition. Video Conferencing. Our primary competitors in the enterprise video conferencing market are Cisco’s Tandberg subsidiary, Polycom, Inc., Radvision Ltd., Sony and Vidyo, Inc. Some of these companies have longer experience and a larger customer installed base than LifeSize. Cisco and Hewlett-Packard also compete with us for sales of higher-end systems, and have substantially greater financial, sales and marketing, and engineering resources than we do. In addition, Microsoft’s recent offer to acquire Skype Limited, if consummated, has the potential to give Microsoft a large user base for future competitive video chat and video-conferencing products, along with integration potential across Microsoft’s product portfolio. There are also a number of smaller competitors which compete with LifeSize, along with Polycom, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard, for new accounts, OEM relationships, and installations. The growth of our LifeSize division depends in part on our ability to increase sales to enterprises with installed bases of Cisco and Tandberg equipment, and to enterprises that may purchase their equipment in the future. Cisco is a leading producer of networking, switching and other telecommunications infrastructure products and end-points, such as phones, that are frequently used within enterprises. We believe the ability of our LifeSize products to interoperate with Cisco and Tandberg equipment, and with the equipment of other telecommunications, video conferencing or telepresence equipment suppliers, to be a key factor in purchasing decisions by current or prospective LifeSize customers. Cisco and Tandberg may be able to improve the functionality of their own videoconferencing equipment to correspond with ongoing enhancements to Cisco’s networking, switching and other telecommunications equipment before we are able to make such improvements, or may restrict the interoperability of their products with ours. This could significantly harm the sales of our LifeSize division. If LifeSize sales declined substantially, the goodwill associated with the acquisition of the division might be determined to be impaired, resulting in a write-down. As a result of such sales decline or goodwill impairment, the growth of our LifeSize division, and the growth of Logitech as a whole, could be significantly harmed. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margin could decrease, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. If we do not accurately forecast market demand for our products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our retail products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs 25 Table of Contents for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. Over the past few years, we have expanded the number and types of products we sell, and the geographic markets in which we sell them, and we will endeavor to further expand our product portfolio and sales reach. The growth of our product portfolio and our sales markets has increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products. For example, our expectations for our EMEA region in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 were substantially higher than the actual demand we experienced. We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Our gross margins can vary due to consumer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, geographic sales mix, foreign currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new products in a timely manner at the product cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our products is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. For example, a sustained increase in the cost of key commodities used in our products, such as copper and thermoplastic, could negatively impact our gross margins. In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our business depends in part on access to third-party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod and iPhone, Google TV, Sony PlayStation, and Nintendo Wii. Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, which can be withdrawn, denied or not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins, or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third-party platforms or technologies used to interact with our product portfolio can be delayed in production or can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies are delayed or change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area. Our principal manufacturing operations are located in China, and we utilize third-party contract manufacturers in China, Malaysia, Thailand and India. Our manufacturing operations in China could be severely impacted by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, by strains on China’s available labor pool, communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by natural disasters, by conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, by labor unrest, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be severely impacted by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs. Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs. In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines. These conditions could adversely affect our gross margins and financial results. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers, optical sensors and LifeSize hardware products, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business as a result of adverse global economic conditions or natural disasters, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, we may have insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand and we could lose sales, or we may experience a build-up in inventory. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last weeks of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely impact our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. 27 Table of Contents We conduct operations in a number of countries, and are investing significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. We conduct operations in a number of countries, and are investing significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China. We may also increase our investments to grow sales in other emerging markets. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental and tax laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; • exposure to political and financial instability, leading to currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; • exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition; • changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement; • imposition of currency exchange controls; and • delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be granted. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, and entering new markets, such as the market for enterprise video conferencing and our introduction of products for Google TV. We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets. As we do so, we face an increased risk that claims alleging we infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit of the claims, may increase in number and significance. Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap. This risk is heightened by the increase in lawsuits brought by holders of patents that do not have an operating business. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in 28 Table of Contents defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. A successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. Our effective income tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in management’s assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. We are currently subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our profitability. If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents 