Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities involve a variety of risks. Below we describe the significant risk factors affecting our business. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Economic Environment Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Our business is always influenced by economic conditions. Economic growth in the United States remains slow and uneven. Our earnings are dependent on the expected future creditworthiness of our student loan customers, especially with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. High unemployment rates and the failure of our in-school borrowers to graduate are two of the most significant macroeconomic factors that could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and forbearance, or otherwise negatively affect performance of our existing 37 education loan portfolios. Since 2009, the unemployment rate has been higher than historical norms. In 2008, the unemployment rate was 5.8 percent; it reached a high of 9.6 percent in 2010 and declined to 7.4 percent in 2013. Forbearance programs may have the effect of delaying default emergence as customers are granted a temporary waiver from having to make payments on their loans. If the type and amount of federal funds available to pay for a college education or refinance existing education loans increases, the volume of our new loan originations and the repayment rates of our existing loans could be materially and adversely effected. Further deterioration in the economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer credit and credit quality could adversely be affected. Higher credit-related losses and weaker credit quality could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and limit funding options, including capital markets activity, which could also adversely impact our liquidity position. Funding and Liquidity Legislation passed by Congress in 2010 prohibits new loan originations under the FFELP program, and, as a result, interest income on the existing FFELP Loan portfolio and fee-based revenue from servicing FFELP Loans will decline over time. We may not be able to develop revenue streams to replace the declining revenue from FFELP loans. In 2010, Congress passed legislation ending the origination of student loans under the FFELP program. All federal student loans are now originated through the DSLP of the ED. The law did not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP Loans. As a result of this legislation, interest income on our FFELP Loan portfolio and fee-based revenue from servicing that portfolio and third-party FFELP Loans will decline over time as existing FFELP Loans are paid down, refinanced or repaid after default by Guarantors. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, our FFELP Loan portfolio declined by approximately $21.0 billion, or 17 percent, $12 billion of which was attributed to the sale of Residual Interests in securitization trusts, and our intercompany FFELP Loan servicing revenue declined by approximately $140 million, or 21 percent, compared to the prior year. If we do not acquire new loan portfolios or otherwise grow or develop new revenue streams to replace or supplement our existing, and declining, FFELP net interest and servicing revenue, our consolidated revenue and operating income will continue to decrease which could materially and adversely impact our earnings. Our business can be affected by the cost and availability of funding in the capital markets. The capital markets have from time to time experienced periods of significant volatility. This volatility can dramatically and adversely affect our financing costs when compared to historical norms. Additional factors that could make financing more expensive or unavailable include, but are not limited to, financial losses, events that have an adverse impact on our reputation, changes in the activities of our business partners, events that have an adverse impact on the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, corporate and regulatory actions, absolute and comparative interest rate changes, ratings agencies’ actions, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. If financing becomes more difficult, expensive or unavailable, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. During 2013, we funded Private Education Loan originations through term-brokered and retail deposits raised by Sallie Mae Bank. Assets funded in this manner result in refinancing risk because the average term of the deposits is shorter than the expected term of some of the assets. There is no assurance that this or other sources of funding, such as the term asset-backed securities market, will be available at a level and cost that makes new Private Education Loan originations possible or profitable, nor is there any assurance that the loans can be refinanced at profitable margins. For additional discussion on regulatory and compliance risks relating to Sallie Mae Bank, see below at Item 1A. “Risk Factors — Legal, Regulatory and Compliance.” If we are unable to obtain funds from which to make new Private Education Loans, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 38 The interest rate characteristics of our earning assets do not always match the interest rate characteristics of our funding arrangements, which may increase the price of, or decrease our ability to obtain, necessary liquidity. Net interest income is the primary source of cash flow generated by our portfolios of FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans. Interest earned on FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans is primarily indexed to one-month LIBOR rates and either one-month LIBOR rates or the one-month Prime rate, respectively, but our cost of funds is primarily indexed to three-month LIBOR, creating the possibility of re-pricing risk related to these assets. In a declining interest rate environment, this difference in timing may compress the net interest margin on FFELP Loans and Private Education Loans. The different interest rate characteristics of our loan portfolio and liabilities funding these loans also result in basis risk and re-pricing risk. It is not possible to hedge all of our exposure to such risks. While the asset and hedge indices are short-term with rate movements that are typically highly correlated, there can be no assurance that the historically high correlation will not be disrupted by capital market dislocations or other factors not within our control. In these circumstances, our earnings could be materially adversely affected. Adverse market conditions or an inability to effectively manage our liquidity risk could negatively impact our ability to meet our liquidity and funding needs, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and our overall financial condition. We must effectively manage the liquidity risk to which we are exposed. We require liquidity to meet cash requirements such as day-to-day operating expenses, extensions of credit on our Private Education Loans, required payments of principal and interest on our borrowings, and distributions to our stockholders. Our primary sources of liquidity and funding are from fees we collect for servicing education loans, payments made on FFELP and Private Education Loans that we hold, proceeds and distributions from securitization transactions and trusts that we undertake and offerings of debt and equity securities. We may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during times of financial stress or capital market disruptions. Unexpected and sharp changes in the overall economic environment may negatively impact the performance of our loan and credit portfolios. Unexpected changes in the overall economic environment, including unemployment, may result in the credit performance of our loan portfolio being materially different from what we expect. Our earnings are dependent on the expected future creditworthiness of our student loan customers, especially with respect to our Private Education Loan portfolio. We maintain a reserve for credit losses based on expected future charge-offs expected over primarily the next two years, which considers many factors, including levels of past due loans and forbearances and expected economic conditions. However, management’s determination of the appropriate reserve level may under- or over-estimate future losses. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if a market risk changes significantly, or if our reserves for credit losses are not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are also subject to the creditworthiness of other third parties, including counterparties to derivative transactions. For example, we have exposure to the financial conditions of various lending, investment and derivative counterparties. If a counterparty fails to perform its obligations, we could, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. In addition, we might not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment, and thus be exposed to a greater level of interest rate and/or foreign currency exchange rate risk which could lead to additional losses. Our counterparty exposure is more fully discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Counterparty Exposure.” If our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 39 Higher than expected prepayments of loans could reduce servicing revenues or reduce or delay payments we receive as the holder of the Residual Interests of securitization trusts holding education loans. FFELP Loans and Private Education loans may be voluntarily prepaid without penalty by borrowers or, in the case of FFELP Loans, consolidated with the borrowers’ other education loans through refinancing into the federal DSLP. FFELP Loans may also be repaid after default by the Guarantors of FFELP Loans. Prepayment rates and levels are subject to many factors which are beyond our control, including repayment through loan consolidation programs. When education loans contained within a securitization trust are prepaid, the fees we earn as servicer decrease and the value of any Residual Interest we own in the securitization trust may decline. While some fluctuation in prepayment levels is to be expected, extraordinary or extended increases in prepayment levels could materially adversely affect our liquidity, income and the value of those Residual Interests. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. We have unsecured debt that totaled, as of December 31, 2013, approximately $18.3 billion. In connection with our May 28, 2013 announcement of the proposed Spin-Off, three rating agencies took negative ratings actions with regard to our long-term unsecured debt ratings. Fitch Ratings, Inc. (“Fitch”) lowered its senior unsecured long-term debt rating one notch to BB+, one notch below its investment grade, and also placed its rating on negative watch. Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services LLC (“S&P”) placed their ratings on our senior unsecured long-term debt on review and watch, respectively, for possible downgrade. Moody’s current rating is Ba1, one notch below its investment grade, and S&P’s rating is BBB-, its lowest investment grade. Fitch and S&P indicated that if the Spin-Off occurs as planned, they expect to further lower their ratings by one notch and up to two notches, respectively. As a result of Fitch’s action, two of the three credit rating agencies now rate our long term unsecured debt at below investment grade such that we are no longer considered an investment grade issuer. Whereas we had previously been included in the Investment Grade Index, we are now included in the High Yield Index. This has resulted in a higher cost of funds for us, and our senior unsecured debt to trade with greater volatility. The negative actions taken by the credit rating agencies were based on concerns that the Spin-Off will have a negative impact on the holders of our senior unsecured debt. According to their ratings reports, these concerns primarily focus on NewCo’s lack of future Private Student Loan originations and related servicing income, the loss of access to the earnings, cash flow, equity and potential market value of Sallie Mae Bank, the run-off of the FFELP Loan portfolio and strategic uncertainty as to the source of incremental earnings and cash flow to replace that in run-off, and an expected increase in our cost of accessing the unsecured debt markets, including for refinancing purposes. We utilize the unsecured debt markets to help fund our business. The amount, type and cost of our funding directly affects the cost of operating our business and growing our assets and is dependent upon outside factors, including our credit ratings from ratings agencies. There can be no assurance that our credit ratings will not be changed in the future. A reduction in the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs or limit our access to the capital markets. We may also face additional challenges in the future, including more limited capital resources to invest in or expand our businesses. Our use of derivatives to manage interest rate sensitivity exposes us to credit and market risk that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. We maintain an overall interest rate strategy that uses derivatives to minimize the economic effect of interest rate changes. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely avoid the risks associated with these fluctuations. For example, our student loan portfolio remains subject to prepayment risk that could result in its being under- or over-hedged, which could result in material losses. In addition, our interest rate risk management activities expose us to mark-to-market losses if interest rates move in a materially different way than was expected when we entered into the related 40 derivative contracts. As a result, there can be no assurance that hedging activities using derivatives will effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity, have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition or not adversely impact our liquidity and earnings. Our use of derivatives also exposes us to market risk and credit risk. Market risk is the chance of financial loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market liquidity. Our Floor Income Contracts and some of the basis swaps we use to manage earnings variability caused by having different reset characteristics on interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value, called the “mark-to-market,” of these derivative instruments is included in our statement of income. A decline in the fair value of these derivatives could have a material adverse effect on our reported earnings. Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not perform its obligations under a contract. Credit risk is limited to the loss of the fair value gain in a derivative that the counterparty or clearinghouse owes us and therefore exists for derivatives with a positive fair value. At December 31, 2013, we had a net positive exposure (derivative gain positions less collateral posted by counterparties) related to derivatives of $83 million, excluding securitization trusts discussed below. If a counterparty or clearinghouse fails to perform its obligations, we could, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. In addition, we might not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment. Our securitization trusts, which we are required to consolidate on our balance sheet, have $10.7 billion of Euro and British Pound Sterling denominated bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2013. To convert these non-U.S. dollar denominated bonds into U.S. dollar liabilities, the trusts have entered into foreign-currency swaps with highly rated counterparties. In addition, the trusts have entered into $12.8 billion of interest rate swaps, which are primarily used to convert Prime rate payments received on securitized loans to LIBOR paid on the bonds. At December 31, 2013, the net positive exposure on swaps in securitization trusts was $968 million. A failure by a swap counterparty to perform its obligations could, if the swap has a positive fair value to us, materially and adversely affect our earnings. High or increasing interest rate environments may cause our Floor Income to decline, which may adversely affect our earnings. FFELP Loans disbursed before April 1, 2006, generally earn interest at the higher of either the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time, or a floating rate based on a Special Allowance Payment (“SAP”) formula set by ED. We have generally financed our FFELP Loans with floating rate debt whose interest is matched closely to the floating nature of the applicable SAP formula. If a decline in interest rates causes the borrower rate to exceed the SAP formula rate, we will continue to earn interest on the loan at the fixed borrower rate while the floating rate interest on our debt will continue to decline. The additional spread earned between the fixed borrower rate and the SAP formula rate is referred to as “Floor Income.” Depending on the type of FFELP Loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to a market rate each July 1. For loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, we may earn Floor Income for an extended period of time; for those loans where the borrower interest rate is reset annually on July 1, we may earn Floor Income to the next reset date. In accordance with legislation enacted in 2006, holders of FFELP Loans are required to rebate Floor Income to ED for all FFELP Loans disbursed on or after April 1, 2006. After accounting for these required rebates, as of December 31, 2013, approximately $56.8 billion of our FFELP Loan portfolio was eligible to earn Floor Income. Floor Income can be volatile as rates on the underlying student loans move up and down. We generally hedge this risk by selling Floor Income Contracts to counterparties which lock in the value of the Floor Income over the term of the contract. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $31.7 billion (56 percent) of our FFELP Loans eligible to earn Floor Income were economically hedged with Floor Income Contracts. A rise in interest rates will reduce the amount of Floor Income received on the approximately $25.1 billion of FFELP Loans not hedged with Floor Income Contracts, which will compress our interest margins and depress its earnings. 41 Defaults on student education loans, particularly Private Education Loans, could adversely affect our earnings. FFELP Loans are insured or guaranteed by state or not-for-profit agencies and are also protected by contractual rights to recovery from the United States pursuant to guaranty agreements among ED and these agencies. These guarantees generally cover at least 97 percent of a FFELP Loan’s principal and accrued interest for loans disbursed and, in limited circumstances, 100 percent of the loan’s principal and accrued interest. Nevertheless, we are exposed to credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the FFELP Loans in our portfolio and to the possible loss of the insurance or guarantee due to a failure to comply with HEA and related regulations. We bear the full credit exposure on Private Education Loans. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the annual charge-off rate for our Private Education Loans (as a percentage of loans in repayment) was 2.8 percent. Delinquencies are an important indicator of the potential future credit performance for Private Education Loans. Our delinquencies, as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment, were 8.3 percent at December 31, 2013. The evaluation of our allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. As of December 31, 2013, our allowance for FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan losses was approximately $119 million and $2.1 billion, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized provisions for FFELP Loan and Private Education Loan losses of $52 million and $787 million, respectively. The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that management believes is appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors outside of our control, such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes and other unforeseen future trends. Losses on Private Education Loans are also determined by risk characteristics such as school type, loan status (in-school, grace, forbearance, repayment and delinquency), loan seasoning (number of months in active repayment), underwriting criteria (e.g., credit scores), a cosigner and the current economic environment. General economic and employment conditions, including employment rates for recent college graduates, during the recent recession led to higher rates of student loan defaults. Although default rates have decreased recently as economic conditions have improved, they remain higher than pre-recession levels. If actual loan performance is worse than currently estimated, it could materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in our statements of income and, as a result, adversely affect our results of operations. Operations A failure of our operating systems or infrastructure could disrupt our business, cause significant losses, result in regulatory action or damage our reputation. A failure of operating systems or infrastructure could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal and regulatory standards and our product specifications, which change to reflect our business needs and new or revised regulatory requirements. As processing demands change and our loan portfolios grow in both volume and differing terms and conditions, developing and maintaining our operating systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. There is no assurance that we can adequately or efficiently develop, maintain or acquire access to such systems and infrastructure. Our loan originations and conversions and the servicing, financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities that support them may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to service our clients, result in financial loss or liability to our clients, disrupt our business, result in regulatory action or cause reputational damage. Despite the plans and facilities we have in 42 place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, Internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, a disruptive event impacting our processing locations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on secure information technology, and a breach of those systems could result in significant losses, disclosure of confidential customer information and reputational damage, which would adversely affect our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal, confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, malicious attacks and other events that could have a security impact beyond our control. Our technologies, systems, networks and those of third parties may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. Moreover, information security risks for large financial institutions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. If one or more of such events occur, personal, confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, could be jeopardized or could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations that could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We also routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information, some through third parties. We have put in place secure transmission capability, and work to ensure third parties follow similar procedures. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. In the event personal, confidential or other information is jeopardized, intercepted, misused or mishandled, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to fines, penalties, litigation costs and settlements and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. If one or more of such events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We depend on third parties for a wide array of services, systems and information technology applications, and a breach or violation of law by one of these third parties could disrupt our business or provide our competitors with an opportunity to enhance their position at our expense. We increasingly depend on third parties for a wide array of services, systems and information technology applications. Third-party vendors are significantly involved in aspects of our software and systems development, the timely transmission of information across our data communication network, and for other telecommunications, processing, remittance and technology-related services in connection with our banking and payment services businesses. We also utilize third-party debt collectors significantly in the collection of defaulted Private Education Loans. If a service provider fails to provide the services we require or expect, or fails to meet applicable contractual or regulatory requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, the failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to process customers’ transactions in a timely and accurate manner, otherwise hampering our ability to serve our customers, or subjecting us to litigation and regulatory risk for matters as diverse as poor vendor oversight or improper release or protection of personal information. Such a failure could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of our networks and services, and the quality of our brands, and could materially adversely affect our revenues and/or our results of operations. 43 Federal funding constraints and spending policy changes triggered by associated federal spending deadlines may result in disruption of federal payments for services we provide to the government, which could materially and adversely affect our business strategy or future business prospects. We receive payments from the federal government on our FFELP Loan portfolio and for other services we provide to them, including servicing loans under the DSLP and providing default aversion and contingency collections to ED. Payments for these services may be affected by various factors, including the following: • The Bipartisan Budget Act enacted on December 26, 2013, includes several provisions that will have or could have an effect on our business. First, the Act reduced the amount paid to guaranty agencies for defaulted FFELP Loans rehabilitated under Section 428F of the HEA, beginning on July 1, 2014. See the section titled “Business Services Segment” in Item 1. “Business” for a discussion on the potential impact of the Budget Act on future operations. In addition, the Budget Act eliminated funding for the direct loan servicing performed by not-for-profit servicers. The Budget Act requires that all servicing funding be provided through the annual appropriations process which is subject to certain limitations. Although the payments for our direct loan servicing contract is already funded from annual appropriations, the requirement to fund all servicing from the limited appropriated funding could have an effect on our future business in ways we cannot predict at this time. • Other Higher Education Legislation: As Congress considers the reauthorization of the HEA, it could consider legislation that would reduce the payments to Guarantors or change the consolidation program to incentivize student loan borrowers to refinance their existing student loans, both private and federal. Such reforms could reduce our cash flows from servicing and interest income as well as its net interest margin. It is possible that the Administration and Congress in the future could engage in a prolonged debate linking the federal deficit, debt ceiling and other budget issues resulting in a similar debate to the one that occurred around the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the raising of the debt ceiling in October 2013. If U.S. lawmakers in the future fail to reach agreement on these issues, the federal government could stop or delay payment on its obligations, including those on services we provide. We cannot predict how or what programs will be impacted by any actions that the Administration, Congress or the federal government may take. Further, legislation to address the federal deficit and spending could include proposals that would adversely affect FFELP and DSLP-related servicing businesses. A protracted reduction, suspension or cancellation of the demand for the services we provide, or proposed changes to the terms or pricing of services provided under existing contracts with the federal government, including our contract with ED, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows, profitability and business outlook, and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to undertake numerous cost-cutting initiatives to realign and restructure our business in light of significant legislative changes in the past several years and the amortization of the FFELP Loan portfolios we service. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we do not effectively align our cost structure with our current business operations, regulatory compliance obligations and future business prospects. In response to significant legislative changes in the past several years, including the end of FFELP, we have undertaken and continue to undertake cost-cutting initiatives, including workforce reductions, servicing center closures, restructuring and transfers of business functions to new locations, enhancements to our web-based customer services, adoption of new procurement strategies and investments in operational efficiencies. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by these cost-cutting initiatives if cost reductions taken are so dramatic as to cause disruptions in our business, reductions in the quality of the services we provide or cause us to fail to comply with applicable regulatory standards. We may be unable to successfully execute on 44 certain growth and other business strategies or achieve certain business goals or objectives if cost reductions are too dramatic. Alternatively, we may not be able to achieve our desired cost savings. In either case our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires management to make critical accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses during the reporting periods. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses. A description of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in “Note 2 — Significant Accounting Policies” to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we make incorrect assumptions or estimates, we may under- or overstate reported financial results, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions or strategic investments that we pursue may not be successful and could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition or reduce our earnings. We may consider or undertake strategic acquisitions of, or material investments in, businesses, products, or portfolios of loans. We may not be able to identify suitable opportunities and, if not, some of our strategies could fail. We may not be able to obtain necessary financing on satisfactory terms. We may not be able obtain necessary regulatory approvals or complete the transactions on appropriate terms. If we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition; if the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. We may assume liabilities, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate personnel, operations, businesses, products, or technologies of an acquisition. There may be additional risks if we enter into a line of business in which we have limited experience or the business operates in a legal, regulatory or competitive environment with which we are not familiar. We may not have or be able to maintain the expertise needed to manage the new business. Acquisitions and investments also may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel, customers or vendors. If we fail to integrate acquisitions or investments or realize the expected benefits, we may lose the return on these acquisitions or investments or incur additional transaction costs, and our business and financial condition may be harmed as a result. Risks Related to the Spin-Off The proposed Spin-Off of our current business into two, distinct, publicly-traded entities is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, which may not be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or may not achieve the intended results. We are currently pursuing a strategic plan to separate our existing organization into two publicly-traded companies, an education loan management company and a consumer banking company. It is expected the Spin-Off, if completed, will occur in the first half of 2014. Our ability to timely effect the Spin-Off is subject to several conditions, including, among others, the receipt of a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and the SEC declaring effective a registration statement relating to the securities of the separated entity. We cannot assure that the Spin-Off will be completed in a timely fashion, if at all. For these and other reasons, the Spin-Off may not be completed on the terms or timeline contemplated. Further, if the Spin-Off is completed, it may not achieve the intended results. Any such difficulties could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 45 The actions required to implement the complete separation of our current businesses into two, distinct, publicly-traded entities have and will continue to take significant management time and attention and could disrupt operations. The complete separation of our existing organization into two publicly-traded companies will require significant ongoing execution and administration at all levels of the internal organization. A team of employees is charged with implementing the Spin-Off reporting frequently to management on status and progress of the project. For the foreseeable future, high-level employees and management will continue to dedicate a significant amount of time to the implementation of the Spin-Off to ensure that it is carried out timely and appropriately. The time and attention that high-level employees and management dedicate to the Spin-Off could limit the time and attention spent on managing the business which could disrupt current and future operations. SLM BankCo will incur significant costs in connection with being a stand-alone company and lose the advantage of our larger size and purchasing power. SLM BankCo will incur significant costs in connection with the transition to being a stand-alone public company and implementing the Spin-Off, including costs to separate information systems, accounting, tax, legal and other professional services costs and recruiting and relocation costs associated with hiring key senior management personnel new to SLM BankCo. In addition, the businesses that will be operated out of SLM BankCo have historically taken advantage of our current size and purchasing power in procuring goods and services. After the Spin-Off, as a separate independent entity, SLM BankCo will no longer be able to rely on this joint purchasing power and, as a result, it may be unable to obtain goods and services from third-party service providers and vendors at prices or on terms as favorable as those it obtained prior to the Spin-Off. Furthermore, prior to the Spin-Off, the SLM BankCo businesses have obtained services from, or engaged in transactions with, our affiliates under intercompany agreements. NewCo and its affiliates will provide services for SLM BankCo and its affiliates following the Spin-Off under a transition services agreement for a transition period and potentially thereafter. The fees charged by NewCo and its affiliates for the provision of these services to SLM BankCo and its affiliates may be higher than those charged prior to the Spin-Off. All of these factors will result in costs that are higher than the amounts reflected in historical financial statements which could cause SLM BankCo’s profitability to decrease. SLM BankCo may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Spin-Off, and the Spin-Off may adversely affect its business. SLM BankCo may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the Spin-Off, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The Spin-Off is expected to provide the following benefits, among others: (i) a distinct investment identity allowing investors to evaluate the merits, performance, and future prospects of SLM BankCo separately from NewCo; (ii) cash flows significantly in excess of preferred stock dividend and debt service obligations; (iii) more efficient allocation of capital for SLM BankCo and NewCo; (iv) reducing the likelihood SLM BankCo is designated a systemically important financial institution; and (v) a separate equity structure that allows direct access by SLM BankCo to the capital markets and the use of SLM BankCo equity for acquisitions and equity compensation. SLM BankCo may not be able to realize these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others: (a) the Spin-Off will continue to require significant amounts of management’s time and effort for the foreseeable future, which may divert management’s attention from operating SLM BankCo’s business; (b) following the Spin-Off, SLM BankCo may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than if it were still a part of us as a whole; (c) following the Spin-Off, SLM BankCo’s business will be less diversified than our business prior to the Spin-Off; and (d) other actions required to separate SLM BankCo’s and NewCo’s respective businesses could disrupt SLM BankCo’s operations. If SLM BankCo fails to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the Spin-Off, or if such benefits are delayed, the business, financial condition and results of operations of SLM BankCo could be adversely affected and the value of its stock could be impacted. 46 We cannot predict the effect of the Spin-Off on the market value of SLM BankCo’s common stock and after the Spin-Off its stock price may fluctuate significantly. We cannot predict the prices at which shares of SLM BankCo’s common stock may trade after the Spin-Off. We can also not predict the effect of the Spin-Off on the trading prices of SLM BankCo’s common stock or whether the combined market value of the shares of SLM BankCo common stock and the shares of NewCo common stock will be less than, equal to or greater than the market value of our common stock immediately prior to the Spin-Off. The market price of shares of SLM BankCo common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond SLM BankCo’s control, including: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in SLM BankCo’s operating results; • The smaller market capitalization of SLM BankCo; • Changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or SLM BankCo’s ability to meet those estimates; • Uncertainty relating to the dividend policy between Sallie Mae Bank and SLM BankCo as a stand-alone entity; • The operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; • Changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which SLM BankCo operates; and • Domestic and worldwide economic conditions. In addition, when the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A securities class action lawsuit against SLM BankCo could cause it to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of its management and other resources, which could materially adversely affect SLM BankCo’s business, financing condition and results of operations. Sallie Mae Bank and SMI are currently subject to ongoing consumer regulation investigations. Sallie Mae Bank is also subject to an ongoing 2008 cease and desist order jointly issued by the FDIC and the UDFI. Though we are unaware of any applicable requirement that the FDIC, UDFI, or CFPB approve of the Spin-Off, there can be no assurances that these or other federal or state consumer or financial regulators will not seek to affect the timing, manner or terms of the Spin-Off, or prohibit the Spin-Off altogether. Sallie Mae Bank is subject to state and FDIC regulation, oversight and regular examination, including by the CFPB. The FDIC and state regulators have the authority to impose fines, penalties or other limitations on Sallie Mae Bank’s operations should they conclude that its operations are not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. Sallie Mae Bank is currently subject to a 2008 cease and desist order issued jointly by the FDIC and the UDFI for weaknesses in its compliance function. Many of these weaknesses have previously been attributed to Sallie Mae Bank’s oversight of significant activities performed outside Sallie Mae Bank by its affiliates, including by companies that will become subsidiaries of NewCo. The Spin-Off is expected to ameliorate this condition due to our separation into two, independent publicly-traded companies. At the time of this filing, Sallie Mae Bank remains subject to a cease and desist order originally issued in August 2008 by the FDIC and the UDFI. In July 2013, the FDIC notified us that it plans to replace the existing cease and desist order on Sallie Mae Bank with a new formal enforcement action against Sallie Mae Bank that would more specifically address certain cited violations of Section 5 of the FTC Act, including practices relating to payment allocation practices and the disclosures and assessments of certain late fees, as well as alleged violations under the SCRA. In November 2013, the FDIC notified us that the new formal enforcement action would be against Sallie Mae Bank and an additional enforcement action would be against SMI, in its capacity as a servicer of education loans for other financial institutions, and would include civil money penalties and restitution. For additional information regarding these and related regulatory matters and the reserves we have recorded in connection therewith, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings—Regulatory Matters.” 47 SLM BankCo and NewCo will each be subject to restrictions under a tax sharing agreement between them, and a violation of the tax sharing agreement may result in tax liability to SLM BankCo and to its stockholders at the time of the Spin-Off. In connection with the Spin-Off, SLM BankCo will enter into a tax sharing agreement with NewCo to preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation and distribution of NewCo. Under this tax sharing agreement, both SLM BankCo and NewCo will be restricted from engaging in certain transactions that could prevent the Spin-Off from being tax-free to SLM BankCo and its stockholders at the time of the Spin-Off for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Compliance with the tax sharing agreement and the restrictions therein may limit SLM BankCo’s near-term ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in activities that might be beneficial from a business perspective, including M&A transactions. This may result in missed opportunities or the pursuit of business strategies that may not be as beneficial for SLM BankCo and which may negatively affect SLM BankCo’s anticipated profitability. Were NewCo to fail to comply with the restrictions in the tax sharing agreement and as a result the Spin-Off was determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, SLM BankCo and its stockholders at the time of the Spin-Off that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Although the tax sharing agreement will provide that NewCo is required to indemnify SLM BankCo for taxes incurred by SLM BankCo that may arise were NewCo to fail to comply with its obligations under the tax sharing agreement, there is no assurance that NewCo will have the funds to satisfy that liability. Also, NewCo will not be required to indemnify our stockholders for any tax liabilities they may incur for its violation of the tax sharing agreement. Competition We operate in a competitive environment. Our product offerings are primarily concentrated in loan and savings products for higher education. We compete in the private credit lending business with banks and other consumer lending institutions, many with strong consumer brand name recognition and greater financial resources. We compete based on our products, origination capability and customer service. To the extent our competitors compete aggressively or more effectively, we could lose market share to them or subject our existing loans to refinancing risk. Our product offerings may not prove to be profitable and may result in higher than expected losses. We are a leading provider of saving- and paying-for-college products and programs. This concentration gives us a competitive advantage in the marketplace. This concentration also creates risks in our business, particularly in light of our concentrations as a Private Education Loan lender and as a servicer for the FFELP and DSLP. If population demographics result in a decrease in college-age individuals, if demand for higher education decreases, if the cost of attendance of higher education decreases, if public resistance to higher education costs increases, or if the demand for higher education loans decreases, our consumer lending business could be negatively affected. In addition, the federal government, through the DSLP, poses significant competition to our private credit loan products. If loan limits under the DSLP increase, DSLP loans could be more widely available to students and their families and DSLP loans could increase, resulting in further decreases in the size of the Private Education Loan market and demand for our Private Education Loan products. We serviced approximately 5.7 million accounts under a DSLP servicing contract with ED as of December 31, 2013. We compete for DSLP servicing volume from ED with three other servicing companies with whom we share the contract. New account allocations for each contract year are awarded annually based on each company’s performance on five different metrics over the most recently ended contract year: defaulted borrower count; defaulted borrower dollar amount; a survey of borrowers; a survey of schools; and a survey of ED personnel. Pursuant to the contract terms related to annual volume allocation of new loans, the maximum a servicer can be awarded for any new contract year is 40 percent of net new borrowers in that contract year. We ranked last in the allocation of net accounts for the upcoming contract year. Our allocation of new customer loans serviced for ED under the DSLP servicing contract was 15 percent for the most recent contract year and is 18 percent for the upcoming contract year. If we are unable to improve on our performance metrics and increase our 48 relative standing compared to the three other servicing companies we compete with for account allocations under the DSLP servicing contract, our ability to increase our servicing business with ED may be materially adversely affected. In November 2013, ED gave notice to Sallie Mae of its intent to exercise its five-year renewal option to extend the DSLP servicing contract. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Our businesses are regulated by various state and federal laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, sanctions, litigation or the loss of insurance and guarantees on affected FFELP Loans. Our consumer lending and debt collection businesses are subject to regulation and oversight by various state and federal agencies, particularly in the area of consumer protection, and are subject to numerous state and federal laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, including litigation costs, and/or business sanctions. In addition, changes to such laws and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations if we are not able to adequately mitigate the impact of such changes. We are subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators as well as litigation from private plaintiffs. The CFPB, in particular, has broad authority with respect to our loan servicing and collection business. It has authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws and to directly or indirectly enforce those laws and examine us for compliance. The CFPB also has examination and enforcement authority with respect to various federal consumer financial laws for some providers of consumer financial products and services, including the Company. In December 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule, effective March 2014, defining “larger participants” in the student loan servicing market that will be subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB, a category that also includes us. In October, 2012, the CFPB issued a final rule, effective in January, 2013, defining “larger participants” in the debt collection market that will be subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB, a category that includes us but which would not apply to the SLM BankCo after the Spin-Off. However, in November, 2013, the CFPB issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for rules to govern debt collection practices under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, including a request for comments on whether it should issue rules covering the conduct of creditors collecting their own debts and if the CFPB issues such rules, they may apply to SLM BankCo after the Spin-Off. The CFPB is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices and to ensure that all consumers have access to fair, transparent and competitive markets for consumer financial products and services. The review of products and practices to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive conduct will be a continuing focus of the CFPB. The ultimate impact of this heightened scrutiny as well as any new rules promulgated by the CFPB is uncertain, but it has resulted in, and could continue to result in, changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures. It could also result in increased costs related to servicing and collection activities, regulatory oversight, supervision and examination, additional remediation efforts and possible penalties. In furtherance of its regulatory and supervisory powers, the CFPB has the authority to impose monetary penalties for violations of applicable federal consumer financial laws, require remediation of practices and pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of applicable federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB’s own rules). The CFPB has the authority to issue cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented under Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions to remedy violations of state law. If 49 the CFPB or one or more state attorneys general or state regulators believe that we have violated any of the applicable laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that could have a material adverse effect on us or our business. Loans serviced under the FFELP are subject to the HEA and related regulations. Our servicing operations are designed and monitored to comply with the HEA, related regulations and program guidance; however, ED could determine that we are not in compliance for a variety of reasons, including that we misinterpreted ED guidance or incorrectly applied the HEA and its related regulations or policies. Failure to comply could result in fines, the loss of the insurance and related federal guarantees on affected FFELP Loans, expenses required to cure servicing deficiencies, suspension or termination of our right to participate as a FFELP servicer, negative publicity and potential legal claims. The imposition of significant fines, the loss of the insurance and related federal guarantees on a material number of FFELP Loans, the incurrence of additional expenses and/or the loss of our ability to participate as a FFELP servicer could individually or in the aggregate have a material, negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Sallie Mae Bank is subject to state and FDIC regulation, oversight and regular examination, including by the CFPB. The FDIC and state regulators have the authority to impose fines, penalties or other limitations on Sallie Mae Bank’s operations should they conclude that its operations are not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. For additional information on regulatory matters relating to Sallie Mae Bank and SMI, as its servicer, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings—Regulatory Matters.” We may be required to make further changes to the business practices and products of Sallie Mae Bank and our other affiliates, which may lead to additional costs that must be incurred to comply with the terms of any order. We have made and, following the Spin-Off will continue to make, changes to Sallie Mae Bank’s oversight of significant activities performed outside Sallie Mae Bank by affiliates and to its business practices in order to comply with all applicable laws and regulations and the terms of any cease and desist orders. With respect to many of the weaknesses attributed to Sallie Mae Bank under the 2008 cease and desist order issued jointly by the FDIC and the UDFI for weaknesses in its compliance function, the Spin-Off is expected to ameliorate this condition due to our proposed separation into two, independent publicly-traded companies. However, depending on the outcome of currently pending actions by the FDIC, UDFI, the Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and CFPB, we or Sallie Mae Bank could be required to, or otherwise determine to, make further changes to the business practices and products of Sallie Mae Bank, its other affiliates and third-party provider relationships following the Spin-Off to respond to regulatory concerns. Such changes to the business practices and products of Sallie Mae Bank or our other affiliates in response to current or future regulatory concerns and enforcement, or other action by the above referenced or other regulators, which may include civil money penalties and require restitution to customers, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in law, regulation or regulatory policy involving student loans could have a material impact on our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future prospects. Our businesses are subject to numerous state and federal laws and regulations and changes to such laws and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations if we are not able to adequately mitigate the impact of such changes. Our FFELP Loan business has been affected extensively by changes in law, most notably by the legislation Congress passed in 2010 to eliminate new FFELP Loans. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing federal loan servicing or the terms and conditions of existing FFELP Loans could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and business prospects. Our Private Education Loan business may also be impacted by changes in law, regulations or regulatory policy. For example, the CFPB’s 2012 Report on the Private Education Loan marketplace provided a number of 50 recommendations, including reconsideration by Congress of the federal Bankruptcy Code’s treatment of Private Education Loans and subjecting additional credit products to the disclosure and consumer protection framework applicable to Private Education Loans. The CFPB’s 2013 Report recommended Congress consider making reforms to the disclosures and guidelines that apply to payment application, records retention and other aspects of student loan servicing to mirror changes previously made for the credit card and mortgage businesses. In the future, Congress or the Administration may act on these recommendations or choose to take actions beyond or unrelated to the CFPB’s recommendations to further regulate the Private Education Loan market or dictate the terms and conditions applicable to Private Education Loans. Additionally, even in the absence of Congress or the Administration pursuing the CFPB’s recommendations, the CFPB may use its regulatory authority and enforcement actions to make substantial changes on its own to the Private Education Loan market and we believe that the CFPB has shown through its actions that it is willing to do so. The taking of any such actions may adversely impact the profitability and growth of our business and/or significantly alter the costs and manner in which we choose to conduct this business. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contains comprehensive provisions that govern the practices and oversight of financial institutions (including large non-bank financial institutions) and other participants in the financial markets. It imposes significant regulations on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including enhanced supervisory authority over our business. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions have become effective but remain subject to interpretation and formal implementation by regulatory authorities through final rulemaking. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB and other financial regulators have introduced and continue to introduce new regulations and guidance, even as they impose enforcement actions against financial institutions and financial service providers which often contain additional cautions and guidance which must be taken into consideration. Due to the uncertainty engendered by these new regulations, guidance and actions, coupled with the likelihood of additional changes or additions to the statutes, regulations and practices applicable to our business, we are not able to estimate the ultimate impact of changes in law on its financial results, business operations or strategies. We believe that the cost of responding to and complying with these evolving laws and regulations, as well as any guidance from enforcement actions, will continue to increase, as will the risk of penalties and fines from any enforcement actions that may be imposed on its businesses. Our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects could be materially and adversely affected as a result. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes state officials to enforce regulations issued by the CFPB and to enforce the Dodd- Frank Act’s general prohibition against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices. Most states also have statutes that prohibit unfair and deceptive practices. To the extent states enact requirements that differ from federal standards or state officials and courts adopt interpretations of federal consumer laws that differ from those adopted by the CFPB under the Dodd-Frank Act, or states increase their examination, supervision and enforcement activities, our compliance costs could increase and reduce our ability to offer the same products and services to consumers nationwide and we may be subject to a higher risk of state enforcement actions. The FSOC could designate us as a systemically important non-bank financial company to be supervised by the FRB. Designation as a so-called “SIFI” would impose significant additional statutorily–defined monitoring and compliance regimes on our business and could significantly increase the levels of risk-based capital and highly liquid assets we are required to hold. Required implementation of some or all of the measures currently proposed by the FRB to be applicable to SIFIs would have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As directed by the Dodd-Frank Act, on April 3, 2012, FSOC approved the final rule and interpretive guidance regarding the designation of non-bank financial companies as SIFIs (the “SIFI Rules”). If designated as a SIFI, a non-bank financial company will be supervised by the FRB and be subject to enhanced prudential supervision and regulatory standards. While the separation of our businesses will reduce the complexity of both organizations and may reduce our risk of designation as a SIFI under the SIFI Rules, no assurance can be given that such a designation will not occur. 51 The revised capital requirements under the U.S. Basel III capital rules impose heightened capital standards which may adversely affect us, our business, results of operations and financial position. In July 2013, the federal banking regulators issued the U.S. Basel III final rule. The final rule implements the Basel III capital framework in the United States and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Collins Amendment. The U.S. Basel III final rule will apply to Sallie Mae Bank beginning on January 1, 2015. Consistent with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s Basel III capital framework, the U.S. Basel III final rule includes a new minimum ratio of Common Equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5 percent and a Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of greater than 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets that will apply to all U.S. banking organizations, including Sallie Mae Bank. Failure to maintain the capital conservation buffer will result in increasingly stringent restrictions on a banking organization’s ability to make dividend payments and other capital distributions and pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The capital conservation buffer and certain other aspects of the U.S. Basel III final rule will be phased in over several years. The final rule also increases the minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4 percent to 6 percent, while maintaining the current minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8 percent. Sallie Mae Bank will also be subject to increased leverage capital requirements as its leverage ratio, Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets (minus amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital), must be at least 4 percent. Effective January 1, 2015, the final rule revises the capital categories, including the well-capitalized category, in the prompt corrective action framework applicable to insured depository institutions such as Sallie Mae Bank to reflect the higher Basel III capital ratios. If Sallie Mae Bank fails to satisfy regulatory capital or leverage capital requirements, it may be subject to serious regulatory sanctions which could also have an impact on us. If any of these sanctions were to occur, they could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Our ability to continue to grow our businesses related to contracting with state and federal governments is partly reliant on our ability to remain compliant with the laws and regulations applicable to those contracts. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations related to our government contracting businesses, including our contracts with ED. In addition, these government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations. If we were found in noncompliance with the contract provisions or applicable laws or regulations, or the government exercised its termination or other rights for that or other reasons, our reputation could be negatively affected, and our ability to compete for new contracts could be diminished. If this were to occur, the future prospects, revenues and results of operations of this portion of our business could be negatively affected. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating our risk of loss. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, control and report the types of risk to which we are subject. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures, limits and reporting requirements. Management of risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models that we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 52 