Item 1A. Risk Factors We have incurred in the past and may, in the future, incur losses, and we may not achieve and thereafter sustain profitability. We may not be able to achieve or sustain GAAP profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses on a GAAP basis in each of our last three fiscal years. As of September 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $143.2 million. In addition, we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of September 30, 2008, we had approximately $8.4 million of net identifiable intangible assets and approximately $64.4 million of goodwill. We have in the past and may in the future, incur expenses in connection with a write-down of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets due to changes in market conditions. During the year ended September 30, 2008, we did not incur any impairment charges. In addition, we have deferred tax assets which may not be fully realized, which may contribute to additional losses. We are also required to record as compensation expense in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R “Share Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”), the cost of stock-based awards. As a result, we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. 12 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on customers renewing their subscriptions for our services and purchasing additional services as well as obtaining new customers. To maintain and grow our revenue, we must achieve and maintain high customer renewal rates for our Internet and Mobile services. Our customers have no obligation to renew our products and services after the term and therefore, they could cease using our services at any time. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer services or at lower prices. Further, our customers may reduce their use of our services during the term of their subscription. We cannot project the level of renewal rates or the prices at which customers renew subscriptions. Our customer renewal rates and renewal prices may decline as a result of a number of factors, including competition, consolidations in the Internet or mobile industries or if a significant number of our customers cease operations. Further, we depend on sales of Mobile products and services to new and existing customers and sales of additional services to our existing customers. Renewals by existing customers or purchases of our services by new customers may be limited as companies limit or reduce their technology spending in response to uncertain economic conditions. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, reduced spending, cancellations, non-renewals and/or reductions in service levels. If we experience reduced renewal rates or if customers renew for a lesser amount of our services, or if customers, at any time, reduce the amount of products or services they purchase from us for any reason, our revenue could decline unless we are able to obtain additional customers or sources of revenue, sufficient to replace lost revenue. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations, and if our future results are below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If revenue or other operating results fall below our expectations, we may not be able to reduce our spending rapidly in response to the shortfall. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include those described below and elsewhere in this report: • Fluctuations of the foreign exchange rates used to prepare our consolidated financial statements; • The rate of new and renewed subscriptions to our services; • The effect of any unforeseen or unplanned operating expenses; • The amount and timing of any reductions by our customers in their usage of our services; • Our ability to increase the number of Web sites we measure and the scope of services we offer for our existing customers in a particular quarter; • Our ability to attract and retain new customers in a quarter, particularly larger enterprise customers; • The timing and service period of orders received during a quarter; • Our ability to successfully introduce new products and services to offset any reductions in revenue from services that are not as widely used or that are experiencing decreased demand such as our Internet services; • The level of sales of our Mobile products and services and timing of customer acceptance during the period; • The timing and amount of professional services revenue, which is difficult to predict because this is dependent on the number of professional services engagements in any given period, the size of these engagements, and our ability to continue our existing engagements and secure new engagements from customers; • Our ability to increase sales of each of our service lines; • The timing and amount of operating costs, including sales and marketing investments, and capital expenditures; • The timing and amount, if any, of impairment charges related to potential write-down of acquired assets in acquisitions or charges related to the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions. • Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies; and 13 Table of Contents • Future macroeconomic conditions in our domestic and international markets, as well as the level of discretionary IT spending generally. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public-market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and has recently experienced substantial declines and volatility that have affected the market prices of technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. The market for our common stock may be subject to similar fluctuations. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of events affecting other companies in the technology industry, currency fluctuations and general market conditions may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, because of the relatively low trading volume and the fact that we have 14.1 million shares outstanding at September 30, 2008, our stock price could be more volatile than companies with higher trading volumes and larger numbers of shares available for trading in the public market. If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected. We had $64.4 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2008. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it would indicate a decline in the fair value of the Company and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. We also perform an annual review, at September 30, of our goodwill to determine if it has become impaired, in which case we would write down the impaired portion of our goodwill. If we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed through various banks around the world and the current capital and credit market conditions are extremely volatile, putting pressure on the ability of banks to provide service levels and in some cases to fail, both of which would likely have an adverse affect on our ability to timely access funds. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers, as well as pressured the solvency of some financial institutions. These financial institutions, including banks, have had difficulty timely performing regular services and in some cases have failed or otherwise been largely taken over by governments. We maintain our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments with a number of financial institutions around the world. Should some or all of these financial institutions fail or otherwise be unable to timely perform requested services, we would likely have a limited ability to quickly access our cash deposited with such institutions. If we are unable to quickly access such funds, we may need to increase our use of our lines of credit or access more expensive credit, if available. If we are unable to access our cash or if we access existing or additional credit or are unable to access additional credit, it could have a negative impact on our operations. Our operating results could be harmed if sales of Internet subscriptions decline. Sales of our Internet subscription services, primarily our Application Perspective and Transaction Perspective services have generated a majority of our total revenue in the past. Revenue from our Web site Perspective Services, a single page, single device measurement, has been decreasing. If revenues from our Application Perspective and Transaction Perspective Services, multi page, multi device measurements, do not increase, we may not be able to increase our Internet revenue and our operating results could suffer if we are not able to increase revenue from other 14 Table of Contents services. Therefore, the success of our business currently depends, and for the immediate future will continue to substantially depend on sales and renewals of these Internet services If our Mobile services decline, we may not be able to grow our revenue and our results of operations will be harmed. Revenue from our Mobile services has increased from approximately $17.6 million for the year ended September 30, 2007 to approximately $28.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2008. We also experienced increased bookings during the same period. We cannot assure you that we will continue to experience similar growth rates for this business in future periods. Future growth for these services could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the market for mobile services is an emerging market and therefore it is difficult to predict the level of demand for the types of services we offer; currency rates; global economic conditions and we may not be able to successfully compete against current or new competitors in this area. Our business and our operating results could be harmed if we are not able to continue to grow revenue from our Mobile services. Improvements to the infrastructure of the Internet and mobile networks could reduce or eliminate demand for our Internet and Mobile services. The demand for our services could be reduced or eliminated if future improvements to the infrastructure of the Internet or mobile networks lead companies to conclude that the measurement and evaluation of the performance of their Web sites and services is no longer important to their business. We believe that the vendors and operators that supply and manage the underlying infrastructure still look to improve the speed, availability, reliability and consistency of the Internet. If these vendors and operators succeed in significantly improving the performance of these networks, which would result in corresponding improvements in the performance of companies’ Web sites and services, demand for our services would likely decline, which would harm our operating results. If we do not continually improve our services in response to technological changes, including changes to the Internet and mobile networks, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. The ongoing evolution of the Internet and mobile networks has led to the development of new technologies such as Internet telephony, wireless devices, wireless fidelity, and WI-FI networks. These developing technologies require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to offerings of our competitors. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new services that respond to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We must also introduce any new services as quickly as possible. The success of new services depends on several factors, including proper definition of the scope of the new services and timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of our new services. If new Internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or standards are widely adopted or if other technological changes occur, we may need to expend significant resources to adapt our services to these developments or we could lose market share or some of our services could become obsolete. We face competition that could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. The market for our services is rapidly evolving. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services that they offer. We face competition from companies that offer Internet software and services with features similar to our services such as Gomez, Hewlett-Packard, Segue Software (acquired by Borland Software) and a variety of other Internet and mobile companies that offer a combination of testing, market research capabilities and data. Customers could choose to use these services or these companies could enhance their services to offer all of the features we offer. As we expand the scope of our products and services, we expect to encounter many additional market-specific competitors. In addition, the acquisition of Mercury Interactive by Hewlett-Packard with whom we had a relationship in the past could result in additional competition for us depending on which products and services the combined company 15 Table of Contents offers in the future. Furthermore, Hewlett-Packard may find additional uses for services of Mercury Interactive which compete with our services, and as a result of its acquisition of Mercury Interactive, it may not promote our services at the same level as it had in the past which could result in a decrease in our Internet revenue. We could also face competition from other companies, which currently do not offer services similar to our services, but offer software or services related to Web analytics services, such as Webtrends, Omniture and Coremetrics, and free services that measure Web site availability. In addition, companies that sell systems Management software, such as BMC Software, CompuWare, CA-Unicenter, HP-Openview, Quest Software, Attachmate, Precise Software, and IBM’s Tivoli Unit, with some of whom we have strategic relationships, could choose to offer services similar to ours. We also face competition for our mobile services from companies such as Argogroup, Casabyte (acquired by JDS Uniphase), Agilent, Datamat and Mobile Complete. In the future, we intend to expand our service offerings and continue to measure and manage the performance of emerging technologies such as Internet telephony, wireless devices, and wireless fidelity, or WI-FI, networks and, as a result, could face competition from other companies. Some of our existing and future competitors have or may have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition in similar businesses, and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and to devote substantially more resources to technology and systems development. There are also many experienced firms that offer computer network and Internet-related consulting services. These consulting services providers include consulting companies, such as Accenture, as well as consulting divisions of large technology companies such as IBM. Because we do not have an established reputation for delivering professional services, because this area is very competitive, and because we have limited experience in delivering professional services, we may not succeed in selling these services. Increased competition may result in price reductions, increased costs of providing our services and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of a major customer could harm our operating results. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 34% of our total net revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. For each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 33% of our total net revenue. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, will renew, will not cancel or will not reduce their services and, therefore, continue to generate revenue in any future period. In addition, our customers that do not have written contracts or that have monthly renewal arrangements may terminate their services at any time with little or no penalty. If we lose a major customer or group of customers, our revenue could decline. Our investment in sales and marketing may not yield increased customers or revenue. We have invested and are continuing to invest in our sales and marketing activities to help grow our business, including hiring additional sales personnel. Typically, additional sales personnel can take time before they become productive, and our additional marketing programs may also take time before they yield additional business, if any. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful, or that these investments will yield significantly increased sales in the near or long term. Our business could be harmed by adverse economic conditions or reduced spending on information technology. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Our results could also differ materially from our 16 Table of Contents expectations since our international sales and expenses will be affected by the effects of the strength of the U.S. dollar. Other factors that could influence demand include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. Other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash balances. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. If we do not complement our direct sales force with relationships with other companies to help market our services, we may not be able to grow our business. To increase sales of services worldwide, we must complement our direct sales force with relationships with companies to help market and sell our services to their customers. If we are unable to maintain our existing marketing and distribution relationships, or fail to enter into additional relationships, we may have to devote substantially more resources to the direct sale and marketing of our services. We would also lose anticipated revenue from customer referrals and other co-marketing benefits. In the past, we have had to terminate relationships with some of our international resellers, and we may be required to terminate other reseller relationships in the future. As a result, we may have to commit resources to supplement our direct sales effort to find additional resellers in foreign countries. Our success depends in part on the ability of these companies to help market and sell our services. Our existing relationships do not, and any future relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. Therefore, they could reduce their commitment to us at any time in the future. Many of these companies have multiple relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their business. In addition, these companies generally may terminate their relationships with us, pursue other relationships with our competitors or develop or acquire products or services that compete with our services. Even if we succeed in entering into these relationships, they may not result in additional customers or revenue. We must retain qualified personnel in a competitive marketplace, or we may not be able to grow our business. We may be unable to retain our key employees, namely our management team and experienced engineers, or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees. There is substantial competition for highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. If the market does not accept our professional services, our results of operations could be harmed. Professional services revenue represented approximately 13% and 18% of total net revenue for the years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Professional services revenue has decreased in absolute dollars in the past, as was the case in fiscal 2007 and 2008, and this trend could continue. We will need to successfully market these services in order to increase professional services revenue. The market for these services is very competitive. Each professional services engagement typically spans a one- to three-month period, and therefore, it is more difficult for us to predict the amount of professional services revenue recognized in any particular quarter. Our business which includes our operating results could be harmed if we cannot increase our professional services revenue. 17 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the continued use of the Internet and mobile networks by business and consumers for e-business and communications and if usage of these networks declines, our operating results and working capital would be harmed. Because our business is based on providing Internet and Mobile services, the Internet and mobile networks must continue to be used as a means of electronic business, and communications. In addition, we believe that the use of the Internet and mobile networks for conducting business could be hindered for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: • security concerns including the potential for fraud or theft of stored data and information communicated over the Internet and mobile networks; • inconsistent quality of service, including outages of popular Web sites and mobile networks; • delay in the development or adoption of new standards; • inability to integrate business applications with the Internet; and • the need to operate with multiple and frequently incompatible products. The inability of our services to perform properly could result in loss of or delay in revenue, injury to our reputation or other harm to our business. We offer complex services, which may not perform at the level our customers expect. We have occasionally given credits to customers as a result of past problems with our service. Despite our testing, our existing or future services may not perform as expected due to unforeseen problems, which could result in loss of or delay in revenue, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs or increased service costs. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, acquire, rather than develop internally, some of our services. Upgrades to our Transaction Perspective and Application Perspective services may not perform at the level we or our customers expect. These problems could also result in tort or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from any claims through warranty disclaimers and liability-limitation clauses in our customer agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Furthermore, although we maintain errors and omissions insurance, this insurance coverage may not adequately cover us for claims. If a court refused to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arose that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, we could be required to pay damages. A disruption to our network infrastructure could impair our ability to serve and retain existing customers or attract new customers All data collected from our measurement computers are generally stored in and distributed from our operations center, which we maintain at a single location. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are located at our corporate headquarters in San Mateo, California, which is an area susceptible to earthquakes and possible power outages. We have occasionally experienced outages of our services in the past and if we experience power outages at our operations centers, we might not be able to promptly receive data from our measurement computers and we might not be able to deliver our services to our customers on a timely basis. Although we maintain insurance against fires, earthquakes and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. If our operations centers is damaged, this could disrupt our services, which could impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Any outage for any period of time or loss of customer data could cause us to lose customers. Our operations systems are also vulnerable to damage from break-ins, computer viruses, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Our insurance may not be adequate in any particular case. 18 Table of Contents Individuals who attempt to breach our network security, such as hackers, could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to breach our network security. In addition to intentional security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Our measurement computers and mobile devices are located at sites that we do not own or operate, and it could be difficult for us to maintain or repair them if they do not function properly. Our measurement computers and mobile devices that we use to provide many of our services are located at facilities that are not owned by our customers or us. Instead, these devices are installed at locations near various Internet access points worldwide. We do not own or operate the facilities, and we have little control over how these devices are maintained on a day-to-day basis. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with the companies that operate the facilities where our measurement computers are located. We may have to find new locations for these computers if we are unable to develop relationships with these companies or if these companies cease their operations as some have done due to bankruptcies or are acquired. In addition, if our measurement computers and mobile devices cease to function properly, we may not be able to repair or service these computers on a timely basis, as we may not have immediate access to our measurement computers and measurement devices. Our ability to collect data in a timely manner could be impaired if we are unable to maintain and repair our computers and devices should performance problems arise. Others might bring infringement claims which could harm our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could become subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our services overlap with competitive offerings. In addition, we are also subject to other legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management’s attention from operating our company. If we become liable to others for infringement of their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop noninfringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the services that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our business which includes our operating results and financial conditions will be susceptible to additional risks associated with international operations. We derive a growing portion of our revenue and earnings from our international operations. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries and the negative tax implications related to moving cash from international locations to the U.S.), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of our products and services in foreign countries could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate mainly to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies would generally be beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. International sales were approximately 43% and 31% our total net revenue for the year ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect to continue to commit our resources to expand our international sales and marketing activities. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks we do not face in the United States. These include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; 19 Table of Contents • seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • maintaining and servicing computer hardware in distant locations; • costs associated with repatriating funds from outside the U.S.; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • political or economic instability, war or terrorism in the countries where we are doing business. The Internet may not be used as widely in other countries and the adoption of e-business may evolve slowly or may not evolve at all. As a result, we may not be successful in selling our services to customers in markets outside the United States. Industry consolidation may lead to stronger competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, HP acquired Mercury Interactive, one of our prior competitors, and Borland acquired Seque. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could also lead to fewer customers and partners, with the effect that loss of a major customer could harm our revenue. Failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC and adversely affect our stock price. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. We may face difficulties assimilating, and may incur costs associated with, any future acquisitions. We have completed several acquisitions, and as a part of our business strategy we may seek to acquire or invest in additional businesses, products or technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. Future acquisitions could create risks for us, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired personnel, operations and technologies; • difficulties in managing a larger organization with geographically dispersed operations; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition or incurring of additional unknown liabilities; 20 Table of Contents • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • entry in new businesses in which we have little direct experience; • difficulties in marketing additional services to the acquired companies’ customer base or to our customer base; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with resellers of our services, our customers and other business partners; • the need to integrate or enhance the systems of an acquired business; • impairment charges related to potential write-down of acquired assets in acquisitions; • failure to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash or dilution in equity if stock is used to consummate the acquisition and/or operate the acquired business. We have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include: • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting and not by written consent; • our Board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; and • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer or our President, not by our stockholders. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. The rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the rights plan, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock by a person or group. In addition, it is the policy of our Board of Directors that a committee consisting solely of independent directors will review the rights plan at least once every three years to consider whether maintaining the rights plan continues to be in the best interests of Keynote and our stockholders. The Board may amend the terms of the rights without the approval of the holders of the rights. If we are unable to raise additional capital, our business could be harmed. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and short term investments will enable us to meet our capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if cash is required for unanticipated needs, we may need additional capital during that period. If the market for our products develops at a slower pace than anticipated, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we were unable to raise additional capital when required, our business could be seriously harmed. If the protection of our proprietary technology is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our market share could decline. Our success is heavily dependent on our ability to create proprietary technology and to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in that technology, as well as our ability to defend against adverse claims of third parties with respect to our technology and intellectual property. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, and patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great 21 Table of Contents an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and unauthorized third parties, including our competitors, may independently develop similar or superior technology, duplicate or reverse engineer aspects of our products, or design around our patented technology or other intellectual property. There can be no assurance or guarantee that any products, services or technologies that we are presently developing, or will develop in the future, will result in intellectual property that is subject to legal protection under the laws of the United States or a foreign jurisdiction and that produces a competitive advantage for us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 