Risk factors relating to the merger agreement with JOC North America LLC (“JOC”): a. Failure to consummate or any delay in consummating the merger with JOC North America LLC, announced on May 17, 2013, for any reason could materially and adversely affect our operations and our stock price. If the merger with JOC North America LLC is not consummated for any reason, including the failure of our stockholders to adopt the merger agreement with JOC North America LLC or if there is a delay in the consummation of the merger, we will be subject to a number of material risks, including, among other things: • we could be required to pay to JOC North America LLC a termination fee of $250,000 under certain circumstances as set forth in the merger agreement; • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be consummated; • the possibility exists that certain key employees may terminate their employment with us as a result of the proposed merger with JOC North America LLC even if the proposed merger is not ultimately consummated; • the diversion of management’s attention away from our day-to-day business, limitations on the conduct of our business prior to completing the merger, and other restrictive covenants contained in the merger agreement that may impact the manner in which our management is able to conduct the business of the company during the period prior to the consummation of the merger and the unavoidable disruption to our employees and our relationships with customers and suppliers during the period prior to the consummation of the merger, may make it difficult for us to regain our financial and market position if the merger does not occur; and • our financial condition could continue to deteriorate and, as a result, we may have to cease operations and file bankruptcy. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated and our board of directors determines to seek another business combination, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find another partner, and even if we do that, the new partner will agree to provide consideration similar to the consideration to be provided in the merger with JOC North America LLC. b. Potential legal proceedings in connection with the merger agreement with JOC North America LLC (“JOC”) could adversely affect our business and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. Class action lawsuits may be filed by third parties challenging our contemplated merger with JOC. If not ultimately dismissed, these lawsuits could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. 9 Table of Contents 3. Our ability to borrow funds for working capital purposes is limited. The Company maintains a credit facility agreement (the “Agreement”) with Rosenthal & Rosenthal, Inc. (“Rosenthal”). The Agreement does not contain explicit financial covenants, the Agreement allows the Company’s lender significant latitude to restrict, reduce or eliminate the Company’s access to credit or require the Company to repay any and all amounts outstanding under the Agreement. If Rosenthal restricts, reduces or eliminates the Company’s access to credit, or requires immediate repayment of the amounts outstanding under the Agreement, the Company would be required to pursue additional or alternative sources of liquidity such as equity financings, a new debt agreement with other creditors, seek strategic alternatives or liquidate assets. However, the Company cannot assure that any such additional sources of liquidity would be available on reasonable terms, if at all. The initial term of the credit facility with Rosenthal is through November 30, 2015 and can be renewed thereafter. The credit facility can be terminated by the Company or Rosenthal with at least 60 days, but not more than 120 days, notice except in case of a default, in which case Rosenthal can terminate the Agreement at any time. 4. Our business may be negatively impacted as a result of changes in the economy. The United States and global economies have been in a state of recession. Our business depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending that affect not only the end consumer, but also retailers who are our direct customers. Purchases of consumer optics decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, when consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items, declines. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, or improve our operating results as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be materially adversely affected by downward trends in the economy or the occurrence of events that adversely affect the economy in general. 5. We depend on our key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. Our future success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, technical, financial, accounting and operational personnel, including Steven G. Murdock, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled managerial and technical resources. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. In addition, we have experienced several years of staff reductions and many of our employees have not received any pay increases for several years and this could have a negative impact on employee recruiting and retention. 6. We rely on independent contract manufacturers and, as a result, we are exposed to potential disruptions in product supply. All of our consumer optics products with retail prices under $500 are currently manufactured by independent contract manufacturers principally located in China. We do not have long-term contracts with our Chinese manufacturers, and we compete with other consumer optics companies for production facilities. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties with these manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet our quality control standards, failure to meet production deadlines and increased manufacturing costs. Some manufacturers in China have faced labor shortages and wage inflation as migrant workers seek better wages and working conditions. In addition, the increase in certain commodity prices has increased production costs for our manufacturers. If these trends continue, our current manufacturers’ operations could be adversely affected. If any of our current manufacturers modify their payment terms or cease doing business with us, we could experience an interruption in the supply or manufacture of our products. Although we believe that we could find 10 Table of Contents alternative manufacturers, we may be unable to establish relationships with alternative manufacturers that will be as favorable as the relationships we have now. For example, new manufacturers may have higher prices, less favorable payment terms, lower manufacturing capacity, lower quality standards or higher lead times for delivery. If we are unable to provide products to our customers that are consistent with our standards or the manufacture of our products is delayed or becomes more expensive, this could result in our customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or demanding reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7. Our future success depends upon our ability to respond to changing consumer demands and successfully develop and market new products. The consumer optics industry is subject to changing consumer demands and technology trends. Accordingly, we must identify those trends and respond in a timely manner. Demand for and market acceptance of new products are uncertain, and achieving market acceptance for new products generally requires substantial product development and marketing efforts and expenditures. Due to our reductions in headcount and our reduced resources, we may not be able to invest as much in product development and marketing. If we do not continue to meet changing consumer demands and develop successful products in the future, our growth and profitability will be negatively impacted. We frequently make decisions about product designs and marketing expenditures several months to years in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be determined. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in trends or we are not successful in marketing new products, we could experience excess inventories, higher than normal markdowns or an inability to profitably sell our products. Because of these risks, the consumer optics industry has experienced periods of growth in revenues and earnings and thereafter periods of declining sales and losses. Similarly, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 8. Our business and the success of our products could be harmed if we are unable to maintain our brand image. Our principal brands include Meade® and Coronado®. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, our brand names and brand images may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider these brands to be outdated or undesirable. If we fail to maintain and develop our principal brands, our sales and profitability will be adversely affected. 9. We depend upon a relatively small group of customers for a large portion of our sales. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, those customers do not have contractual obligations to purchase our products and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing major customers. Furthermore, the retail industry regularly experiences consolidation, contractions and closings which may result in a loss of customers or the loss of our ability to collect accounts receivable from major customers in excess of amounts that we have insured. If we lose a major customer, experience a significant decrease in sales to a major customer or are unable to collect the accounts receivable of a major customer in excess of amounts insured, our business could be significantly harmed. 10. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain appropriate inventory levels. We place orders with suppliers for many of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We, at times, also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a 11 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our suppliers fail to supply the products that we require with the quality and at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to our customers, negatively impact our retailer and distributor relationships, reduce future orders from customers and diminish brand loyalty. 11. The disruption, expense and potential liability associated with any litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time. Any litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees being borne by us. Further, there can be no assurance that any actions that have been or will be brought against us will be resolved in our favor or, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, that we will have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruptions, legal fees and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 12. We have divested significant portions of our business and are now a less diversified enterprise focused primarily on telescopes. The lack of a diversified business makes us more exposed to volatility in the telescope market, which is highly discretionary in nature and has been contracting. During fiscal 2009, we divested our Simmons, Weaver and Redfield sports optics business as well as our European operations. Each of these businesses had contributed profit to the Company and diversified our sources of revenue and income. As a result, our business is now more dependent on the sale of telescopes, the market for which is highly discretionary and competitive in nature and has been contracting. If the telescope market continues to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, the sale of the divested businesses also generated significant amounts of cash for the Company. The Company has few remaining divestiture options should the need arise to raise additional cash, further limiting the Company’s ability to raise additional cash should the need arise. 13. We face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources, and, if we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. We face intense competition from other established companies. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the consumer optics market, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the consumer optics industry. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the type and quality of our products and the strength of our brand names, as well as many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand the development and marketing of new products, any of which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents 14. Our international sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, particularly in China and Mexico, which could affect our ability to sell or manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control product costs. Nearly all of our products are now manufactured in foreign countries—primarily Mexico and China. We also sell our products in several foreign countries. Foreign manufacturing and sales are subject to a number of risks, including the following: political and social unrest; changing economic conditions; currency exchange rate fluctuations; international political tension and terrorism; labor shortages and work stoppages; electrical shortages; transportation delays; loss or damage to products in transit; expropriation; nationalization; the imposition of domestic and international tariffs and trade duties, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers; exposure to different legal standards (particularly with respect to intellectual property); compliance with foreign laws; and changes in domestic and foreign governmental policies. In addition, there has been a significant increase in violence in Mexico due to the Mexican government’s attempts to stop the illegal drug trade. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risks, but we cannot predict the likelihood of such developments occurring or the resulting long-term adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, because our products are manufactured in China and Mexico, adverse changes in trade or political relations with these countries, political instability, the occurrence of a natural disaster such as an earthquake or hurricane or the outbreak of pandemic diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), the Avian Flu or the Swine Flu could severely interfere with the manufacture of our products in these countries and would have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, electrical shortages, labor shortages or work stoppages may extend the production time necessary to produce our orders, and there may be circumstances in the future where we may have to incur premium freight charges to expedite the delivery of product to our customers. If we incur a significant amount of premium charges to airfreight product for our customers, gross profit will be negatively affected if we are unable to pass those charges on to our customers. Also, the manufacturers of our products that are located in China may be subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations should the Chinese currency not remain stable with the U.S. dollar. The value of the Yuan, the Chinese currency depends to a large extent on the Chinese government’s policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments. The valuation of the Yuan may increase/decrease incrementally over time should the Chinese central bank allow it to do so, which could significantly increase/decrease labor and other costs incurred in the production of our products in China. 15. Our business could be harmed if our contract manufacturers or suppliers violate labor, trade or other laws. We require our independent contract manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable United States and foreign laws and regulations. Manufacturers may not use convicted, forced or indentured labor (as defined under United States law) nor child labor (as defined by the manufacturer’s country) in the production process. Compensation must be paid in accordance with local law, and factories must be in compliance with local safety regulations. Although we promote ethical business practices and send sourcing personnel periodically to visit and monitor the operations of our independent contract manufacturers, we do not control them or their labor practices. If one of our independent contract manufacturers violates labor or other laws or diverges from those labor practices generally accepted as ethical in the United States, it could result in the loss of certain of our major customers, adverse publicity for us, damage our reputation in the United States or render our conduct of business in a particular foreign country undesirable or impractical, any of which could harm our business. In addition, if we, or our foreign manufacturers, violate United States or foreign trade laws or regulations, we may be subject to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and the forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. Possible violations of United States or foreign laws or regulations could include inadequate record keeping of imported products, misstatements or errors as to 13 Table of Contents the origin, quota category, classification, marketing or valuation of our imported products, fraudulent visas or labor violations. The effects of these factors could render our conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. 16. Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonal fluctuations in the demand for consumer optics, delivery date delays and potential fluctuations in our annualized tax rate, which may result in volatility of our stock price. Our quarterly revenues and net operating results have varied significantly in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts and may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales or net operating results. In addition, sales of consumer optics have historically been seasonal in nature and tied to the winter holiday shopping season, with the strongest sales generally occurring in our third fiscal quarter. Holiday shopping sales typically begin to ship in August, and delays in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of the related orders by our wholesale customers could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations. More specifically, the timing of when products are shipped is determined by the delivery schedules set by our wholesale customers, which could cause sales to shift between our second, third and fourth quarters. Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future net sales, expenses may be disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shifts or shortfalls, which could have a material adverse effect on our net operating results. Also, our annualized tax rate is based upon projections of our operating results for the year, which are reviewed and revised by management as necessary at the end of each quarter, and it is highly sensitive to fluctuations in the projected mix of earnings. Any quarterly fluctuations in our annualized tax rate that may occur could have a material impact on our quarterly net operating results. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our net operating results vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be necessarily indicative of results for the full year which may lead to volatility in our stock price. 17. Changes in currency exchange rates could affect our revenues and operating results. A significant portion of our production is accomplished offshore, principally in China. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of Europe and Asia could make our products less competitive in foreign markets. Additionally, such fluctuations could result in an increase in cost of products sold in foreign markets, reducing margins and earnings. 18. We may not be able to raise additional funds when needed for our business or to exploit opportunities. We may need to raise additional funds to maintain sufficient working capital, support expansion, develop new technologies, respond to competitive pressures, or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If required, we will seek to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. However, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and such financing, if obtained, would be dilutive to our stockholders. 19. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we are sued for intellectual property infringement. We use trademarks on virtually all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our products, in identifying the Company and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our Meade® and Coronado® trademarks and brand names to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in many countries. In addition, we own many other trademarks and trade names, which we utilize in marketing our products. We 14 Table of Contents continue to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement. We also have a number of utility patents and design patents covering components and features used in many of our telescopes, binoculars and other products. We believe our success depends more upon skills in design, research and development, production and marketing rather than upon our patent position. However, we have followed a policy of filing applications for United States and foreign patents on designs and technologies that we deem valuable as critical contributors to our business. 20. Our trademarks, design patents, utility patents and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the United States. We believe that our trademarks, design patents, utility patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, design patents and utility patents on a worldwide basis. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights outside the United States will be adequate to prevent infringement of our technologies or trade names by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot assure that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks, patents, designs and other proprietary rights or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. 21. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring public companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We, like all other public companies, are incurring expenses and diverting management’s time in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”). We are required to assess our compliance with Section 404 and we believe we have devoted the necessary resources, including additional internal and supplemental external resources, to support our assessment. However, if in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses, this could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. 22. Our charter and bylaws, as well as applicable corporate laws, could limit the ability of others to take over management control of the Company. We will have the ability to issue preferred stock, which could adversely affect the rights of holders of our Common Stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for: • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations, • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, and • limitations on calling Stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging certain attempts to acquire the Company, which could deprive our stockholders of the opportunity to sell their shares of Common Stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. In addition, our Board of Directors has authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the 15 Table of Contents stockholders. The rights of the holders of our Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could affect adversely the voting power of holders of our Common Stock and the likelihood that such holders will receive dividend payments and payments upon liquidation. Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company, may discourage bids for our Common Stock at a premium over the market price of the Common Stock and may affect adversely the market price of and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Common Stock. 