Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities involve a variety of risks. Below we describe the significant risk factors affecting our business. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us — other risks also could impact our business. Funding and Liquidity. Our business is affected by funding constraints in the credit market and dependence on various government funding sources, and the interest rate characteristics of our earning assets do not always match the interest rate characteristics of our funding arrangements. These factors may increase the price of or decrease our ability to obtain liquidity as well expose us to basis risk and repricing. The capital markets are experiencing a prolonged period of volatility. This volatility has had varying degrees of impact on most financial organizations. These conditions have impacted the Company’s access to and cost of capital necessary to manage our business. Additional factors that could make financing difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms include, but are not limited to, financial results and losses of the Company, changes within our organization, events that have an adverse impact on our reputation, changes in the activities of our business partners, events that have an adverse impact on the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, corporate and regulatory actions, absolute and comparative interest rate changes, ratings agencies’ actions, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Our business is also affected by various government funding sources and funding constraints in the capital markets. Funding for new FFELP loan originations is currently dependent to a large degree on financial programs established by the federal government. These programs are described in the “LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES” section of this Form 10-K. These federal programs are not permanent and may not be extended past their expiration dates. There is no assurance that the capital markets will be able to totally support FFELP loan originations beyond the time these programs are presently scheduled to end. Upon termination of the government programs mentioned, if cost effective funding sources were not available, we could be compelled to reduce or suspend the origination of new FFELP loans. FFELP loans originated under the government programs mentioned above must be re-financed or sold to the government by a date determined under the terms of the programs. It is our intention to sell these loans to the government under the terms of the programs. During 2009, the Company funded private, non-federally guaranteed loan originations primarily through term brokered deposits raised by Sallie Mae Bank. Assets funded in this manner result in re-financing risk because the average term of the deposits is shorter than the expected term of some of the same assets. There is no assurance that this or other sources of funding, such as the term asset-backed securities market, will be available at a level and a cost that makes new Private Education Loan originations possible or profitable, nor is there any assurance that the loans can be re-financed at profitable margins. At some time, the Company may decide that it is prudent or necessary to raise additional equity capital through the sale of common stock, preferred stock, or securities that convert into common stock. There are no restrictions on entering into the sale of any equity securities in either public or private transactions, except that any private transaction involving more than 20 percent of shares outstanding requires shareholder approval and any holder owning more than 10 percent of our fully diluted shares requires approval of the FDIC relating to a change of control of our Bank. Under current market conditions, the terms of an equity transaction may subject existing security holders to potential subordination or dilution and may involve a change in governance. The interest rate characteristics of our earning assets do not always match the interest rate characteristics of our funding arrangements. This mismatch exposes us to risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk. While most of such basis risks are hedged using interest rate swap contracts, such hedges are not always perfect matches and, therefore, may result in losses. While the asset and hedge indices are short-term with rate movements that are typically highly correlated, there can be no assurance that the historically high correlation will not be disrupted by capital market dislocations or other factors not within our control. For instance, as a result of the turmoil in the capital markets, the historically tight spread between CP and LIBOR began to widen dramatically in the fourth 11 quarter of 2008. It subsequently reverted to more normal levels beginning in the third quarter of 2009 and has been stable since then. In such circumstances, our earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the markets or trigger obligations under certain provisions in collateralized arrangements. Under these provisions, counterparties may require us to segregate collateral or terminate certain contracts. Economic Conditions. We may be adversely affected by deterioration in economic conditions. We may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions. A continuation of the current downturn in the economy, or a further deterioration, could result in lessened demand for consumer credit and credit quality could continue to be impacted. Adverse economic conditions may result in declines in collateral values. Higher credit-related losses and weaker credit quality could impact our financial position and limit funding options, including capital markets activity, which could adversely impact the Company’s liquidity position. Operations. A failure of our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors, could disrupt our business, result in disclosure of confidential customer information, damage our reputation and cause losses. A failure of our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors, could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. These transactions must be processed in compliance with legal and regulatory standards and our product specifications, which we change to reflect our business needs. As processing demands change and grow, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. Our loan originations and servicing, financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to service our clients, result in financial loss or liability to our clients, disrupt our business, result in regulatory action or cause reputational damage. Despite the plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, a disruptive event impacting our processing locations could negatively affect our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal, confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, malicious attacks and other events that could have a security impact beyond our control. If one or more of such events occur, personal, confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, could be jeopardized or otherwise interruptions or malfunctions in our operations could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information, some through third parties. We have put in place secure transmission capability, and work to ensure third parties follow similar procedures. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. 12 Political. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the FFELP and consumer lending could affect the profitability of our business. Changes in laws and regulations that affect our businesses, including our FFELP and private credit education lending and debt collection businesses, could affect the profitability and viability of our Company. During September 2009, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (“SAFRA”), which would eliminate the FFELP and require that, after July 1, 2010, all new federal student loans be made through the Direct Student Loan Program. There are several proposals in the Senate, including SAFRA and related proposals, and an alternative proposal submitted by Senator Casey to the Congressional Budget Office for scoring, which maintains a structure similar to the Community Proposal but reduces the purchase fee from $75 to $55. The Administration’s budget for the 2011 fiscal year, submitted to Congress on February 1, 2010, includes proposals consistent with SAFRA that could negatively impact the FFELP. The Obama Administration’s (the “Administration”) budget request and the current economic environment may make legislative changes more likely, making this risk to our business greater. The Administration has also proposed a financial responsibility tax for financial institutions which may also impact the Company. Competition. We operate in a competitive environment, and our product offerings are primarily concentrated in loan and savings products for higher education. The education loan business is highly competitive. We compete in the FFELP business and the private credit lending business with banks and other consumer lending institutions, many with strong consumer brand name recognition. We compete based on our products, origination capability and customer service. To the extent our competitors compete aggressively or more effectively, including with private credit loan products that are more accepted than ours or lower private credit pricing, we could lose market share to them or subject our existing loans to refinancing risk. We are a leading provider of saving- and paying-for-college products and programs. This concentration gives us a competitive advantage in the market place. This concentration also creates risks in our business, particularly in light of our concentration as a FFELP and private credit lender and servicer for the FFELP and DSLP. The market for federally-guaranteed student loans is shared among the Company and other private sector lenders who participate in the FFELP, and the federal government through the DSLP. The market for private credit loans is shared among many banks and financial institutions. If population demographics result in a decrease in college-age individuals, if demand for higher education decreases, if the cost of attendance of higher education decreases, if public support for higher education costs increases, or if the demand for higher education loans decreases or increases from one product to another, our FFELP and private credit lending business could be negatively affected. In addition, if we introduce new education or other loan products, there is a risk that those new products will not be accepted in the marketplace. We might not have other profitable product offerings that offset loss of business in the education credit market. Credit and Counterparty. Unexpected and sharp changes in the overall economic environment may negatively impact the performance of our credit portfolio. Unexpected changes in the overall economic environment may result in the credit performance of our loan portfolio being materially different from what we expect. Our earnings are critically dependent on the evolving creditworthiness of our student loan customers. We maintain a reserve for credit losses based on expected future charge-offs which consider many factors, including levels of past due loans and forbearances and expected economic conditions. However, management’s determination of the appropriate reserve level may under- or over-estimate future losses. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if a market risk changes significantly, or if our reserves for credit losses are not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In addition to the credit risk associated with our education loan customers, we are also subject to the creditworthiness of other third parties, including counterparties to our derivative transactions. For example, we 13 have exposure to the financial condition of various lending, investment and derivative counterparties. If any of our counterparties is unable to perform its obligations, we would, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. In addition, we might not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment, and thus be exposed to a greater level of interest rate and/or foreign currency exchange rate risk which could lead to additional losses. The Company’s counterparty exposure is more fully discussed herein in “LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Counterparty Exposure.” Regulatory and Compliance. Our businesses are regulated by various state and federal laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, sanctions and/or litigation. Our businesses are subject to numerous state and federal laws and regulations and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, including litigation costs, and/or business sanctions. Our private credit lending and debt collection business are subject to regulation and oversight by various state and federal agencies, particularly in the area of consumer protection regulation. Some state attorneys general have been active in this area of consumer protection. We are subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators as well as frequent litigation from private plaintiffs. Sallie Mae Bank is subject to state and FDIC regulation, oversight and regular examination. At the time of this filing, Sallie Mae Bank was the subject of a cease and desist order for weaknesses in its compliance function. While the issues addressed in the order have largely been remediated, the order has not yet been lifted. Our failure to comply with various laws and regulations or with the terms of the cease and desist order or to have issues raised during an examination could result in litigation expenses, fines, business sanctions, limitations on our ability to fund our Private Education Loans, which are currently funded by term deposits issued by Sallie Mae Bank, or restrictions on the operations of Sallie Mae Bank. Loans originated and serviced under the FFELP are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. A summary of the program, which indicates its complexity and frequent changes, may be found in APPENDIX A, “FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN PROGRAM” of this Form 10-K. We continually update our FFELP loan originations and servicing policies and procedures and our systems technologies, provide training to our staff and maintain quality control over processes through compliance reviews and internal and external audits. We are at risk, however, for misinterpretation of ED guidance and incorrect application of ED regulations and policies, which could result in fines, the loss of the federal guarantee on FFELP loans, or limits on our participation in the FFELP. Reliance on Estimates. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. A description of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions may be found in “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES” in this Form 10-K. If we make incorrect assumptions or estimates, we may under- or overstate reported financial results, which could result in actual results being significantly different than current estimates which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 