Item 1A. Risk Factors We have incurred in the past and may in the future continue to incur losses, and we may not achieve and thereafter sustain profitability. We may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses in each of our last two fiscal years and as of September 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $140.2 million. In addition, we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of September 30, 2007, we had approximately $8.0 million of net identifiable intangible assets and approximately $63.1 million of goodwill. We have in the past and may in the future, incur expenses in connection with a write-down of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets due to changes in market conditions. In addition, we have deferred tax assets which may not be fully realized. We are also required to record as compensation expense in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R “Share Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”), the cost of stock-based awards. As a result, we may not be able to achieve and sustain profitability. The success of our business depends on customers renewing their subscriptions for our services and purchasing additional services. To maintain and grow our revenue, we must achieve and maintain high customer renewal rates for our ITM and MTM services. Our customers have no obligation to renew our services after the term and therefore, they could cease using our services at any time. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer services or at lower prices. Further, our customers may reduce their use of our services during the term of their subscription. We cannot project the level of renewal rates or the prices at which customers renew subscriptions. Our customer renewal rates and renewal prices may decline as a result of a number of factors, including competition, consolidations in the Internet or mobile industries or if a significant number of our customers cease operations. Further, we depend on sales to new customers and sales of additional services to our existing customers. Renewals by existing customers or purchases of our services by new customers may be limited as companies limit or reduce their technology spending in response to uncertain economic conditions. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, cancellations, non-renewals and/or reductions in service levels. If we experience reduced renewal rates or if customers renew for a lesser amount of our services, or if customers, at any time, reduce the amount of services they purchase from us for any reason, our revenue could decline unless we are able to obtain additional customers or sources of revenue, sufficient to replace lost revenue. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations, and if our future results are below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If revenue falls below our expectations, we may not be able to reduce our spending rapidly in response to the shortfall. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include those described below and elsewhere in this report: • The rate of new and renewed subscriptions to our services; • The effect of any unforeseen or unplanned operating expenses; 13 Table of Contents • The amount and timing of any reductions by our customers in their usage of our services; • Our ability to increase the number of Web sites we measure and the scope of services we offer for our existing customers in a particular quarter; • Our ability to attract and retain new customers in a quarter, particularly larger enterprise customers; • The timing and service period of orders received during a quarter; • Our ability to successfully introduce new products and services to offset any reductions in revenue from services that are not as widely used or that are experiencing decreased demand such as our CEM services; • The level of sales of our MTM services; • The timing and amount of professional services revenue, which is difficult to predict because this is dependent on the number of professional services engagements in any given period, the size of these engagements, and our ability to continue our existing engagements and secure new engagements from customers; • Our ability to increase sales of each of our three service lines; • The timing and amount of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to changes of our domestic and international operations infrastructure; and • The timing and amount, if any, of impairment charges related to potential write-down of acquired assets in acquisitions or charges related to the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public-market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. Our operating results could be harmed if sales of ITM subscriptions decline. Sales of our ITM subscription services, primarily our Web Site Perspective-Business Edition, Application Perspective and Transaction Perspective services, have generated a majority of our total revenue in the past. Therefore, the success of our business currently depends, and for the immediate future will continue to substantially depend, on sales and renewals of these ITM services. Our ITM subscriptions revenue has not increased significantly from historic levels. If these revenue trends continue with respect to our ITM subscriptions services, our operating results could suffer if we are not able to increase revenue from other services. If our MTM services do not continue to grow as rapidly, we may not be able to grow our revenue and our profitability could be harmed. Revenue from our MTM services has increased from approximately $5.4 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 to approximately $17.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. We also experienced increased bookings during the same period. We cannot assure that we will continue to experience similar growth rates for this business in future periods. Future growth for these services could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: we have little experience operating in Germany where Keynote SIGOS is located; the market for mobile services is an emerging market and therefore it is difficult to predict the level of demand for the types of services we offer; and we may not be able to successfully compete against current or new competitors in this area. Our business which includes our operating results could be harmed if we are not able to continue to grow revenue from our MTM services. Improvements to the infrastructure of the Internet and mobile networks could reduce or eliminate demand for our ITM and MTM services. The demand for our services could be reduced or eliminated if future improvements to the infrastructure of the Internet or mobile networks lead companies to conclude that the measurement and evaluation of the performance of 14 Table of Contents their Web sites and services is no longer important to their business. We believe that the vendors and operators that supply and manage the underlying infrastructure still look to improve the speed, availability, reliability and consistency of the Internet. If these vendors and operators succeed in significantly improving the performance of these networks, which would result in corresponding improvements in the performance of companies’ Web sites and services, demand for our services would likely decline, which would harm our operating results. If we do not continually improve our services in response to technological changes, including changes to the Internet and mobile networks, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. The ongoing evolution of the Internet and mobile networks has led to the development of new technologies such as Internet telephony, wireless devices, wireless fidelity, and WI-FI networks. These developing technologies require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to offerings of our competitors. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new services that respond to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We must also introduce any new services as quickly as possible. The success of new services depends on several factors, including proper definition of the scope of the new services and timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of our new services. If new Internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or standards are widely adopted or if other technological changes occur, we may need to expend significant resources to adapt our services to these developments or we could lose market share or some of our services could become obsolete. We face competition that could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. The market for our services is rapidly evolving. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services that they offer. We face competition from companies that offer Internet software and services with features similar to our services such as Gomez, Mercury Interactive (recently acquired by Hewlett-Packard), Segue Software (recently acquired by Borland Software) and a variety of other CEM and mobile companies that offer a combination of testing, market research capabilities and data. Customers could choose to use these services or these companies could enhance their services to offer all of the features we offer. As we expand the scope of our products and services, we expect to encounter many additional market-specific competitors. In addition, the acquisition of Mercury Interactive by Hewlett-Packard with whom we have a relationship could result in additional competition for us depending on which products and services the combined company offers in the future. Furthermore, Hewlett-Packard may find additional uses for services of Mercury Interactive which compete with our services, and as a result of its acquisition of Mercury Interactive, it may not promote our services at the same level as it had in the past which could result in a decrease in our ITM revenue. We could also face competition from other companies, which currently do not offer services similar to our services, but offer software or services related to Web analytics services, such as Webtrends, Omniture and Coremetrics, and free services that measure Web site availability. In addition, companies that sell systems Management software, such as BMC Software, CompuWare, CA-Unicenter, HP-Openview, Quest Software, NetIQ, Symantec’s Precise Software, and IBM’s Tivoli Unit, with some of whom we have strategic relationships, could choose to offer services similar to ours. We also face competition for our wireless services from companies such as Argogroup, Casabyte (acquired by JDS Uniphase), Agilent, Datamat and Mobile Complete. In the future, we intend to expand our service offerings and continue to measure and manage the performance of emerging technologies such as Internet telephony, wireless devices, and wireless fidelity, or WI-FI, networks and, as a result, could face competition from other companies. Some of our existing and future competitors have or may have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition in similar businesses, and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and to devote substantially more resources to technology and systems development. There are also many experienced firms that offer computer network and Internet-related consulting services. These consulting services providers include consulting companies, such as Accenture, as well as consulting 15 Table of Contents divisions of large technology companies such as IBM. Because we do not have an established reputation for delivering professional services, because this area is very competitive, and because we have limited experience in delivering professional services, we may not succeed in selling these services. Increased competition may result in price reductions, increased costs of providing our services and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of a major customer could harm our operating results. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 33% of our total revenue for each of the fiscal years 2007 and 2006. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, will renew, will not cancel or will not reduce their services and, therefore, continue to generate revenue in any future period. In addition, our customers that do not have written contracts or that have monthly renewal arrangements may terminate their services at any time with little or no penalty. If we lose a major customer or group of customers, our revenue could decline. If we do not complement our direct sales force with relationships with other companies to help market our services, we may not be able to grow our business. To increase sales of services worldwide, we must complement our direct sales force with relationships with companies to help market and sell our services to their customers. If we are unable to maintain our existing marketing and distribution relationships, or fail to enter into additional relationships, we may have to devote substantially more resources to the direct sale and marketing of our services. We would also lose anticipated revenue from customer referrals and other co-marketing benefits. In the past, we have had to terminate relationships with some of our international resellers, and we may be required to terminate other reseller relationships in the future. As a result, we may have to commit resources to supplement our direct sales effort to find additional resellers in foreign countries. Our success depends in part on the ability of these companies to help market and sell our services. Our existing relationships do not, and any future relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. Therefore, they could reduce their commitment to us at any time in the future. Many of these companies have multiple relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their business. In addition, these companies generally may terminate their relationships with us, pursue other relationships with our competitors or develop or acquire products or services that compete with our services. Even if we succeed in entering into these relationships, they may not result in additional customers or revenue. We must retain qualified personnel in a competitive marketplace, or we may not be able to grow our business. We may be unable to retain our key employees, namely our management team and experienced engineers, or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees. There is substantial competition for highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. If the market does not accept our professional services, our results of operations could be harmed. Professional services revenue represented approximately 17% and 22% of total revenue for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Professional services revenue has decreased in absolute dollars in the past, as was the case in fiscal 2007, and this trend could continue. We will need to successfully market these services in order to increase professional services revenue. The market for these services is very competitive. Each professional services engagement typically spans a one- to three-month period, and therefore, it is more difficult for us to predict the amount of professional services revenue recognized in any particular quarter. Our business which includes our operating results could be harmed if we cannot increase our professional services revenue. 16 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the continued use of the Internet and mobile networks by business and consumers for e-business and communications and if usage of these networks declines, our operating results and working capital would be harmed. Because our business is based on providing ITM, MTM, and CEM services, the Internet and mobile networks must continue to be used as a means of electronic business, or e-business, and communications. In addition, we believe that the use of the Internet and mobile networks for conducting business could be hindered for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: • security concerns including the potential for fraud or theft of stored data and information communicated over the Internet and mobile networks; • inconsistent quality of service, including outages of popular Web sites and mobile networks; • delay in the development or adoption of new standards; • inability to integrate business applications with the Internet; and • the need to operate with multiple and frequently incompatible products. The inability of our services to perform properly could result in loss of or delay in revenue, injury to our reputation or other harm to our business. We offer complex services, which may not perform at the level our customers expect. We have occasionally given credits to customers as a result of past problems with our service. Despite our testing, our existing or future services may not perform as expected due to unforeseen problems, which could result in loss of or delay in revenue, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs or increased service costs. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, acquire, rather than develop internally, some of our services. We recently announced major upgrades to our Transaction Perspective and Application Perspective services. These services may not perform at the level we or our customers expect. These problems could also result in tort or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from any claims through warranty disclaimers and liability-limitation clauses in our customer agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Furthermore, although we maintain errors and omissions insurance, this insurance coverage may not adequately cover us for claims. If a court refused to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arose that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, we could be required to pay damages. A disruption to our network infrastructure could impair our ability to serve and retain existing customers or attract new customers All data collected from our measurement computers are generally stored in and distributed from our operations center, which we maintain at a single location. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are located at our corporate headquarters in San Mateo, California, which is an area susceptible to earthquakes and possible power outages. We have occasionally experienced outages of our service in the past and if experience power outages at our operations center, we might not be able to promptly receive data from our measurement computers and we might not be able to deliver our services to our customers on a timely basis. Although we maintain insurance against fires, earthquakes and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. If our operations center is damaged, this could disrupt our services, which could impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Any outage for any period of time or loss of customer data could cause us to lose customers. Our operations systems are also vulnerable to damage from break-ins, computer viruses, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Our insurance may not be adequate in any particular case. 17 Table of Contents Individuals who attempt to breach our network security, such as hackers, could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to breach our network security. In addition to intentional security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Our measurement computers and mobile devices are located at sites that we do not own or operate, and it could be difficult for us to maintain or repair them if they do not function properly. Our measurement computers and mobile devices that we use to provide many of our services are located at facilities that are not owned by our customers or us. Instead, these devices are installed at locations near various Internet access points worldwide. We do not own or operate the facilities, and we have little control over how these devices are maintained on a day-to-day basis. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with the companies that operate the facilities where our measurement computers are located. We may have to find new locations for these computers if we are unable to develop relationships with these companies or if these companies cease their operations as some have done due to bankruptcies or are acquired. In addition, if our measurement computers and mobile devices cease to function properly, we may not be able to repair or service these computers on a timely basis, as we may not have immediate access to our measurement computers and measurement devices. Our ability to collect data in a timely manner could be impaired if we are unable to maintain and repair our computers and devices should performance problems arise. Others might bring infringement claims which could harm our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could become subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our services overlap with competitive offerings. In addition, we are also subject to other legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management’s attention from operating our company. If we become liable to others for infringement of their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop noninfringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the services that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our business which includes our operating results and financial conditions will be susceptible to additional risks associated with international operations. We are continuing to seek to expand the sales of our services outside the United States. Although we completed our acquisition of SIGOS Systemsintegration GmbH in April 2006, to date, we have relatively little experience with operating outside the United States, and we may not succeed in these efforts. International sales were approximately 31% and 14% our total revenue for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect to continue to commit our resources to expand our international sales and marketing activities. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks we do not face in the United States. These include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • maintaining and servicing computer hardware in distant locations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; 18 Table of Contents • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The Internet may not be used as widely in other countries and the adoption of e-business may evolve slowly or may not evolve at all. As a result, we may not be successful in selling our services to customers in markets outside the United States. Industry consolidation may lead to stronger competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, HP acquired Mercury Interactive. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could also lead to fewer customers and partners, with the effect that loss of a major customer could harm our revenue. We failed to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, consequently, our ability to provide accurate financial statements could be impaired and any failure to maintain our internal controls and provide accurate financial statements could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. One or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting could occur or be identified in the future. For example, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, we had a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that existed as of September 30, 2005 with respect to our accounting for income taxes. In addition, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 we had a material weakness regarding the lack of a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge and training in the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and SEC matters. Because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, and any projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or meet our reporting obligation and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. We may face difficulties assimilating, and may incur costs associated with, any future acquisitions. We have completed several acquisitions, and as a part of our business strategy we may seek to acquire or invest in additional businesses, products or technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. Future acquisitions could create risks for us, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired personnel, operations and technologies; • difficulties in managing a larger organization with geographically dispersed operations; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition or incurring of additional unknown liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • entry in new businesses in which we have little direct experience; • difficulties in marketing additional services to the acquired companies’ customer base or to our customer base; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with resellers of our services, our customers and other business partners; 19 Table of Contents • the need to integrate or enhance the systems of an acquired business; • impairment charges related to potential write-down of acquired assets in acquisitions; • failure to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash or dilution in equity if stock is used to consummate the acquisition and/or operate the acquired business. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. The market for our common stock may be subject to similar fluctuations. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of events affecting other companies in the technology industry, currency fluctuations and general market conditions may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include: • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting and not by written consent; • our Board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; and • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer or our President, not by our stockholders. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. The rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the rights plan, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock by a person or group. In addition, it is the policy of our Board of Directors that a committee consisting solely of independent directors will review the rights plan at least once every three years to consider whether maintaining the rights plan continues to be in the best interests of Keynote and our stockholders. The Board may amend the terms of the rights without the approval of the holders of the rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 