ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete, fluctuating end-user demand, the uncertainty of current and future global economic conditions, and for many other reasons, including the following: •Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. •A significant portion of our quarterly retail sales typically occurs in the last weeks of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. •Our sales are impacted by end-user consumer demand and current and future global economic conditions, and can therefore fluctuate abruptly and significantly during periods of uncertain economic conditions or geographic distress, as well as from shifts in consumer buying patterns. •We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. •We may not fully or timely realize the anticipated benefits from the restructuring plans we implemented during fiscal year 2013. The restructuring plans were intended to simplify the organization, to reduce operating costs through global workforce reductions and a reduction in the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we attempt to expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories for mobile devices and digital music. •Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time and during periods of weakness in consumer spending, our ability to increase local currency selling prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, our results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. If we fail to innovate and develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner for our new and existing product categories, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The personal peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. The success of our product portfolio depends on several factors, including our ability to: •identify new features, functionality and opportunities; •anticipate technology, market trends and consumer preferences; 24 Table of Contents •develop innovative, high-quality, and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner; •distinguish our products from those of our competitors; and •offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our end-users' needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may be not competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically. As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers' ordering patterns, excessive levels of existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers' demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We believe sales of our PC (personal computer) peripherals in our mature markets will continue to decline, and that our future growth will depend on our new product categories and sales in emerging market geographies, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, or if our sales of PC peripherals in mature markets are less than we expect, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future. As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in mature markets is slowing and in some cases declining. We expect this trend to continue. For example, we experienced weak consumer demand for many of our PC peripherals in each quarter of fiscal year 2013, which adversely affected our financial performance. From time to time, our channel partners have also reduced their inventory levels for PC peripherals as the PC market has continued to decline. In our OEM channel, the decline of desktop PCs has adversely impacted our sales of OEM mice, which have 25 Table of Contents historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales. Our OEM sales accounted for 7%, 8% and 9% of total revenues in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. In addition, our sales in our mature markets in North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia might be less than we expect due to a decline in business or economic conditions in one or more of the countries or regions, a greater decline than we expect in demand for our products, our inability to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery and the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. As a result, we are focusing more of our personnel, financial resources, and management attention on product innovations and growth opportunities, on products for tablets and mobile devices, on products for the consumption of digital music, on products for PC gaming, in emerging markets, and on other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below. Tablets, Smartphones and Other Mobile Devices. The increasing popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces is rapidly changing the consumer PC market. In our retail channels, tablets and smartphones are sold by retailers without peripherals. We believe this creates opportunities to sell products to consumers to help make their devices more productive and comfortable. However, consumer acceptance and demand for peripherals for use with tablets and other mobile computing devices is still uncertain. The increasing popularity of tablets and smartphones has decreased consumer demand for our PC peripherals, which has adversely affected our sales of these products. If we do not successfully innovate and market products designed for tablets and smartphones, if our distributor or retailer customers do not choose to carry or market such peripherals, or if general consumer demand for peripherals for use with these devices does not increase, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Digital Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a future sales growth area. During fiscal year 2013, we increased our product development and marketing investment in digital music. However, several of our product launches were not as successful in fiscal year 2013 as we had expected due to a combination of our decision to limit our investment in LifeStyle brand marketing and weak competitive differentiation. This remains a new market for us, and we still face a steep learning curve. Historically our audio product development and marketing efforts have focused primarily on products for the PC platform and on sound quality. This past experience has not been transferable to the consumption of music through mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones, where we believe consumers put a greater emphasis on features such as convenience and brand. In addition, competition in the digital music consumption category is intense, and we expect it to increase. If we are not able to identify product development and marketing skill gaps, resolve them, and introduce differentiated product and marketing strategies to separate ourselves from competitors, our digital music efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. PC Gaming. We are shifting the focus of our gaming accessories from devices for console gaming, such as PlayStation, Xbox and Nintendo Wii, to keyboards, mice and other products for PC gaming, which we believe are the market segments with better growth opportunities. The developing and changing market and increasing competition increase the risk that we will not be successful with this more narrow focus, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Emerging Markets. We believe that the world's emerging markets, such as China, Eastern Europe and Latin America, will, for the next several years, continue to be growth markets for PCs and for our peripherals product lines. We have allocated significant resources to our sales, marketing and administrative personnel in China and, to a lesser extent, other emerging markets. We anticipate that emerging markets will include potentially high growth opportunities, offset by potentially entrenched local 26 Table of Contents competition, higher credit risks, and other factors that affect consumer trends in ways which may be substantially different from our current major markets. PCs may not continue to be a growth category in emerging markets, and consumers in emerging markets may prefer tablets, smartphones, other mobile devices or other technologies. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner which are attractive to consumers in these markets, if consumer demand for PCs and our peripherals in emerging markets declines or does not increase as much as we expect, or if we invest resources in products or geographic areas which do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. As we expand into new markets and product categories, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters. Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both. These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs, and reputational harm and, in severe cases, force us to recall products or prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The peripherals and video conferencing industries are intensely competitive. The peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets, and price sensitivity in the OEM market. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands, in both the retail and OEM markets. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions which may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. The video conferencing industry is characterized by continual performance enhancements and large, well-financed competitors. There is increased participation in the video conferencing market by companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc. and Polycom, Inc., and as a result, competition has increased in fiscal year 2013 and we expect competition in the industry to further intensify. In addition, there are an increasing number of PC-based multi-person video conferencing applications, such as Microsoft's Lync and Skype, which could compete at the lower end of the video conferencing market with our LifeSize products and services or could provide other competitors with lower barriers of entry into the video conferencing market. In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell, and entered new markets. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft Corporation, Apple Inc., Cisco, Sony Corporation, Polycom and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Microsoft and Apple are leading producers of operating systems, hardware and applications with which our mice, keyboards and other peripherals are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft and 27 Table of Contents Apple each has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft and Apple each may be able to improve the functionality of its own peripherals to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems, hardware and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft and Apple with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft and Apple may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and may be financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share. Pointing Devices and PC Keyboards & Desktops. Microsoft Corporation is our main competitor in our mice, keyboard and desktop product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless mice and desktops from less-established brands, including house brands, which we believe have impacted our market share in some sales geographies and which could potentially impact our market share. Tablet Accessories. We primarily manufacture tablet keyboards and other accessories for Apple products, such as iPad and iPhone. Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Zagg, Kensington, Belkin, Targus and other less-established brands. Although we are one of the front runners in the tablet keyboard market and continue to expand our product portfolio to other tablet products, we expect the competition will increase as large tablet manufactures, such as Microsoft Corporation, start to offer tablet keyboards and other accessories along with their tablet products. Audio PC. In the PC speaker business, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, Altec Lansing LLC and Creative Labs, Inc. In the PC headset business, our main competitors include Plantronics and Altec Lansing. Audio Wearables & Wireless. Our competitors for non-PC audio products, such as earphones and wireless speakers, include Skullcandy, Beats Electronics, Bose, Sennheiser and Jawbone, each of which have higher consumer recognition and retailer shelf space than we do. Video. Our primary competitor for PC webcams is Microsoft, with other various manufacturers taking smaller market share. The worldwide market for PC webcams has been declining, and as a result, fewer competitors have entered the market. Our primary competitors for digital video security systems include Swann Communications, Revo America, Samsung, Lorex and D-Link. PC Gaming. Competitors for our PC Gaming peripheral products include Razer USA Ltd., SteelSeries, A4TECH, Turtle Beach and Mad Catz Interactive. Remotes. Our primary competitors for remotes include Philips, Universal Remote Control, Inc., General Electric, RCA and Sony. We expect that the technological innovation in smartphone and tablet devices, as well as subscriber service specific remotes such as Direct TV, will likely result in increased competition. Video Conferencing. We primarily compete in the medium and small business, education, and state and local business sectors of the enterprise video conferencing market. This market is characterized by continual performance enhancements and large, well financed competitors. There is increased participation in the video conferencing market by companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Polycom, Inc. and Avaya, Inc., and as a result, competition has increased in fiscal year 2013 and we expect competition in the industry to further intensify. In addition, there are an increasing number of PC-based multi-person video conferencing applications, such as Microsoft's Lync and Skype, which could compete at the lower-end of the video conferencing market with our LifeSize products and services, or could provide other competitors with lower barriers of entry into the video conferencing market. 28 Table of Contents Our business depends in part on access to third-party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized. With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in order to produce products compatible with these platforms. Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod and iPhone, Android phones and tablets. Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors. Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better than our products in connection with those platforms. As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners. Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins, or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third-party platforms or technologies used to interact with our product portfolio can be delayed in production or can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies are delayed or change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not accurately forecast market demand for our products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our retail products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. Over the past few years, we have expanded the types of products we sell, and the geographic markets in which we sell them. The changes in our product portfolio and the expansion of our sales markets have increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products. We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the growth of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows. If we are unable to manage the growth of our employee base, particularly engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our operating cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, including declines in our stock prices in the past year, may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity incentives. Logitech's practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees, but the number of shares available for equity grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus. We have also experienced turnover in our workforce. These reductions and turnover have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee uncertainty and discontent. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to attract, motivate and retain employees, which could adversely affect our business. We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from our restructuring plans. In order to simplify the organization, to implement our strategic focus on growth opportunities, to reduce operating costs through global workforce reductions and a reduction in the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business and decreasing revenues, we restructured our business in fiscal year 2013. We may continue to restructure in fiscal year 2014 as we divest or discontinue non-strategic product categories. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these restructurings within our expected timeframes are subject to many estimates and assumptions, and the actual savings and timing for those savings may vary materially based on factors such as local labor regulations, negotiations with third parties, and operational requirements. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the anticipated benefits from these restructuring plans. To the extent that we are unable to improve our financial performance, further restructuring measures may be required in the future. As part of the restructuring plans, we conducted intensive reviews of our product portfolio in fiscal year 2013 and attempted to reduce the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category, which we believe has generated confusion for the consumer. While we are constantly replacing products and dependent on the success of our new products, this product line simplification effort was substantial, making us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing. 30 Table of Contents Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Our gross margins can vary due to consumer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, geographic sales mix, foreign currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new products in a timely manner at the product cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our products is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react or that are initiated by us to drive sales that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. As we expand into accessories for tablets and other mobile devices, and digital music, our products in those categories may have lower gross margins than in our traditional product categories. Consumer demand in these product categories, based on style, color and other factors, tends to be less predictable and tends to vary more across geographic markets. As a result, we may face higher up-front investments and inventory costs associated with attempting to anticipate consumer preferences. If we are unable to offset these potentially lower margins by enhancing the margins in our more traditional product categories, our profitability may be adversely affected. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares. As we focus on growth opportunities, we are divesting or discontinuing non-strategic product categories and pursuing strategic acquisitions and investments, which could have an adverse impact on our business if they are unsuccessful. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, the declining trends in our PC peripherals accelerated, and we made a strategic decision to divest our remote controls and digital video security categories and to discontinue other non-strategic products. If we are unable to effect such sales on favorable terms or if such realignment is more costly or distracting than we expect or has a negative effect on our organization, employees and retention, then our business and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, discontinuing products with service components may cause us to continue to incur expenses to maintain services within the product life cycle or to adversely affect our customer and consumer relationships and brand. As we attempt to grow our business in strategic product categories and emerging market geographies, we will consider growth through acquisition or investment. We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and management's attention away from other business issues and opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be harmed. Moreover, our acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategic objectives, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill or the recording of stock-based compensation. Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful and have led to impairment charges, including a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013. In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide 31 Table of Contents products and services that are complementary to ours. If these investments are unsuccessful, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information or conflicts among our channels of distribution could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. Our sales channel partners, the distributors and retailers who distribute and sell our products, also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors. If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our retailer channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to maintain our distribution channels, our business will suffer. As we expand into accessories for tablets and other mobile devices and digital music, we will have to build relationships with new channel partners and adapt to new distribution and marketing models. Entrenched and more experienced competitors will make these transitions difficult. If we are unable to build successful distribution channels or successfully market our products in these new product categories, we may not be able to take advantage of the growth opportunities, and our business and our ability to effect a turnaround in our declining revenues could be adversely affected. The impact of economic conditions, evolving consumer preferences, and purchasing patterns on our distribution partners, or competition between our sales channels, could result in sales channel disruption. For example, if sales at large retail stores are displaced as a result of bankruptcy, competition from internet sales channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected. Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms. We use retail sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our retailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. In addition, the customers supplying sell-through data vary by geographic region and from period to period, but typically represent a majority of our retail sales. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, or if we do not properly interpret this information, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area. We produce approximately half of our products at facilities we own in China. The majority of our other production is performed by third-party contract manufacturers in China. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers in Malaysia and India. Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, by strains on China's available labor pool, communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by natural disasters, by conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, by labor unrest, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar 32 Table of Contents to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China's laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs. Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs. In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines. These conditions could adversely affect our gross margins and financial results. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers, optical sensors and LifeSize hardware products, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business as a result of adverse global economic conditions or natural disasters, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, we may have insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand and we could lose sales, or we may experience a build-up in inventory. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last weeks of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us. We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China. We may also increase our investments to grow sales in other emerging 33 Table of Contents markets, such as Latin America and Eastern Europe. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental and tax laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; •varying laws, regulations and other legal protections, uncertain and varying enforcement of those laws and regulations, dependence on local authorities, and the importance of local networks and relationships; •exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries, which may lead to currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; •lack of infrastructure or services necessary or appropriate to support our products and services; •exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; •difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition; •changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement; •imposition of currency exchange controls; and •delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our sales in China have increased substantially in the last two fiscal years, and continued sales growth in China is an important part of our expectations for our business. As a result, if Chinese economic, political or business conditions deteriorate, or if one or more of the risks described above materializes in China, our overall business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, and entering new markets, such as the market for enterprise video conferencing and our introduction of products for tablets, other mobile devices and digital music. We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets. As we do so, we face an increased risk that claims alleging we infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit of the claims, may increase in number and significance. Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap. This risk is heightened by the increase in lawsuits brought by holders of patents that do not have an operating business or are attempting to license broad patent portfolios and by the increasing attempts by companies in the technology industries to enjoin their competitors from selling products that they claim infringe their intellectual property rights. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. A successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or the diversion of significant operational 34 Table of Contents resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be granted. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. As disclosed in Item 9A of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This follows the identification in previous periods of significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2013, based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remediation measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. For more information see "Item 9A. Controls and Procedures." 35 Table of Contents The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws and governmental regulation. In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe. Government actions are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information and its collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution in or from the governing jurisdiction. In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter. Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, could subject us to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business. We are upgrading our worldwide business application suite, and difficulties, distraction or disruptions may interrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our business and operating results. During fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we plan to devote significant resources to the upgrade of our worldwide business application suite to Oracle's version R12. Oracle has already begun to discontinue its support for our current business application suite, version 11i. As a result of that discontinued support or our upgrade or both, we may experience difficulties with our systems, management distraction, and significant business disruptions. Difficulties with our systems may interrupt our normal operations, including our enterprise resource planning, forecasting, demand planning, supply planning, intercompany processes, promotion management, internal financial controls, pricing, and our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers and consumers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run and track our business. In addition, we may need to expend significant attention, time and resources to correct problems or find alternative sources for performing these functions. Any such difficulty or disruption may adversely affect our business and operating results. Goodwill impairment charges could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges. The slowdown in the overall video conferencing industry in recent quarters, together with the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013, resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013, which substantially impacted operating results. As we attempt to effect a turnaround of our business, including returning our LifeSize video conferencing segment to profitability and divesting or discontinuing product categories or products that we previously acquired, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations. Our effective income tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws and tax agreements in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in management's assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. We are frequently subject to tax audits, examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. A material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our profitability. If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 Table of Contents 