ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risk factors below represent what we believe are the known material risk factors with respect to us and our business. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position or future financial results. We face a volatile retail environment and changing economic conditions that may further adversely affect consumer demand and spending. The home furnishings industry has experienced a difficult period over the last 5 years marked with depressed housing starts, high unemployment, changing consumer confidence and uncertain fiscal policies. While 2012 showed improvement, considerable economic uncertainty still exists. Historically, the home furnishings industry has been subject to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. Should the current economic recovery falter or the current recovery in housing starts stall, consumer confidence and demand for home furnishings could deteriorate which could adversely affect our business through its impact on the performance of our Company-owned stores, as well as our licensees and the ability of a number of them to meet their obligations to us. Unsuccessful implementation of the HGTV open market strategy and the development of a new furniture brand could be detrimental to future operating results. In September of 2011, we announced the formation of a strategic partnership with HGTV, a division of Scripps Networks, LLC., which combines our 110 year heritage in the furniture industry with the penetration of 99 million households in the United States that HGTV enjoys today. As part of this alliance, we have developed, in conjunction with HGTV, a new line of furniture that contains only the HGTV® Home Collection brand and will be primarily marketed through select top-100 furniture retailers. We have incurred significant expense to design and procure the furniture and develop the in-house infrastructure to manage the brand. Should we not generate the incremental sales necessary to appropriately leverage the additional costs, future operating results could be adversely impacted. Our use of foreign sources of production for a substantial portion of our products exposes us to certain additional risks associated with international operations. Our use of foreign sources for the supply of many of our products exposes us to risks associated with overseas sourcing. These risks are related to government regulation, delays in shipments, and extended lead time in ordering. Governments in the foreign countries where we source our products may change their laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation and exchange controls which could make it more difficult to service our customers resulting in an adverse effect on our earnings. Shipping delays and extended order lead times may adversely affect our ability to respond to sudden changes in demand, resulting in the purchase of excess inventory in the face of declining demand, or lost sales due to insufficient inventory in the face of increasing demand, either of which would also have an adverse effect on our earnings or liquidity. Our company-owned stores may not achieve the anticipated growth and profitability. Our Company-owned stores currently operate at a loss. Our goal is to operate these stores at a level of modest profitability to enhance operating margins generated by our wholesale operation. To be successful, we need to increase our sales per store while decreasing the support costs as a percentage of sales. As part of our strategy, we must hire, train and retain a qualified staff of design consultants to improve the customer experience. Competition with other furniture retailers for qualified design consultants also continues to increase. We also compete with other retailers for management personnel and appropriate retail locations. Failures and delays in implementing our retail strategies or failure to realize the benefits of these strategies could adversely impact our business and operating results. Our licensee-owned stores may not be able to meet their obligations to us. We have a significant amount of accounts receivable from our network of licensee-owned stores. We also own some of the real estate that is leased to our licensees and guarantee some of the leases of some of our licensees. If these stores do not generate the necessary level of sales and profits, they may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us resulting in additional bad debt expenses and real estate related losses. 6 Failure to successfully anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales of our furniture are dependent upon consumer acceptance of our designs, styles, quality and price. As with all retailers, our business is susceptible to changes in consumer tastes and trends. We attempt to monitor changes in consumer tastes and home design trends through attendance at international industry events and fashion shows, internal marketing research, and communication with our retailers and design consultants who provide valuable input on consumer tendencies. However, such tastes and trends can change rapidly and any delay or failure to anticipate or respond to changing consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends upon our brand, marketing and advertising efforts and pricing strategies, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we are not successful in these efforts and strategies, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to our ability to expand our base of customers and drive increased traffic at both Company-owned and licensee-owned stores. Our advertising and marketing campaign utilizes television, direct mail, catalogs, newspapers, magazines, radio and the internet in an effort to maintain and enhance our existing brand equity. We cannot provide assurance that our marketing, advertising and other efforts to promote and maintain awareness of our brand will not require us to incur substantial costs. If these efforts are unsuccessful or we incur substantial costs in connection with these efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Manufacturing realignments could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings. We regularly review and evaluate our domestic manufacturing operations and offshore (import) sourcing capabilities. As a result, we sometimes realign those operations and capabilities and institute cost savings programs. These programs can include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. We also may shift certain products from domestic manufacturing to offshore sourcing. These realignments and cost savings programs generally involve some initial cost and can result in decreases in our near-term earnings until we achieve the expected cost reductions. Failure to accomplish these actions as quickly as planned, or failure to fully achieve the expected cost reductions, could adversely impact our operating results and financial conditions. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or cause production delays which might result in a decline in sales, either of which could adversely impact our earnings. We use various types of wood, foam, fibers, fabrics, leathers, and other raw materials in manufacturing our furniture. Certain of our raw materials, including fabrics, are purchased both abroad and domestically. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or a delay in manufacturing our products, which in turn could result in a delay in delivering products to our customers. For example, lumber prices fluctuate over time based on factors such as weather and demand, which in turn impact availability. Production delays or upward trends in raw material prices could result in lower sales or margins, thereby adversely impacting our earnings. In addition, certain suppliers may require extensive advance notice of our requirements in order to produce products in the quantities we desire. This long lead time may require us to place orders far in advance of the time when certain products will be offered for sale, thereby exposing us to risks relating to shifts in consumer demand and trends, and any further downturn in the U.S. economy. Our pre-tax income for the year ended November 26, 2011 includes a significant non-recurring gain from the sale of our investment in IHFC and is therefore not typical of our recent results nor indicative of future results, and earnings and cash flows previously provided by our investment in IHFC will no longer continue in the future. Our results for the year ended November 26, 2011 were favorably impacted by a non-recurring gain of $85,542 resulting from the sale of our interest in IHFC, and our liquidity position was substantially improved by the receipt of $70,562 in proceeds from that sale. Absent the IHFC transaction, we had not reported pretax income for any of the five fiscal years through November 26, 2011. Furthermore, significant earnings and cash flows previously realized from our investment in IHFC have ceased following the sale, and we have distributed a significant portion of the cash proceeds to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Should we be unable to generate sufficient operating profit and cash flow from our continuing operations in the future, our liquidity will be adversely impacted as the funds provided by the IHFC sale transaction are exhausted. Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a full discussion of our operating results. 7 The implementation of a new point of sale system for our retail operations could disrupt our business and have a negative impact on our results from operations. We are in the process of implementing a new company-wide point of sale system for our retail operations. This system implementation may not result in improvements that outweigh its costs and may disrupt our operations. Our inability to mitigate future disruptions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The implementation subjects us to substantial costs and inherent risks associated with migrating from our legacy system. 8 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 