Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. If any of the events or developments described below were actually to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business The operations of CNLRP, USRP and the Income Funds may not be integrated successfully and intended benefits of the Mergers may not be realized, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The continuing integration relating to the Mergers poses risks for our ongoing operations, including that: • we may not achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies, such as the elimination of redundant administrative costs and property management costs; • the diversion of management attention to the integration of the operations of CNLRP, USRP and the Income Funds could have an adverse effect on our revenues, expenses and operating results; • the portfolios of the parties to the Mergers may not perform as well as anticipated due to various factors, including changes in general economic conditions and the performance of restaurant properties in markets in which the parties have a substantial presence; • we may not effectively integrate the operations and portfolio management systems of CNLRP, USRP and the Income Funds, particularly since we hired very few USRP employees during the transition phase; and • our internal accounting and finance staff and our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures may not meet the internal control and financial reporting needs of a much larger, more complicated combined company. If we fail to integrate successfully CNLRP, USRP and the Income Funds and/or fail to realize the intended benefits of the Mergers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our cash flow, limit our flexibility to raise additional capital and prevent us from making distributions on the outstanding shares of common stock. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2005, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $1.5 billion and stockholders’ equity of approximately $1.1 billion. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, execution of our growth strategy and other general corporate requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse changes in governmental regulations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the REIT industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors; • limit our ability to make distributions on our outstanding common and preferred stock; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity; and • make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the variable interest rates on some of our borrowings. The terms of our senior credit facilities, the indenture governing our 7½% Senior Notes due 2015 (the “Notes”) and our other existing financing arrangements allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional debt, subject to certain limitations. We may incur additional debt to execute our strategy. All such additional debt would increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our financing arrangements may not be sufficient to satisfy our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs or capital expenditures. Our ability to make payments on or refinance our debt will depend largely upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. The operation of our business and the REIT distribution requirements require substantial capital resources. We do not anticipate generating sufficient amounts of cash from our operating activities to fund all of these capital needs. Consequently, in order to service our REIT distribution requirements and our debt obligations and to fund our development and other activities, we must rely on external sources of capital. If we do not have sufficient cash flow or cash available to meet our debt service obligations, we may have to renegotiate the terms of our debt. In addition we would be required to repay or refinance substantially all of our debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to repay or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as: • sales of certain assets to meet our debt service obligations; • sales of equity; and • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. However, these options may not be adequate or feasible. Our financing arrangements and the indenture governing our Notes may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to do some of these things. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing when we need it or on terms satisfactory to us, our development activities could have to be delayed, curtailed or eliminated and our financial results could be adversely affected. We utilize an “UPREIT” structure and, as a result, we rely on the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries in order to meet our cash needs, service our indebtedness and make distributions on the outstanding shares of our common stock. We are organized in an “UPREIT” structure and our principal assets consist of the shares of capital stock or other equity of our subsidiaries. Without independent means of generating operating revenues, we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations and meet our cash needs. The payment of some of these dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to us are subject to contractual restrictions and future agreements may impose more restrictions. We cannot assure you that the operating results of our subsidiaries at any given time will be sufficient to make distributions to us in order to allow us to make payments on our indebtedness and make distributions on the outstanding shares of our common stock. The financing agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt repayment. Our existing and future financing agreements impose and will impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a maximum ratio of secured indebtedness to consolidated total tangible assets, a minimum consolidated tangible net worth test and minimum consolidated fixed charge and interest coverage ratios, and limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money and guarantee debt; • create liens; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • restrict dividends or other payments or distributions from material subsidiaries; • make investments or acquisitions; • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • sell assets or merge with other companies. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain the financial tests and ratios required by some of the instruments governing our financing arrangements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We may not be able to obtain future waivers or amendments, if necessary. We cannot assure you we will continue to make distributions at historical rates. Our ability to continue to make distributions on our common stock at historical rates or to increase our common stock dividend rate, and our ability to make distributions on our preferred stock and to service our debt, will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: • our financial conditions and results of future operations; • the performance of lease terms by tenants; • the terms of our loan covenants; and • our ability to acquire, finance and lease additional properties at attractive rates. If we do not maintain or increase the dividend rate on our common stock, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our outstanding preferred stock has a fixed dividend rate, and, with respect to the right of the payment of dividends, such stock ranks senior to our common stock. Any preferred stock that we may offer in the future may have similar provisions. In addition to being subject to payment in full of the dividends on our outstanding preferred stock, payment of dividends on our common stock also is subject to payment of interest on our existing debt or any debt we may incur in the future, and may be subject to payment in full of the dividends on any preferred stock we may offer in the future. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by a number of factors affecting the value of real estate. Our investments will be subject to the risks generally associated with the ownership of real property, including: • adverse changes in certain economic conditions; • changes in the investment climate for real estate; • increases in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; • adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies, including zoning and land use; • the relative illiquidity of real estate; and • compliance with environmental and other ordinances, regulations and laws. Any adverse changes in, or increased costs resulting from, these or other factors could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on a small number of tenants for a significant portion of our revenue, and rental payment defaults by these significant tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, our largest tenant represented 6.7 percent of our total annualized base rent and our ten largest tenants represented 34.9 percent of our total annualized base rent. As a result of the concentration of revenue generated from these few tenants, if any one of them were to cease paying rent or fulfilling their other monetary obligations, we could have significantly reduced rental revenues or higher expenses until the defaults were cured or the properties were leased to a new tenant or tenants. This could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in trends in the restaurant industry could adversely affect the sales, profitability and success of the chain restaurants that our tenants operate. The chain restaurants operated by our tenants are generally within the quick service or casual dining segments of the restaurant industry, each of which is highly competitive. The success of these restaurants depends largely on the restaurant operators’ ability to adapt to trends and other factors affecting the restaurant industry including increased competition among restaurants (including competition for concept name recognition, products, price, value, quality, healthiness, service and convenience), the consolidation of restaurant chains, industry overbuilding, changing consumer habits, the introduction of new concepts and menu items, the increased costs of food products, the availability of labor and general economic conditions. Losses incurred by a particular chain restaurant as a result of these or other factors could adversely affect the income that is derived from our restaurant properties, which may impact our tenants’ ability to make payments to us, which would have an adverse affect on our revenues. Tenant bankruptcy proceedings could negatively affect our income. As the owner of the bankrupt tenants’ underlying real estate, we face no risk of loss of ownership of the property itself if the bankrupt tenant rejects any of our leases. However, tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our income in the following ways: • reduction, interruption or termination of lease payments related to tenants’ leases; • reduction of revenue resulting from restructuring leases; • increase in costs associated with the maintenance and financing of vacant properties; • increase in costs associated with litigation and the protection of the properties; and • increase in costs associated with improving and re-leasing the properties. In connection with any tenant bankruptcy, we establish reserves relating to rent payments and other accounts receivable and take impairments to the book value of the underlying real estate, as appropriate, to reflect the difference between the net book value and the market value of the asset in cases where we do not believe the net book value will be recoverable through future operations and disposal of the asset. It may be necessary to take additional asset impairments and write-offs and/or establish additional reserves in the event of future tenant bankruptcies or if the current reserves and impairment charges prove to be inadequate. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to re-lease properties upon the termination, expiration or rejection of leases at comparable lease rates or at all. The leases of the properties that comprise our portfolio expire on dates ranging from 2006 to 2025. As of December 31, 2005, leases due to expire thru 2010 represented approximately 23 percent of our total properties and approximately 15 percent of our total annualized base rent. Also, as of December 31, 2005, approximately four percent of our total properties representing two percent of the portfolio’s net carrying value were vacant (excluding unoccupied properties for which rent is currently being paid). Upon the termination or expiration of a lease, we might not be able to re-lease the related property. If we are able to re-lease, the lease rate might not be comparable to the expiring lease or additional expenses may be incurred because of, among other things, a downturn in the commercial leasing markets where we operate and the general performance of the restaurant industry or a specific property. Our investment property sales program may be adversely affected by a significant reduction in or elimination of capital gains taxes or changes in interest rates. The market for our investment property sales program is driven, in part, by demand created by property buyers seeking continued capital gains and/or tax deferrals. Any new proposal to significantly reduce or eliminate the capital gains tax or tax deferred opportunities could negatively impact demand for properties offered by our investment property sales program. In addition, an increase in general levels of interest rates could result in buyers requiring a higher yield, which may not be matched with higher yields from tenants. This could cause us to experience lower average gains or even losses on the future sales of investment property sales program. Conversely, if interest rates are low, we may lose potential lease transactions to competitors such as large national and regional banks who can offer less expensive mortgage financing that restaurant operators may find more attractive than our leases. This may reduce the pool of properties available for us to purchase under our investment property sales program. We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. Also, with the exception of our investment property sales program that takes place within a taxable REIT subsidiary, unless certain safe harbors for sales of property by REITs apply, if such property is deemed held primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, sales of such property will be subject to a 100 percent “prohibited transaction” tax on any net income derived from such sales. Consequently, we may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations. We may not be able to acquire or sell properties on terms that are acceptable, or at all. We routinely acquire and make strategic dispositions of our properties. There may not be opportunities for further acquisitions of properties or opportunities to finance the acquisition of properties on terms that meet our investment criteria, which may adversely affect our growth. In addition, we may not be able to sell properties for a gain, and may sustain a loss, on such sales relative to current net book value of such properties. In addition, if our cash flows were to significantly decrease for any reason, we may have to sell one or more properties to support our operations. In such event, we may incur losses on the disposition of such properties. Our assets may decline in value and, as a result, may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically, but no less frequently than annually, evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and funds from operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. In addition, to the extent we are unable to sell properties for book value, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our net income. If we cannot obtain additional capital, our ability to grow will be limited. Our growth strategy includes continuing to acquire properties leased to operators of national and regional restaurant chains. We will be unable to fund growth with cash from operating activities because, in addition to other requirements, we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90 percent of our taxable income each year to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we will have to rely primarily upon the availability of debt or equity capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The debt could include unsecured or mortgage loans from lenders or the sale of debt securities. Equity capital could include common or preferred stock or units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnerships. We cannot assure you that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the required amounts or on acceptable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital will depend on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential, our then current and potential future earnings, restrictions in our existing debt agreements and the actions of credit rating agencies, including rating watches or downgrades. Depending on these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or could be unable to implement this strategy. Our securitizations could require replacement property contributions or accelerated principal paydowns and could be adversely affected by changes in rating agencies’ perceptions of the securitizations and the leases and loans underlying them. As of December 31, 2005, we had $742 million of rated securities structured in private placement franchise loan and net lease securitization transactions. In the event of tenant defaults relating to pledged properties in our net lease securitizations, we may elect to contribute additional properties or substitute properties into these securitized pools from properties we own and that are not otherwise pledged as collateral. In addition, if certain ratios are exceeded or not maintained within the net lease securitizations, then principal paydown on the outstanding bonds is accelerated. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, CNLRP was required to make additional debt reductions of $2.1 million, $2.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, as a result of exceeding certain ratios in the triple-net lease pools. There is no guaranty that we won’t be required to make additional debt reductions in the future. Upon the occurrence of a significant amount of delinquencies and/or defaults, one or more of the three rating agencies may choose to place a specific transaction on ratings watch or even downgrade one or more classes of securities to a lower rating. Should the loans or leases underlying the securities default, and the securities undergo a negative ratings action, we could experience material adverse consequences impacting our ability to continue earning income as servicer and our ability to engage in future desirable securitization transactions. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number of defaults by our tenants. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events such as hurricanes, severe winter weather, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and other events such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophic and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Our properties are generally leased to tenants subject to triple net leases, meaning that the tenant is responsible for repairs and maintenance on the properties, and is required to pay the real estate taxes and maintain full property insurance coverage on the properties. In many cases, we also require the tenant to carry business interruption insurance which would provide for payment of rent while the property is closed. We anticipate that the tenant’s insurance would cover the damages from any such catastrophes. In the event the tenant’s insurance does not cover damage incurred, and the tenant does not have resources to cover the difference, we carry contingent property coverage that would generally pay for repairs when the tenant’s insurance is either insufficient or non-existent. The development and redevelopment of properties presents risks not present in existing operating properties. In connection with the development of new properties and the redevelopment of existing properties, we will be subject to risks, including: • cost overruns; • delays because of a number of factors, including unforeseen circumstances, strikes, labor disputes or supply disruptions, zoning, permitting and approval issues, and bad weather and other acts of God; • design and construction defects; • contractor and subcontractor disputes and mechanics’ liens; and • lack of income-generating capacity until leasing. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations could reduce the value of our properties or our tenants’ profitability. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials, environmental protection and human health and safety. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we or our tenants may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances released on or in restaurant or service station properties we own, and also may be required to pay other costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances. This liability may be imposed without regard to whether we or our tenants knew about the release of these types of substances or were responsible for their release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate properly contamination at any properties or the migration of contaminants to or from our properties from or to adjacent third-party locations may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. The uses of any property prior to our acquisition and the building materials and products used at the property are among the property-specific factors that will affect how the environmental laws are applied to the properties. By the nature of their businesses, our tenants utilize cleaning agents and other potentially hazardous materials and, with regard to service station properties, maintain underground storage tanks. If we are subject to any material environmental liabilities, the liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to meet our obligations. We cannot predict what other environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist on the properties in the future. Compliance with existing and new laws and regulations may require us or the tenants to spend funds to remedy environmental problems. Our tenants, like many of our competitors, have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs associated with complying with these laws and regulations, which will adversely affect their potential profitability, which could in turn impact their ability to make lease payments to us. Generally, tenants must comply with environmental laws and meet remediation requirements. Our leases typically impose obligations on tenants to indemnify us from any compliance costs we may experience as a result of the environmental conditions on the property. If a lease does not require compliance by the tenant, however, or if a tenant fails to or cannot comply, we could be forced to pay these costs. In addition, in some cases we are responsible for adverse environmental conditions not caused by a tenant. If not addressed, environmental conditions could impair our ability to sell or re-lease the affected properties in the future or result in lower sales prices or rent payments. The revenues generated by our tenants could be negatively affected by various federal, state and local laws and regulations to which they are subject. We and our tenants will be subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, land use ordinances, consumer protection laws, and fire, life-safety and similar requirements which regulate the use of the properties. The leases typically require that each tenant comply with all laws and regulations. Failure to comply could result in fines by governmental authorities, awards of damages to private litigants, or restrictions on the ability to conduct business on such properties. This in turn could impair the ability of a tenant to pay rent, could require us to pay penalties or fines relating to any non-compliance, and could adversely affect our ability to re-sell or re-lease a property. The loss of certain members of our management team could adversely affect our business. We depend upon the services of Curtis B. McWilliams, as chief executive officer and president, and Steven D. Shackelford, as chief operating officer and chief financial officer. Loss of the services of either Mr. McWilliams or Mr. Shackelford could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Tax Risks Because we are a REIT, our distributions do not receive favorable tax treatment. On May 28, 2003, the President signed into law the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 (which we will refer to as the Act). Under the Act, the current maximum tax rate on the long-term capital gains of non-corporate taxpayers is reduced to 15 percent for tax years beginning on or before December 31, 2008. The Act also provides that the tax rate on “qualified dividend income” is the maximum capital gains rate rather than the tax rate that applies to ordinary income. Because we are a REIT, our distributions are not generally eligible for this new tax rate on dividends. As a result, our ordinary REIT distributions will be taxed to investors at the higher tax rates applicable to ordinary income. Certain earnings derived by our taxable REIT subsidiary are subjected to an income tax, and when distributed to us, can result in a portion of our distribution to our stockholders qualifying for the 15 percent rate. Without further legislation, in 2009 the maximum tax rate on long-term capital gains will revert to 20 percent, and all dividends will again be subject to tax at ordinary rates. We will be subject to increased taxation if we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will enable us to remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it distributes to its stockholders, as long as it meets various complex organizational, asset, and income tests, and distributes annually at least 90 percent of its taxable income to its stockholders. While we continuously monitor our activities to make sure we are in compliance with the REIT qualification rules, these rules are complex and subject to change, and complying with them may depend on events which are not under our control. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we generally would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates subject to the relief provisions discussed under “Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for REIT Qualification—Relief from Consequences of Failing to Meet Asset Tests” in the accompanying prospectus. In addition to these taxes, we may be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax. Furthermore, unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we are disqualified. Therefore, if we lose our REIT status, the funds available to satisfy our obligations for distribution to our stockholders or to service our debt obligations, including the notes, would be reduced substantially for each of the years involved. In addition, the failure to qualify as a REIT would also trigger a default under our existing revolving credit facility and other debt agreements. While we continuously monitor our activities to make sure we are in compliance with the REIT qualification rules, these rules are subject to change and actions we may have taken in the past may no longer qualify us under the current rules. To the extent that the REIT qualification rules change in the future and as a result we no longer qualify as a REIT, this would substantially increase our income tax liability and would have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make distributions. Excessive non-real estate asset values may jeopardize our REIT status. In order to qualify as a REIT, at least 75 percent of the value of our assets must consist of investments in real estate, investments in other REITs, cash and cash equivalents, and government securities. Therefore, the value of any property that is not considered a real estate asset for federal income tax purposes must represent in the aggregate less than 25 percent of our total assets. In addition, under federal income tax law, we generally will not be able to own securities in any one company (other than a REIT, a qualified REIT subsidiary or a taxable REIT subsidiary) which represent in excess of 10 percent of the voting securities or 10 percent of the value of all securities of any one company, or which have, in the aggregate, a value in excess of 5 percent of our total assets, and we may not own securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries which have, in the aggregate, a value in excess of 20 percent of our total assets. The 25 percent, 20 percent, 10 percent and 5 percent tests are determined at the end of each calendar quarter. If we fail to meet any such test at the end of any calendar quarter, we may cease to qualify as a REIT subject to the relief provisions discussed under “Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for REIT Qualification—Relief from Consequences of Failing to Meet Asset Tests” in the accompanying prospectus. Certain of our leases may be recharacterized as financings, which would eliminate our depreciation deductions on our properties. If any of our leases do not constitute a lease for federal income tax purposes, it will be treated as a financing arrangement. The recharacterization of a lease in this fashion may have adverse tax consequences for us. In particular, we would not be entitled to claim depreciation deductions with respect to any improvements on the property (although we should be entitled to treat part of the payments we would receive under the arrangement as the repayment of principal). In that event, in certain taxable years, our taxable income and the corresponding obligation to distribute 90 percent of that income would be increased. Any increase in our distribution requirements may limit our ability to operate our business, to invest in additional property or to service our debt obligations. We may have to borrow funds or sell assets to meet our distribution requirements. Subject to some adjustments that are unique to REITs, a REIT generally must annually distribute at least 90 percent of its otherwise taxable income. For the purpose of determining taxable income, we may be required to accrue interest, rent and other items treated as earned for tax purposes that we have not yet received. In addition, we may be required not to deduct certain expenses, or not to accrue as expenses for tax purposes some items which actually have been paid. As a result, we could have taxable income in excess of cash available for distribution. If this occurs, we may have to borrow funds or liquidate some of our assets in order to meet the distribution requirements applicable to a REIT. We may be subject to other tax liabilities. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property, such as franchise, sales and property taxes, that could reduce operating cash flow. Certain of our subsidiaries have elected to be taxable REIT subsidiaries, and therefore, are subject to taxation at regular corporation rates. These tax obligations may adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 