Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. If any of the events or developments described below were actually to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business Our debt could adversely affect our cash flow, our business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $1.6 billion and stockholders’ equity of approximately $1.1 billion. Effective with the GE Capital Merger, we received an equity inflow of approximately $760 million which we used to repay all amounts outstanding under the revolver, term, and the warehouse facilities. Our remaining substantial level of debt could have important consequences for us. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse changes in governmental regulations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity or working capital. The terms of our indebtedness, including the indenture governing our 7½% Senior Notes due in 2015 (the “Notes”) allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional indebtedness, subject to certain limitations. Additional indebtedness would increase the risks associated with our leverage. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to satisfy our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments on or refinance our debt will depend largely upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient cash flow or cash available to meet our debt service obligations, we would have to consider the sales of certain assets to meet our debt service obligations. However, this option may not be adequate or feasible. Our financing arrangements and the indenture governing our Notes may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to do this. The financing agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt repayment. Our existing and future financing agreements impose and will impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, a maximum ratio of secured indebtedness to adjusted total tangible assets, a minimum consolidated tangible net worth test and minimum consolidated fixed charge and interest coverage ratios, and limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money and guarantee debt; • create liens; • make investments or acquisitions; • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • sell assets. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain the financial tests and ratios required by some of the instruments governing our financing arrangements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We may not be able to obtain future waivers or enter into future amendments or supplements, if necessary. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by a number of factors affecting the value of real estate. Our investments will be subject to the risks generally associated with the ownership of real property, including: • adverse changes in certain economic conditions; • changes in the investment climate for real estate; • increases in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; • adverse changes in governmental laws, regulations, ordinances, and fiscal policies, including zoning and land use; • the relative illiquidity of real estate; and • compliance with environmental and other ordinances, regulations and laws. Any adverse changes in, or increased costs resulting from, these or other factors could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on a small number of tenants for a significant portion of our revenue, and rental payment defaults by these significant tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, our largest tenant represented 7.0 percent of our total annualized base rent and our ten largest tenants represented 36.7 percent of our total annualized base rent. As a result of the concentration of revenue generated from these few tenants, if any one of them were to cease paying rent or fulfilling their other monetary obligations, we could have significantly reduced rental revenues or higher expenses until the defaults were cured or the properties were leased to a new tenant or tenants. This could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in trends in the restaurant industry could adversely affect the sales, profitability and success of the chain restaurants that our tenants operate. The chain restaurants operated by our tenants are generally within the quick service or casual dining segments of the restaurant industry, each of which is highly competitive. The success of these restaurants depends largely on the restaurant operators’ ability to adapt to trends and other factors affecting the restaurant industry including increased competition among restaurants (including competition for concept name recognition, products, price, value, quality, healthiness, service and convenience), the consolidation of restaurant chains, industry overbuilding, changing consumer habits, the introduction of new concepts and menu items, the increased costs of food products, the availability of labor and general economic conditions. We believe that restaurant services are consumed with disposable income subject to, for example, gasoline and other fuel prices. Losses incurred by a particular chain restaurant as a result of these or other factors could adversely affect the income that is derived from our restaurant properties, which may impact our tenants’ ability to make payments to us, which would have an adverse affect on our revenues. Tenant bankruptcy proceedings could negatively affect our income. As the owner of the bankrupt tenants’ underlying real estate, we face no risk of loss of ownership of the property itself if the bankrupt tenant rejects any of our leases. However, tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our income in the following ways: • reduction, interruption or termination of lease payments related to tenants’ leases; • reduction of revenue resulting from restructuring leases; • increase in costs associated with the maintenance and financing of vacant properties; • increase in costs associated with litigation and the protection of the properties; and • increase in costs associated with improving and re-leasing the properties. In connection with any tenant bankruptcy, we establish reserves relating to rent payments and other accounts receivable and take impairments to the book value of the underlying real estate, as appropriate, to reflect the difference between the net book value and the market value of the asset in cases where we do not believe the net book value will be recoverable through future operations and disposal of the asset. It may be necessary to take additional asset impairments and write-offs and/or establish additional reserves in the event of future tenant bankruptcies or if the current reserves and impairment charges prove to be inadequate. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to re-lease properties upon the termination, expiration or rejection of leases at comparable lease rates or at all. The leases of the properties that comprise our portfolio expire on dates ranging from 2007 to 2041. As of December 31, 2006, leases due to expire through 2011 represented approximately 22 percent of our total properties and approximately 17 percent of our total annualized base rent. Also, as of December 31, 2006, approximately four percent of our total properties representing three percent of the portfolio’s net carrying value were vacant (excluding unoccupied properties for which rent is currently being paid). Upon the termination or expiration of a lease, we might not be able to re-lease the related property. If we are able to re-lease, the lease rate or other lease terms might not be comparable to the expiring lease or additional expenses may be incurred because of, among other things, a downturn in the commercial leasing markets where we operate and the general performance of the restaurant industry or a specific property. Our investment property sales program may be adversely affected by a significant reduction in or elimination of capital gains taxes or changes in interest rates. The market for our investment property sales program is driven, in part, by demand created by property buyers seeking continued capital gains and/or tax deferrals. Any new proposal to significantly reduce or eliminate the capital gains tax or tax deferral opportunities could negatively impact demand for our properties. An increase in general levels of interest rates could result in buyers requiring a higher yield, which may not be matched with higher yields from tenants. This could cause us to experience lower average gains or even losses on the future sales of investment property sales program. We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. Consequently, we may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations. We may not be able to sell properties on terms that are acceptable, or at all. We routinely make strategic dispositions of our properties. We may not be able to sell properties for a gain, and may sustain a loss, on such sales relative to current net book value. In addition, if our cash flows were to significantly decrease for any reason, we may have to sell one or more properties to support our operations. In such event, we may incur losses on the disposition of such properties. Our assets may decline in value and, as a result, may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically, but no less frequently than annually, evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. To the extent we are unable to sell properties for book value, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our net income. We will not acquire substantial new properties, so we will not have the ability to grow or diversify our existing portfolio. Effective with the GE Capital Merger on February 26, 2007, we will no longer originate substantial new property acquisitions. As we continue to sell properties, we expect to experience a decline in our asset base. If this decline occurs, our property portfolio may become less diversified in terms of property type and geographic region, which could leave us more vulnerable to adverse changes affecting restaurant chains, tenants, concepts or economic conditions in geographic regions. Our securitizations could require replacement property contributions or accelerated principal paydowns and could be adversely affected by changes in rating agencies’ perceptions of the securitizations and the leases and loans underlying them. As of December 31, 2006, we had $456 million of rated securities structured in private placement franchise loan and net lease securitization transactions. In the event of tenant defaults relating to pledged properties in our net lease securitizations, we may elect to contribute additional properties or substitute properties into these securitized pools from properties we own and that are not otherwise pledged as collateral. In addition, if certain ratios are exceeded or not maintained within the net lease securitizations, then principal paydown on the outstanding bonds is accelerated. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 we were required to make additional debt reductions of $2.5 million, $1.8 million, and $0.8 million, respectively, as a result of exceeding certain ratios in the triple-net lease pools. There is no guaranty that we will not be required to make additional debt reductions in the future. Upon the occurrence of a significant amount of delinquencies and/or defaults, one or more of the rating agencies may choose to place a specific transaction on ratings watch or even downgrade one or more classes of securities to a lower rating. Should the loans or leases underlying the securities default, and the securities undergo a negative ratings action, we could experience material adverse consequences impacting our ability to continue earning income as servicer and our ability to engage in future desirable securitization transactions. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number of defaults by our tenants. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events such as hurricanes, severe winter weather, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and other events such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophic and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Our properties are generally leased to tenants subject to triple net leases, meaning that the tenant is responsible for repairs and maintenance on the properties, and is required to pay the real estate taxes and maintain full property insurance coverage on the properties. In many cases, we also require the tenant to carry business interruption insurance which would provide for payment of rent while the property is closed. We anticipate that the tenant’s insurance would cover the damages from any such catastrophes. In the event the tenant’s insurance does not cover damage incurred, and the tenant does not have resources to cover the difference, we carry contingent property coverage that would pay for certain items but not cover all amounts of such damages. The development and redevelopment of properties presents risks not present in existing operating properties. In connection with the redevelopment of existing properties, we will be subject to risks, including: • cost overruns; • delays because of a number of factors, including unforeseen circumstances, strikes, labor disputes or supply disruptions, zoning, permitting and approval issues, and bad weather and other acts of God; • design and construction defects; • contractor and subcontractor disputes and mechanics’ liens; and • lack of income-generating capacity until leasing payments can begin. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations could reduce the value of our properties or our tenants’ profitability. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials, environmental protection and human health and safety. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we or our tenants may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances released on or in restaurant or service station properties we own, and also may be required to pay other costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances. This liability may be imposed without regard to whether we or our tenants knew about the release of these types of substances or were responsible for their release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate properly, the migration of contaminants to or from our properties, or from or to adjacent third-party locations, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. The uses of any property prior to our acquisition and the building materials and products used at the property are among the property-specific factors that will affect how the environmental laws are applied to the properties. By the nature of their businesses, our tenants utilize cleaning agents and other potentially hazardous materials and, with regard to service station properties, maintain underground storage tanks. If we are subject to any material environmental liabilities, the liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to meet our obligations. We cannot predict what other environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist on the properties in the future. Compliance with existing and new laws and regulations may require us or the tenants to spend funds to remedy environmental problems. Our tenants, like many of our competitors, have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs associated with complying with these laws and regulations, which will adversely affect their potential profitability, which could in turn impact their ability to make lease payments. Generally, tenants must comply with environmental laws and meet remediation requirements. Our leases typically impose obligations on tenants to indemnify us from any compliance costs we may experience as a result of the environmental conditions on the property. If a lease does not require compliance by the tenant, however, or if a tenant fails to or cannot comply, we could be forced to pay these costs. In addition, in some cases we are responsible for adverse environmental conditions not caused by a tenant. If not addressed, environmental conditions could impair our ability to sell or re-lease the affected properties in the future or result in lower sales prices or rent payments. The revenues generated by our tenants could be negatively affected by various federal, state and local laws and regulations to which they are subject. We and our tenants are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, land use ordinances, consumer protection laws, and fire, life-safety and similar requirements which regulate the use of the properties. The leases typically require that each tenant comply with all laws and regulations. Failure to comply could result in fines by governmental authorities, awards of damages to private litigants, or restrictions on the ability to conduct business on such properties. This in turn could impair the ability of a tenant to pay rent, could require us to pay penalties or fines relating to any non-compliance, and could adversely affect our ability to sell or re-lease a property. Tax Risks Certain of our leases may be recharacterized as financings, which would eliminate our depreciation deductions on our properties and potentially increase our tax liability. If any of our leases do not constitute a lease for federal income tax purposes, it will be treated as a financing arrangement. The recharacterization of a lease in this fashion may have adverse tax consequences for us. In particular, we would not be entitled to claim depreciation deductions with respect to any improvements on the property (although we should be entitled to treat part of the payments we would receive under the arrangement as the repayment of principal). We are subject to federal, state and local tax. We are subject to taxation at regular corporate rates. In addition, we are subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property, such as franchise, sales and property taxes. These tax obligations may adversely affect our cash flow available for debt service and our overall results of operations. We may become subject to significant tax liability if a determination were made that our predecessor did not qualify as a REIT. Trustreet, our predecessor, elected to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, Trustreet was not subject to U.S. federal income tax on income or gains that it distributed on a current basis to its stockholders. If Trustreet had failed to qualify as a REIT, it would have been subject to U.S. federal and state tax on its income and gains at regular corporate rates. If a determination were made that Trustreet had failed to qualify as a REIT, the IRS could assert that we are liable for some or all of Trustreet’s resulting tax liabilities, which could be substantial. These tax obligations may adversely affect our cash flow available for debt service and our overall results of operations. We may be subject to other tax liabilities. We may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income and property, such as franchise, sales and property taxes, that could reduce operating cash flow. We are subject to taxation at regular corporation rates. These tax obligations may adversely affect our results of operations. In particular, as a result of the GE Capital Merger, we no longer operate as a REIT and will begin paying a significant amount of taxes that previously were not applicable to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 