D. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in them may cause volatility in the price of our ADSs and registered shares. Given the nature of the markets in which we compete, our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict for many reasons, including the following: • Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. In addition, a significant portion of our quarterly retail sales can occur in the last month of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting revenues and profitability for the quarter. • We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to adjust our costs in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Our revenues and profitability depend in part on the mix of our retail and original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, sales as well as our product mix. Our prices and gross margins are generally lower for sales to OEM customers compared to sales to our retail customers. Our prices and gross margins can vary significantly by product line as well as within product lines. • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars whereas a significant portion of our sales to customers are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro. Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currencies impact our global pricing strategy resulting in our lowering or raising selling prices in a currency in order to avoid disparity with U.S. dollar prices and to respond to currency-driven competitive pricing actions. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause volatility in the price of our ADSs and registered shares. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, our operating results did not meet our targets, which had a significant adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs and registered shares. If we do not introduce successful products in a timely manner, our business and operating results could suffer. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, short product life cycles and frequent new product introductions. As a result, we must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. If technologies or standards that we adopt fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, demand for such products could decline and our business could be adversely affected. The success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to: • anticipate technology and market trends; • develop innovative new products and enhancements in a timely manner; • distinguish our products from those of our competitors; • manufacture and deliver high-quality products in sufficient volumes; and • price our products competitively. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Production levels that do not match demand for our products could result in lost sales or lower gross margins. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, short-term customer commitments and rapid changes in demand. We determine production levels based on our forecasts of product demand. Actual demand for our products depends on many factors, which makes it difficult to forecast. We have experienced differences between actual and forecasted demand in the past and expect differences to arise in the future. The following problems could occur as a result of these differences: • If demand for our products is below our forecasts, we could produce excess inventory or have excess manufacturing capacity. Excess inventory could negatively impact our cash flows and could result in inventory impairments. Excess manufacturing capacity could result in higher production costs per unit and lower margins. • If demand for our products exceeds our forecasts, we would have to rapidly ramp up production. We depend on suppliers and manufacturers to provide components and subassemblies. As a result, we may not be able to rapidly increase production levels to meet unexpected demand, and we could lose sales 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements while we try to increase production. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2005 we were not able to fully meet greater than expected demand for certain retail products because we were unable to obtain related components in a timely manner. • Rapidly increasing our production levels to meet unanticipated customer demand could result in higher costs for components and subassemblies, increased expenditures for freight to expedite delivery of materials or finished goods, and higher overtime costs and other expenses. These higher expenditures could result in lower gross margins. Our OEM business could be adversely affected by consumer trends toward notebook computers. Our OEM mice are sold with name-brand desktop PCs. Consequently our OEM business is highly dependent on market trends for desktop PCs. In recent periods, a shift by consumers towards notebook products has resulted in slower growth for desktop PCs. Our OEM revenues accounted for 13% of total revenues during fiscal year 2005. If the desktop PC market continues to experience slower growth or decline, and if we do not successfully grow our non-mouse OEM business, our OEM revenues could be adversely affected. Changes in environmental rules and regulations could increase our costs and impact our future operating results. The European Union (“EU”) has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE. This directive requires that producers of electrical goods be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. The original implementation date proposed by the WEEE Directive for enactment of national legislation by EU member states was August 2004. Producers are to be financially responsible under the WEEE Directive beginning in August 2005. Producer obligations also include specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of equipment that had been placed in the EU marketplace prior to August 2005, and has reached its end of life. To date, specific legal requirements have not been finalized by many member states, with certain member states delaying implementation beyond August 2005. Until sufficient national legislations are available for interpretation, it is not possible to accurately determine the financial impact of complying with the WEEE Directive. Similar environmental legislation may be enacted in other geographies, including federal and state legislation in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the EU and the United States, even if we are not subject to regulations imposed by local governments. There is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. Our failure to manage growth could harm us. We have rapidly and significantly expanded the number and types of products we sell and we will endeavor to further expand our product portfolio. This expansion places a significant strain on our management, operations and engineering resources. The areas that are strained most by our growth include the following: • New Product Launch. Coordinating our product development, manufacturing, and distribution is increasingly complex. As this complexity increases, it places a strain on our ability to accurately coordinate the launch of our products with adequate supply to meet anticipated customer demand and effective marketing to stimulate demand and market acceptance. If we are unable to continue to scale and improve our product launch coordination, we could incur incremental costs to expedite delivery, frustrate our customers and lose retail shelf space and product sales. • Forecasting, Planning and Supply Chain Logistics. Forecasting customer demand and planning for production, and transportation and logistics management is also increasingly complex. If we are unable to continue to scale and improve our forecasting, planning and logistics management, we could frustrate our customers, lose product sales or accumulate excess inventory. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements To manage the growth of our operations, we will need to continue to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to effectively manage the increased complexity. If we are unable to scale and improve them, the consequences could include: delays in shipment of product, degradation in levels of customer support, lost sales and increased inventory. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to expand. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our industry is intensely competitive. It is characterized by a trend of declining average selling prices in the OEM market, and continual performance enhancements and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail market. We continue to encounter aggressive price competition from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, and may choose to adjust prices to improve our competitive position. We expect continued pressure in our retail business, particularly in the terms and conditions that our competitors offer customers, which may be more favorable than our terms. Future market conditions, product transitions, and initiatives by our competitors may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs and could impact our revenues and operating margins. Corded and Cordless. Microsoft is our main competitor in retail cordless (mice and desktops) and corded (mice and keyboards) categories. Microsoft’s offerings include a complete line of mice, trackballs, keyboards and desktops. Microsoft has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. We continue to encounter aggressive pricing practices, promotions and channel marketing on a worldwide basis from Microsoft, which will continue to impact our revenues and margins. We are also experiencing competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless mice and desktops from less-established brands, in the lower-price segments, which could potentially impact our market share. Microsoft is a leading producer of operating systems and applications with which our mice and keyboards are designed to operate. As a result, Microsoft may be able to improve the functionality of its mice and keyboards to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft with significant lead-time advantages for product development. In addition, Microsoft may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer. Video. Our main competitor in the U.S. for PC web cameras is Creative Labs, offering a complete line of PC web cameras. In Europe, our main competitors are Creative Labs and Philips. We continue to encounter aggressive pricing practices, promotions and channel marketing on a worldwide basis from Creative Labs, which will continue to impact our revenues and margins. We are also experiencing ongoing competition from less-established providers of PC web cameras that are seeking shelf space and increased market share through price competition. Gaming. Competitors for our interactive entertainment products include Guillemot, Mad Catz, Pelican Accessories and Saitek Industries. Our cordless controllers for PlayStation®2 also compete against corded controllers offered by Sony. Sony has substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, our cordless controllers for Microsoft Xbox™ are competing against Microsoft’s sales of their corded controllers. Logitech’s advantage relative to offerings by Sony or Microsoft is that our controllers are cordless, whereas neither of the companies currently have an equivalent cordless offering on the market. Audio. Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. In the PC speaker business, competitors include Altec Lansing and Creative Labs. In the PC and console headset, telephony and microphone business, competitors include Altec Lansing and Plantronics. In addition, with our entry into the mobile phone headset 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements business, we are competing against mobile phone and accessory companies such as Jabra Corporation (a company of the GN Netcom Group), Motorola, Nokia, Plantronics and Sony-Ericsson, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we have and each of whom has an established market position in this business. These markets are intensely competitive and market leadership changes as a result of new products, designs and pricing. Advanced Remote Controls. With our acquisition of Intrigue Technologies in May 2004, we have expanded our product portfolio to include a new line of personal peripheral devices for home entertainment systems. The market for advanced remote controls is highly competitive with many companies offering universal remote controls at price points similar to or lower than those of our Harmony remote offering. These companies include among others, Philips, Universal Remote, Universal Electronics, RCA and Sony. If we do not continue to distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features, design, and services, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our business could be harmed. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our revenues could decline. Our success depends on the continued viability and financial stability of our distributors, retailers and OEM customers. We sell our products through a network of domestic and international distributors, retailers and OEM customers, and our success depends on the continued viability and financial stability of these customers. The distribution, retail and OEM industries have historically been characterized by rapid change, including periods of widespread financial difficulties and consolidations, and the emergence of alternative distribution channels. The loss of one or more of our distributors, major retailers or OEM customers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because of our sales to large high-volume customers, we maintain individually significant receivable balances with these customers. As of March 31, 2005, three customers represented 14%, 12% and 11% of total accounts receivable. During fiscal year 2005, one customer accounted for 14% of net sales and another customer accounted for 10% of net sales. We generally do not require any collateral from our customers. However, we seek to control our credit risk through ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and by purchasing credit insurance on certain U.S. and European retail accounts receivable balances. If any of our major customers were to default in the payment of their receivables owed to us, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our principal manufacturing operations are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that country. Our principal manufacturing operations are located in Suzhou, China. We are currently expanding our Suzhou manufacturing operations with the construction of a new factory that is scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2005. These operations could be severely impacted by evolving interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, by strains on Chinese energy, transportation, communications, trade and other infrastructures, by conflicts, embargoes, increased tensions or escalation of hostilities between China and Taiwan, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our Suzhou facilities are managed by several of our key Taiwanese expatriate employees. The loss of these employees, either voluntarily or as a consequence of deterioration in relations between China and Taiwan, could diminish the productivity and effectiveness of our Suzhou manufacturing operations. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the renminbi yuan, or RMB, the local currency of China. Since last year, China has been under international pressure to revalue its currency, which certain of its trading partners assert is undervalued. Speculation that the Chinese government will concede to international 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements pressure and revalue its currency in the near future has persisted this year. Should the Chinese government allow a significant RMB appreciation, our component and other raw material costs could increase and could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell may contain defects in design and manufacture. Defects may also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and software Logitech sells. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expense to remedy. We depend on original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers who may not have adequate capacity to fulfill our needs or may not meet our quality and delivery objectives. Original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers produce key portions of our product lines for us. Our reliance on them involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and logistics management, the potential lack of adequate capacity and discontinuance of the contractors’ assembly processes. Financial instability of our manufacturers or contractors could result in our having to find new suppliers, which could increase our costs and delay our product deliveries. These manufacturers and contractors may also choose to discontinue building our products for a variety of reasons. Consequently, we may experience delays in the timeliness, quality and adequacy in product deliveries, any of which could harm our business and operating results. We purchase key components and products from single or limited sources, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. Lead times for materials and components ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages. We continue to experience extended lead times on semiconductors and base metals used in our products. While we are trying to manage our component levels through the purchase of buffer stock, there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain the inventory levels sufficient to meet our product demand. Currently, the shortages have not significantly impacted our product cost. In addition, we may be at risk for these components if our customers reject or cancel orders unexpectedly or with inadequate notice. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. At various times, we have experienced fluctuations in component prices due to supply, demand and price trends of certain markets. In particular, prices for petroleum-based materials have increased in recent periods. We have generally been able to minimize the impact of such price increases by managing inventory levels, increasing production efficiencies and negotiating competitive prices with our suppliers. While we will continue to implement such actions, price fluctuations could have an impact on the cost of our products during a particular period and could impact our gross margins. We purchase certain products and key components from single or limited sources. In particular, a significant portion of our cordless keyboards is single-sourced. If the supply of these products or key components were to be delayed or constrained, we may be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, or our new and existing product shipments could be delayed, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We increasingly rely on third parties to manufacture our products, manage centralized distribution centers and transport our products. From time to time, we change third-party logistics providers such as warehouse managers and freight forwarders. We are expanding our Western Europe distribution capabilities to include a second third-party distribution center in the Netherlands, and we continue to ramp up our Eastern Europe distribution center located in Hungary. If we do not successfully establish our expanded Western Europe distribution center, and if we do not otherwise successfully coordinate the timely manufacture and distribution of our products, we may have insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand, and we could lose sales, or we may experience a build-up in inventory. We rely on commercial air freight carriers, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies and other transportation companies for the movement of our products. Consequently, our ability to ship products to our distribution centers could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity. The logistics and supply chain infrastructure in China, where our products are manufactured, has not kept pace with the rapid expansion of China’s economy, resulting in capacity constraints in the transportation of goods. If we are unable to secure cost-effective freight resources in a timely manner, we could incur incremental costs to expedite delivery, which could adversely affect our gross margins and we could experience delays in bringing our products to market and lose product sales or accumulate excess inventory. We are currently expanding our Suzhou manufacturing operations with the construction of a new factory to provide for additional production capacity to meet future demand. We expect construction of the new site to be completed and operations to commence in the summer of 2005. If construction and transition of manufacturing to the new factory were to be significantly delayed, we may not have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, and as a result we could lose sales. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last month of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely impact our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill all our orders from our customers in the quarter. We conduct operations in a number of countries and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. We conduct operations in a number of countries. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; • exposure to political and financial instability, leading to currency exchange losses, collection difficulties or other losses; • exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • difficulties or increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, particularly in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia; • changes in value-added tax or VAT reimbursement; • imposition of currency exchange controls; and • delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be issued. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are also increasing our reliance on technologies that we license or acquire from others. We may find it necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses or other rights relating to one or more of our products or to current or future technologies. These licenses or other rights may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, the use of intellectual property licensed from third parties may limit our ability to protect the proprietary rights in our products. Pending and future lawsuits could adversely impact us. We are currently involved in a pending lawsuit relating to patent infringement and in a number of lawsuits and claims relating to commercial matters that arise in the normal course of business. We believe these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend against them vigorously. However, there can be no assurance that the defense of any of these actions will be successful. Pending and future litigation and disputes arising over patent infringement claims, commercial matters, or other litigation involving us, whether as plaintiff or defendant, regardless of outcome, may result in significant diversion of our technical and management resources, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our effective tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in management’s assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuation in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. If our effective tax rate increases in future periods, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that public companies in the United States evaluate and report on their systems of internal controls over financial reporting. Further, Section 404 requires the 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements company’s independent public accountants to attest to and report on management’s evaluation of those controls. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 until our fiscal year ending March 31, 2007. We are currently in the process of documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting to comply with the requirements of Section 404. As a result, we are committing substantial time and resources to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. During this process, we may identify deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. Our evaluation and testing is ongoing, and there can be no assurance that we will not identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would require remediation. 