ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this document. These risks are not the only ones we face. Interest rates, consumer confidence, housing starts, and other general economic factors that affect many other businesses are particularly significant to us because our principal products are consumer goods. Additional factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also could affect our business. Capital and credit market disruptions may adversely impact the availability of credit to us, our customers, licensees and consumers. If the financial institutions that have extended credit to us are adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets, they may be unable to fund borrowings to us. Additionally, disruptions in these markets may also adversely affect the ability of our customers, our licensees and consumers to obtain credit, which may restrict their ability to purchase products from us. Any one or combination of these possibilities could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, which could severely limit or preclude our ability to borrow funds for working capital and general corporate purposes, store acquisitions and capital expenditures. 6 Table of Contents We face a difficult current retail environment and changing economic conditions that may further adversely affect consumer demand and spending. Many industry analysts believe the current home furnishings environment is as difficult as the industry has ever experienced. Historically, the home furnishings industry has been subject to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. This historical uncertainty, combined with general economic uncertainty due to lagging consumer confidence, falling home prices and volatile and often erratic financial markets, may continue to cause inconsistent and unpredictable consumer spending habits. Should consumer demand for home furnishings continue at these current low levels for an extended period of time or further deteriorate, it will be difficult to achieve our planned level of financial improvement in 2009 and it could also impact the performance of our licensees and the ability of a number of them to meet their obligations to us. Competition from domestic and overseas manufacturers continues to increase and may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our wholesale business segment is involved in the development of our brand, which encompasses the design, manufacture, sourcing, sales and distribution of our home furnishings products, and competes with other U.S. and foreign manufacturers and other wholesalers. Industry globalization and the development of manufacturing capabilities in other countries, particularly within Asia , has led to increased competitive pressures brought about by the increasing volume of imported finished goods and components, particularly for case good products. The increase in overseas production capacity in recent years has created over-capacity for many foreign and U.S. manufacturers, including us, which has led to industry-wide plant consolidation in the U.S. In addition, because many foreign manufacturers are able to maintain substantially lower production costs, including the cost of labor and overhead, imported product is capable of being sold at a lower price to consumers, which, in turn, has led to additional industry-wide price deflation. Governments in the foreign countries where we source our products also may change their laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation and exchange controls which could make it more difficult to service our customers resulting in an adverse effect on our earnings. Our company-owned stores and others we may acquire in the future may not achieve the anticipated growth and profitability. Our Company-owned stores currently operate at a loss. Our goal is to operate these stores at break-even to ultimately protect the operating margins generated by our wholesale operation. To be successful, we need to increase our sales per store while decreasing the support costs as a percentage of sales. As part of our strategy, we must hire, train and retain a qualified staff of design consultants to improve the customer experience. Competition with other furniture retailers for qualified design consultants also continues to increase. We also compete with other retailers for management personnel and appropriate retail locations. Failures and delays in implementing our retail strategies or failure to realize the benefits of these strategies could adversely impact our business and operating results. Our licensee-owned stores may not be able to meet their obligations to us. We have a significant amount of accounts and notes receivable from our network of licensee-owned BFD stores. We also own some of the real estate that is leased to the licensees and guarantee some of the debt and/or leases of some of the licensees. If these stores do not generate the necessary level of sales and profits, they may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us resulting in increased bad debt expenses and real estate related losses. We receive a substantial amount of our earnings and cash flow from our investment in the International Home Furnishings Center (“IHFC”). We own 46.9% of IHFC which owns and leases permanent exhibition space in High Point, North Carolina to furniture and accessory manufacturers throughout the United States and in many foreign countries, who 7 Table of Contents showcase their products at the International Home Furnishings Market held each April and October. In fiscal 2008, we recognized $6,425 in earnings and received $6,091 in dividends from our investment in IHFC. There can be no assurance that we will continue to recognize this level of earnings or receive this level of dividends in the future as leases are typically for five years and the lessees may not renew their respective leases. In addition, changes in the overall home furnishings industry as well as the competing home furnishings market in Las Vegas could potentially impact the number of manufacturers showcasing their products at the High Point market, thereby reducing the demand for the exhibition space in High Point. In recent years, we have received a substantial amount of cash flow from liquidating our investments in The Bassett Furniture Industries Alternative Asset Fund LP and our marketable securities portfolio. Our remaining investments may not be readily convertible into cash and may decline in value. We have $23,053 invested in The Bassett Industries Alternative Asset Fund L.P. in which we are the only limited partner. Historically, the objective of the Fund has been to achieve consistent positive returns, while attempting to reduce risk and volatility, by placing its capital with a variety of hedge funds and experienced portfolio managers. Such hedge funds and portfolio managers have employed a variety of trading styles or strategies, including, but not limited to, convertible arbitrage, merger or risk arbitrage, distressed debt, long/short equity, multi-strategy and other market-neutral strategies. The general partner has discretion to make all investment and trading decisions, including the selection of investment managers. Our investment in the Fund includes investments in various other private limited partnerships, which contain contractual commitments with elements of market risk. These contractual commitments, which include fixed-income securities and derivatives, may involve future settlements, which give rise to both market and credit risk. The investment partnership’s exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition, and diversification of positions held, volatility of interest rates, market currency rates, and liquidity. Risks to these funds arise from possible adverse changes in the market value of such interests and the potential inability of counterparties to perform under the terms of the contracts. However, the risk to the Fund is limited to the amount of the Fund investment in each of the funds. In early 2008, we requested our general partner to attempt to liquidate all of our investments in the BIAAF. In 2008, we received $23,250 in fund redemptions. Due to the magnitude of redemption requests to the funds in which we are invested, we believe that our remaining investment will be redeemed within two to three years. However, there can be no assurance that we will receive our remaining investment within this timeframe and our investments may decline in value before they are fully redeemed. As such, these funds may not be available to support our operating cash flow needs, which could adversely affect on our financial condition and results of operations. At November 29, 2008, we have $12,007 in marketable securities on our balance sheet consisting of both equity and debt instruments. This portfolio is diversified among seven different money managers. Until 2008, the portfolio had produced significant positive results. During 2008, the portfolio declined significantly in value. There can be no assurance that this portfolio will return to profitability as it is subject to those risks inherent in the stock and money markets including: • changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, • changes in interest rates and the effects of inflation, and • changes in the outlook for the economy as a whole or shifts in investor attitudes. Additionally, substantially all of our marketable securities are pledged as collateral for our revolving credit agreement. To the extent the value of these marketable securities is below $16,000, our Borrowing Base, as defined, is decreased by 125% of the difference between $16,000 and the actual value of those securities. Unsuccessful implementation of our new store design, or failure to realize the intended benefits of the new design, may be detrimental to future operating results and financial condition. In 2007, we unveiled a new store prototype that we believe is critical to our retail success. The design of this store concept is based on extensive research we conducted and assessed over the past several years, including a 8 Table of Contents comprehensive market segmentation study completed in 2006. We believe this design, organized around four targeted lifestyles that portrays a more stylish residential feel, better communicates our interior design and custom furniture capabilities to the consumer. Utilizing the basic tenants of our new prototype as a guideline, we are in the midst of a visual standardization program that will ultimately permeate our entire fleet of stores. Implementation will occur in stages over the next few years and will logically display not only our styling point of view but also our points of differentiation in the marketplace. Failure to successfully implement the new store design and/or the visual standardization program, or to realize the intended benefits thereof, could prove costly and could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Consolidating variable interest entities into our financial statements may reduce our net income. Applicable accounting rules categorize an entity that does not have sufficient equity to carry out its business without our financial support as a “variable interest entity.” If some of our independent dealers do not generate the necessary level of sales and profits, they could be considered variable interest entities. If we are considered the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity’s business activities, the rules require us to consolidate its assets, liabilities, and results of operations into our consolidated financial statements. Once consolidated, the rules require us to absorb all of the dealer’s net losses in excess of its equity and to recognize its net earnings, but only to the extent of recouping losses we previously recorded. We continue to assess our licensees to determine whether other subordinated financial support will be required by us to ensure their continued operation, thereby requiring them to be consolidated. Should we be required to consolidate additional variable interest entities, our future earnings would likely be reduced. Failure to successfully anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales of our furniture are dependent upon consumer acceptance of our designs, styles, quality and price. As with all retailers, our business is susceptible to changes in consumer tastes and trends. We attempt to monitor changes in consumer tastes and home design trends through attendance at international industry events and fashion shows, internal marketing research, and communication with our retailers and design consultants who provide valuable input on consumer tendencies. However, such tastes and trends can change rapidly and any delay or failure to anticipate or respond to changing consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends upon our brand, marketing and advertising efforts and pricing strategies, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we are not successful in these efforts and strategies, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to our ability to expand our base of customers and drive increased traffic at both Company-owned and licensee-owned stores. Our advertising and marketing campaign utilizes television, direct mail, catalogs, newspapers, magazines and radio in an effort to maintain and enhance our existing brand equity. We cannot provide assurance that our marketing, advertising and other efforts to promote and maintain awareness of our brand will not require us to incur substantial costs. If these efforts are unsuccessful or we incur substantial costs in connection with these efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Manufacturing realignments could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings. We regularly review and evaluate our domestic manufacturing operations and offshore (import) sourcing capabilities. As a result, we sometimes realign those operations and capabilities and institute cost savings programs. These programs can include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. We also may shift certain products from domestic manufacturing to offshore sourcing. These 9 Table of Contents realignments and cost savings programs generally involve some initial cost and can result in decreases in our near-term earnings until we achieve the expected cost reductions. We may not always accomplish these actions as quickly as anticipated, and we may not fully achieve the expected cost reductions. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or cause production delays which might result in a decline in sales, either of which could adversely impact our earnings. We use various types of wood, foam, fibers, fabrics, leathers, and other raw materials in manufacturing our furniture. Certain of our raw materials, including fabrics, are purchased both abroad and domestically. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or a delay in manufacturing our products, which in turn could result in a delay in delivering products to our customers. For example, lumber prices fluctuate over time based on factors such as weather and demand, which in turn, impact availability. Production delays or upward trends in raw material prices could result in lower sales or margins, thereby adversely impacting our earnings. In addition, certain suppliers may require extensive advance notice of our requirements in order to produce products in the quantities we desire. This long lead time may require us to place orders far in advance of the time when certain products will be offered for sale, thereby exposing us to risks relating to shifts in consumer demand and trends, and any further downturn in the U.S. economy. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 