Item 1A. Risk Factors A decline in information technology spending may result in a decrease in our revenue or lower growth rates. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Our business depends on overall economic conditions, the economic and business conditions in our target markets and the spending environment for information technology. A weakening of the economy in one or more of our geographic regions, may cause reductions in the level of overall spending by our customers or potential -7- Table of Contents customers on IT, which could materially adversely affect demand for our products and services and result in decreased revenue, longer sales cycles or lower growth rates because our sales depend in part on our customers’ level of funding for new or additional IT systems or services. A decrease in overall spending would substantially reduce the number of new software licenses we sell or may cause price erosion for our products, which would reduce the average sales price for these licenses. In addition, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, military actions, and events or effects occurring in response to those developments may negatively affect the climate for spending and may reduce the amount or delay the timing of expenditures by corporations for IT solutions. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain or increase our revenue. Our lengthy and variable sales cycle makes it difficult to predict our operating results. Many of our customers use our products for their sophisticated integration and SOA strategies which require them to make complex decisions, including: • alternative approaches to integration of enterprise applications; • competitive product offerings and pricing; • limited internal resources and purchasing priorities; and • rapidly changing software technologies and standards. As a result, our prospective customers often dedicate a significant amount of time to evaluating both IONA and our products before entering into a business relationship with us. Our customers and prospective customers give consideration to our financial condition and strategic direction when evaluating whether to license products or purchase services from us. Consequently, the period between initial customer contact and purchase by a customer may extend to twelve months or more. During the evaluation process, prospective customers may decide not to purchase, may delay a purchase or may scale down proposed orders of our products. This lengthy and variable sales cycle makes it difficult to forecast the timing and recognition of our revenue and therefore predict our operating results. We may experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue that could adversely impact our operating results. Our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Historically, our product revenue in the first quarter of each year has declined from the fourth quarter of the prior year primarily due to the impact of a decrease in capital expenditures by our customers after calendar year-end. Revenue in any quarter depends substantially upon our ability to sign contracts and our ability to recognize revenue in that quarter in accordance with revenue recognition policies. Therefore, you should not rely on period to period comparisons of revenue or results of operations as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our ordinary shares and American Depository Shares, or ADSs, could fall substantially. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the following: • similarly to others in the software industry, a significant number of our prospective customers decide whether to enter into license agreements with us within the last month of each quarter in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms; • difficulty predicting the size and timing of customer orders due to our lengthy and variable sales cycle and our customers’ often lengthy internal approval and expenditure authorization processes; • the demand for our products may change; • customers may unexpectedly postpone orders due to changes in their strategic priorities, project objectives, budget or personnel; -8- Table of Contents • customer evaluations and purchasing processes vary significantly from company to company, and a customer’s internal approval and expenditure authorization process can be difficult and time consuming to complete, even after selection of a vendor; • the number, timing and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by us and our competitors may affect purchase decisions; and • we may have to defer revenue under our revenue recognition policies. Fluctuations in our quarterly revenue may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal quarter our expense levels, operating costs and hiring plans are based on projections of future revenue and are relatively fixed in the short term. If our actual revenue falls below expectations, we could experience a reduction in operating results. We have experienced significant variations in operating results and anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. Our levels of operating results have varied significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. These variations are attributable to fluctuations in revenue and costs, including costs associated with the development and introduction of new products and services, charges associated with acquisitions, and certain expenses attributable to the settlement of litigation, restructuring and impairment of goodwill, other assets and property and equipment. There can be no certainty that we will not experience similar variations in operating results in future periods for these or other factors, and any such variation could have a significant impact on the market value of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our future revenue depends upon the evolution and adoption of Web services and related integration and infrastructure solutions in support of new computing models including SOA. We believe that large organizations will continue to adopt Web services and related integration and infrastructure solutions, including ESB products to support their SOA adoption strategies. Therefore, we have invested significant resources in developing and introducing products to meet the development, deployment and integration requirements of enterprises using Web services for integration and SOA. If the enterprise adoption of Web services, and Web services-based ESBs, for these purposes does not evolve as we anticipate or fails to grow as quickly as we expect, we may be unable to implement our strategy or achieve the growth rate that we target. The acceptance of our Artix family of distributed SOA infrastructure products and services and our FUSE family of open source SOA infrastructure products and services also depends upon the development and proliferation of Web services standards for application integration and SOA. If these standards do not continue to develop or are not widely accepted, the demand for our products and services may not materialize. Consequently, our business prospects and financial condition would suffer. Our open source offerings may never become profitable or achieve widespread acceptance. Open source-based business models are new and experimental. We may find that the business offerings that we are developing around open source technology are not as profitable as we anticipate, that the technology adoption and marketing benefits that we expect are not realized or that our open source offerings undermine sales of our other products. Because of the characteristics of open source technology and of development and licensing practices in the open source software community, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market. New competitors with greater resources than us may easily enter the open source software market and compete with us. Competitors can modify the existing software or develop new software with lower overhead and lead-time than typically required in the development of traditional proprietary software. It is possible for a competitor to develop its own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for our solutions. -9- Table of Contents As part of our open source initiative we have become involved in the Eclipse Foundation’s SOA Tooling Platform Project and are active in several Apache Software Foundation open source projects. Theses activities are part of the foundation of IONA’s FUSE family of open source distributed SOA infrastructure offerings. The acceptance of FUSE and the success of our open source initiative depend upon the adoption of this technology by others, which we can influence but cannot control. We may be unable to accurately predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our complementary commercial products and damage our reputation. Different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. Typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. If we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our products may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish the IONA brand and result in decreased revenue. In addition, if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance the open source technologies that underlie our FUSE products, we may be unable to enhance our products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. If we fail to keep pace with rapidly evolving technology and changing customer needs, our business will suffer. The market for infrastructure software is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. Therefore, our success will depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce and market new products to meet changing customer requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we experience delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products, or if we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to these changes, our products could be rendered obsolete and our business could be materially harmed. The loss of one or more major customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Sales to Boeing represented approximately 18% and 17%, respectively, of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. In addition, due in part to industry consolidation in the telecommunications market, sales to AT&T represented approximately 11% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The loss of either or both of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our customer relationships or lose their business to a competitor and fail to replace them with new customers, or if any major customer significantly decreases its orders for our products and services, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in fiscal 2008 and for the foreseeable future. We derive a significant amount of revenue from customers in a limited number of industries and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by significant changes in those industries. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from customers in a limited number of industries, including financial services, telecommunications, manufacturing/distribution and government. A general reduction in IT spending in the financial services, telecommunications or manufacturing/distribution industries or by governments and government agencies, or industry-wide changes in our customers’ spending priorities, would adversely impact our business and operating results. In addition, significant changes, including industry consolidation or changes in government spending patterns, could harm our business and operating results as well as increase our dependence on any particular customer. -10- Table of Contents We depend on large transactions to derive a significant portion of our revenue, and the delay or loss of any large customer order could adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from large transactions which often involve negotiated terms and conditions. These terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in certain situations, result in deferred recognition of revenue from the sale. Prospective sales are subject to delays or cancellation over which we have little or no control. Moreover, prospective customers give consideration to our financial condition and strategic direction when deciding whether to engage in transactions with us. If any large customer order anticipated for a particular quarter is not realized or is delayed, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenue, which could significantly and adversely affect our operating results. We may be unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We depend to a significant extent on the continued service of a limited number of senior executives and personnel with specific technological expertise that is in short supply. We also depend on our ability to develop additional management personnel and hire new qualified employees. We face intense competition for highly qualified personnel. We have historically used equity incentive programs, such as employee stock purchase plans, as part of our overall employee compensation arrangements. The volatility of our stock price may negatively impact the value of such equity incentives, thereby diminishing the value of such incentive programs and decreasing the effectiveness of such programs as retention and recruiting tools. In addition, an employee’s or prospective employee’s perception of our financial condition or the likelihood of our entering into a strategic combination may negatively impact our ability to attract or retain highly qualified personnel. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting highly qualified personnel and may have to change our compensation packages in order to remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining existing personnel or recruiting new personnel. If we fail to attract, retain or assimilate key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations would materially suffer. Potential defects or errors in our software products could cause our revenue to decrease, cause us to lose customers, damage our reputation, expose us to litigation and harm our revenues or earnings. The products that we offer include both enhancements to existing products and newly launched products with no history of customer adoption. Despite careful engineering, our products may contain undetected defects or errors that may be detected at any point in the product’s life cycle. If we discover a defect or an error in our product, we may experience delays in generating revenue while correcting the problem. In addition, our products are often used in combination with products of other vendors which can make it difficult to identify the source of any problem. When such defects or errors occur, our business has the potential to experience, among other things: • loss of customers; • damage to our reputation; • loss or delay of market acceptance or revenue; • increased service or warranty costs; or • legal action by our customers. Although our customer contracts include provisions to limit our exposure to product liability claims, changes in laws or unfavorable judicial decisions may limit or prevent us from being able to avoid or limit liability for disputes relating to product performance or the provision of services. If we do not manage our expenses and geographically dispersed operations successfully, we may be unable to respond to changing market conditions. The demand for IT integration solutions has become increasingly difficult to predict. To manage this unpredictability and to react to global economic conditions generally, we have taken measures to bring our workforce, staffing and structure in line with perceived current demand for our products. If we misjudge our -11- Table of Contents personnel needs or cannot successfully manage our expenses, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our future operating results will depend substantially upon the ability of our management to anticipate changing business conditions and manage personnel and other costs while increasing revenue. We face additional risks in managing geographically dispersed operations. Some of our key executives and managers are based in our Dublin, Ireland headquarters while others are based in our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary’s Waltham, Massachusetts office. Accordingly, our ability to compete successfully will depend in part on the ability of a limited number of key executives and managers located in geographically dispersed offices to integrate management, to address the needs of our worldwide customer base and to respond to changes in our market. In addition, our ability to manage our operations and financial performance would be materially adversely affected if terrorist attacks or military or other political events prohibit or restrict the travel of our personnel. We may be required to delay the recognition of revenue until future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. We may have to defer revenue recognition due to several factors, including whether: • we are required to accept extended payment terms; • the transaction involves contingent payment terms or fees; • the transaction involves acceptance criteria or there are identified product-related issues; or • license agreements include products that are under development or other undelivered elements. Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our license agreements to recognize revenue when we initially deliver our products or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle, and sometimes we do not obtain terms and conditions that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on a project is completed. We currently derive most of our revenue from a limited number of products. To date, we have derived most of our revenue from the licensing of our Orbix and Artix families of products and fees from related services. We expect our Orbix family of products to continue to account for a significant part of our revenue for the foreseeable future as our Artix and FUSE products gain market acceptance. As a result, a reduction in demand for, or sales of, these products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business will depend, in significant part, on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new products and enhanced versions of our existing products. The failure to successfully develop, introduce or market new products or enhancements or additions to our existing products would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully expand and manage our direct sales force and other distribution channels, we may not be able to increase our revenue. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend in large part on our ability to expand and manage our direct sales force, independent software vendors, value-added resellers and system integrators. We plan to continue to invest in, and rely on sales through, these direct and indirect distribution channels. Our ability to expand our direct and indirect distribution channels may be impacted by the perception of our financial condition or the perceived likelihood of a strategic combination. We may not be able to expand or manage successfully our direct sales force or develop and manage other distribution channels. If we have difficulty hiring, retaining and motivating our direct sales force, if our relationships with these software vendors, value-added resellers or system integrators deteriorate or terminate, or if we are unable to form new relationships, -12- Table of Contents we may lose important sales and marketing opportunities. Further, any such expansion may not result in an increase in revenue or operating income. Use of indirect distribution channels involves a number of risks, including: • disputes and channel conflict regarding marketing strategy, exclusive territories and customer relationships that could negatively affect our business or result in costly litigation; • increased promotion of competing IT integration solutions; and • abrupt discontinuation of their relationships with us or support for our products or services. In addition, if our software vendors and system integrators are unable to recruit and adequately train a sufficient number of personnel to support the implementation of our software products, or they otherwise do not adequately perform services, we may lose customers. If we fail to expand and manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations would materially suffer and our competitive position would be weakened. We also may enter into joint arrangements with strategic partners to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products, or to license our offerings as part of integrated solutions. Our business may be adversely affected if these strategic partners change their business priorities or experience difficulties in their operations, which in either case causes them to terminate or reduce their support for these joint arrangements. We operate in highly competitive markets and we may be unable to compete successfully. The market for infrastructure software solutions is highly competitive. We expect this competition to continue to increase. Our products compete with offerings from a number of established infrastructure vendors, as well as offerings from new software companies and even shareware and freeware providers. Some of these companies offer products that compete with single components of our product set, while other companies market a set of products designed to solve broad integration problems. We compete principally against vendors of: • enterprise infrastructure software; • enterprise application integration software; • Web services integration software; • enterprise service bus software; and • open source software projects and products. We believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the demand for our products; • the development of software by others that is competitive with our products; • the price at which others offer comparable products; • the ability of our competitors to respond effectively to customer needs; • the ability of our competitors to market their products aggressively and effectively; and • the ability of our competitors to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. In addition, a number of our larger competitors have substantially greater technical, financial, sales, marketing, customer support, professional services and other resources, as well as greater name recognition, than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products, or establish more successful strategic relationships with industry leaders and other third parties than we can. -13- Table of Contents Further, certain of our larger competitors may be able to offer competitive products or technologies as part of their broader product or service offerings or may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among our current and potential competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. This type of competition could materially adversely affect our ability to license products and provide services on terms favorable to us. Among our smaller competitors, the competition for retaining market share is intense. Due to competitive pressures, we could be forced to reduce the price of our products and related services or change our pricing models. Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and service revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Lower revenue or reduced prices would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. In addition, many of our competitors have significant installed bases that include our current and potential customers. Once a customer has installed the products of one of our competitors, it may be difficult to convince the customer to adopt or purchase our products. If we are unable to further penetrate our existing customer base or sell to new clients, our business prospects and financial condition would suffer. We face various risks associated with our international operations that could cause our operating results to suffer. We are incorporated in Ireland and substantial portions of our product development, marketing, sales and administrative functions are located in Ireland. Our revenue is derived, and our operations are conducted, worldwide. We expect that operations outside of the U.S. will continue to account for a significant portion of our business and expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the U.S. Because of the international character of our business, we are subject to risks such as: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could make our products more expensive in certain countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could cause our expenses to be higher then anticipated; • political unrest, war or terrorism in various jurisdictions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; • failure to enter into relationships with local resellers, system integrators or other third party vendors, or to introduce localized products; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and • differing laws affecting the enforceability of our intellectual property rights resulting in the potential loss of our proprietary information. Our failure to anticipate, plan for and manage these risks could result in a decrease in revenue derived from customers outside the U.S., and our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. Acquisitions may be necessary for the continued growth of our business. We may be unable to identify or complete suitable acquisitions, and any acquisitions we do complete may create business difficulties or be dilutive to our current shareholders. As part of our business strategy, we may need or choose to pursue strategic acquisitions with companies that offer complementary products, services or technologies. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition -14- Table of Contents candidates. If we do identify suitable acquisition candidates, we may be unable to make acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, in the event that we do complete acquisitions of businesses, technologies or products, we will face many potential risks, including: • the negative effects of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation; • the failure of an acquired business to further our strategies; • the failure of the acquisition to result in expected benefits, which may include benefits relating to enhanced revenues, technology, human resources, costs savings, operating efficiencies and other synergies; • the difficulty and cost of integrating the acquired business, including costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures and costs and delays caused by communication difficulties or geographic distances between sites; • the assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including debt and litigation-related liabilities; • the impairment of acquired assets; • the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • the impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers of the acquired business or our customers or suppliers; • the loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • the incompatibility of business cultures. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. To the extent that we issue equity or other rights to purchase our securities in connection with any future acquisition, existing shareholders may experience dilution and our earnings per share may decrease. If our effective tax rate increases, our business and financial results would be adversely impacted. We have significant operations and generate a substantial portion of our taxable income in Ireland. In general, the tax rate in Ireland on trading income, which is 12.5%, is significantly lower than U.S. tax rates. Moreover, our Irish taxable income derived from software substantially developed in Ireland is taxed at a 10% effective tax rate through December 31, 2010. If our operations no longer qualify for these favorable tax treatments or if the tax laws were rescinded or changed, our effective tax rate would increase and our net income would decrease, thereby materially adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, we are required to pay taxes in other jurisdictions in which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have accrued, paid or reported, and as a result, we engage in discussions, and sometimes get involved in disputes, with these tax authorities. If these tax authorities were to be successful in their challenge of the manner in which we recognize profits or, more generally, the jurisdiction in which our income is subject to taxation, our effective tax rate could increase and our cash flow and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our U.S. holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to the holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs. U.S. persons should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares or ADSs. -15- Table of Contents The rights of shareholders in Irish corporations may be more limited than the rights of shareholders in U.S. corporations. The rights of holders of our ordinary shares and, therefore, some of the rights of the holders of our ADSs, are governed by Irish law and the laws of the European Union. As a result, the rights of our shareholders differ from, and may be more limited than, the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, Irish law significantly limits the circumstances under which shareholders of Irish corporations may bring derivative actions. We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and others could obtain and use our technology without our authorization. We regard certain of our technologies as proprietary, and we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged or circumvented by third parties. In addition, the laws of various countries in which our products may be licensed may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. and Ireland. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements and limit access to, and distribution of our proprietary information, it is possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. It is possible that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will not be adequate and legal action to protect our proprietary rights could be too costly to pursue or ultimately ineffective if pursued. Any unauthorized reproduction of our software or inadequate protection of our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to obtain rights, or lose existing rights, to use and incorporate third-party technology into our products, we may have to stop selling and shipping products and incur significant development or license expenses to develop or otherwise obtain replacement technology. We use and incorporate third-party technology in our products. If we do not have adequate rights to use this technology or our rights terminate, we could be required to: • stop using the third-party technology; • stop selling and shipping our products in which the third-party technology is used; or • incur significant expenses to identify and obtain replacement technology or develop similar technology or to obtain a new license to the third-party technology. We may not be able to develop technology or identify other technology with functionality similar to this third-party technology. In addition, we may not be able to obtain a license to this third-party technology on acceptable terms or at all, and we may be liable for damages in the event of any unauthorized use. If any of these events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be exposed to significant liability if we infringe upon the intellectual property or proprietary rights of others. Third parties have notified us, and others may notify us, from time to time, that they believe we are infringing certain of their patents and other intellectual property rights. The risk of infringement may increase because of our use of and involvement with open source technology. Certain open source software is licensed pursuant to license agreements that require a user who distributes the open source software as a component of the user’s software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user’s software. This effectively renders what was previously proprietary software open source software. We do incorporate open source components into our proprietary products in order to reduce development costs and speed up the development process. While we monitor the use of all open source software and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product, such use could -16- Table of Contents inadvertently occur. Additionally, if a third party incorporates this type of open source software into its software but has failed to disclose the presence of such open source software and we embed that third party software into our products, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our product. Disclosure of our source code could have a material adverse effect on our business. Responding to a claim of infringement, regardless of its merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. In the event that any such assertion is resolved adversely to us, we could be required to: • disclose our source code; • discontinue the use of certain processes; • cease the use and sale of infringing products and services; • pay damages; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • obtain licenses to competing technology; or • indemnify customers under certain clauses relating to intellectual property rights in our licenses. We may be unable to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain licenses, if adverse or protracted litigation arises out of any such assertion, if we are required to disclose our source code, or if litigation damages are assessed, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory compliance, including the cost of complying with legislative actions and potential new accounting pronouncements, may result in increased costs that would affect our future financial position and results of operations. We have already incurred, and will continue to incur, significant increased costs associated with our compliance with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Regulatory compliance, including the cost of complying with legislative actions and changes in accounting rules may materially increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In 2007, we continued to perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm, to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have hired and may need to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services in order to maintain our compliance with this and other requirements, all of which has and will cause our general and administrative costs to increase. Moreover, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Global Market (formerly known as the NASDAQ National Market), or NASDAQ, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our transition from “foreign private issuer” status to domestic issuer status under the Exchange Act requires that we comply with certain provisions of the Exchange Act that we were not obligated to comply with as a foreign private issuer, including, among other things, the need to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. We may need to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services in order to comply with these new requirements, which could materially increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. -17- Table of Contents In addition, increased claims rates or changes in our risk profile could result in higher costs for our insurance, including our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies, which could materially increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We have recently undertaken cost reduction actions. Any failure by us to execute planned cost reductions successfully may have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. In January 2008, we initiated plans to streamline operations and reduce expenses, which included cuts in discretionary spending, reductions in capital expenditures, reductions in the work force and consolidation of certain office locations, as well as other steps to reduce expenses. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not limited to: (1) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (2) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect due to implementation challenges in carrying out planned cost reduction activities or delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly-regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Asia; and (3) decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to an inability to retain key employees or recruit new employees. If we experience any of these difficulties in carrying out our restructuring plan, our expenses could remain at a level higher than anticipated or increase more quickly than projected. There can be no assurance that our cost reductions will achieve the anticipated results or achieve the anticipated results in the expected timeframe. If we find that our restructuring plan does not achieve our objectives, it may be necessary to implement a further reduction of our expenses, to perform additional reductions in our headcount, or to undertake additional restructurings of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 