1A Risk Factors – “We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products.” and “Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business.” To distinguish genuine Logitech products from competing products and counterfeit products, Logitech has used, registered, or applied to register certain trademarks and trade names in the U.S. and in foreign countries and jurisdictions. Logitech enforces its trademark and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, the software for Logitech’s products and services is entitled to copyright protection, and we generally require our customers to obtain a software license before providing them with that software. We also protect details about our products and services as trade secrets through employee training, license and non-disclosure agreements and technical measures. 17 Environmental Regulation We are subject to laws and regulations in many jurisdictions regulating the materials used in our products and, increasingly, product related energy consumption, the recycling of our products and of their packaging. Europe. In Europe we are subject to the European Union’s (“EU”) Directive on the Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Equipment (“RoHS”). This directive restricts the placement into the EU market of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium, and halogenated flame-retardants. Most Logitech products are covered by the directive and have been modified, if necessary, to be RoHS compliant. Logitech has an active program to ensure compliance with the RoHS directive and continues to source and introduce the use of RoHS compliant components and manufacturing methods in order to comply with the requirements of the directive. Logitech is also subject to the Energy-related Products Directive (“ErP”), which aims to encourage manufacturers and importers to produce products designed to minimize overall environmental impact. Under the directive, manufacturers must ensure that their energy-related products comply with applicable requirements, issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the ‘CE’ mark. The directive does not have binding requirements for specific products, but does define conditions and criteria for setting, through subsequent implementing measures, requirements regarding environmentally relevant product characteristics. To date the following implementing measures within the ErP directive are active and applicable to Logitech products: Eco-design requirements for standby and off mode electric power consumption of electrical and electronic household and office equipment. Eco-design requirements for no-load condition power consumption and average active efficiency of external power supplies. Logitech has assessed the applicability of these implementing measures on relevant product lines and has taken steps to ensure that our products meet the requirements. Adoption of the ErP directive will be aligned in all EU member states and conformity will be demonstrated by Logitech in conjunction with current CE conformity marking requirements. We are also subject to a number of End of Life (“EOL”) Stewardship directives including the EU’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“WEEE”), the EU Packaging Directive and the EU Battery Directive, which require producers of electrical goods, packaging and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging and batteries. Logitech has also assessed the applicability of the European REACH directive (Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restrictions of Chemicals). This directive does not currently impact Logitech due to our current manufacturing structure and product content. If the directive impacts Logitech in the future, we intend to comply with the applicable requirements. China. In China we are subject to China’s law on Management Methods on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products (“China RoHS”). This is substantially similar to the EU RoHS directive and as such, Logitech products are already compliant. China RoHS requires additional labelling of product that will be shipped in China and Logitech has taken steps to help ensure we comply with these requirements. United States and Canada. In the U.S., we are subject to, among other laws, Appliance Efficiency Regulations adopted via the U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of Logitech’s products. The standards apply to appliances sold or offered for sale throughout the U.S., and Logitech has redesigned or changed products to comply with these regulations. We are also subject to California’s Proposition 65, which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the state of California to be dangerous, such as lead. 18 In Canada, we are subject to laws in various Canadian provinces that impose fees to cover the cost of recycling packaging. Australia and New Zealand. In Australia and New Zealand, we are subject to the Minimum Energy Performance Standards (“MEPS”) regulations. These regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of Logitech’s products. We have taken steps to modify products to ensure they are in compliance with MEPS. We expect further laws governing product and packaging recycling to be introduced in other jurisdictions, many or most of which could impose fees to cover recycling costs, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. If such legislation is enacted in other countries, Logitech intends to develop compliance programs as necessary. However, until that time, we are not able to estimate any possible impact. The effects on Logitech’s business of complying with other government regulations are limited to the cost of allocation of the appropriate resources for agency fees and testing as well as the time required to obtain agency approvals. There are also stewardship costs associated with the end of life collection, recycling and recovery of Logitech products, packaging and batteries where Logitech is recognized as the Steward and participates in relevant schemes. The costs and schedule requirements are industry requirements and therefore do not represent an undue burden relative to Logitech’s competitive position. As regulations change, we will seek to modify our products or processes to address those changes. Seasonality Our retail personal peripheral product sales are typically seasonal. Sales are generally highest during our third fiscal quarter (October to December), due primarily to the increased demand for our products during the year-end holiday buying season, and to a lesser extent in the fourth fiscal quarter (January to March). Our sales in the first and second quarters can vary significantly as a result of new product introductions and other factors. Accordingly, we believe that year-over-year comparisons are more indicative of variability in our results of operations than current quarter to prior quarter comparisons. The deteriorating retail environment in the second half of fiscal year 2009 resulted in an atypical sales pattern, with sales declining in the second half of fiscal year 2009 compared with the first half. Our enterprise product sales are generally not seasonal. Materials We purchase some of our products and the key components used in our products from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers, optical sensors and LifeSize hardware products, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed. Due to the recent global economic downturn, we are subject to a higher risk of insolvency of our key suppliers, possibly resulting in product delays. In addition, lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs. 19 Employees As of March 31, 2010, we employed 9,944 people. None of Logitech’s U.S. employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Certain foreign countries, such as China, provide by law for employee rights, which include requirements similar to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of May 26, 2010: Name Age Nationality Position Guerrino De Luca 57 Italian Chairman of the Board Gerald P. Quindlen 50 U.S. President and Chief Executive Officer Erik Bardman 43 U.S. Sr. Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Werner Heid 51 German Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing David Henry 53 U.S. Sr. Vice President, Customer Experience and Chief Marketing Officer Junien Labrousse 52 French Executive Vice President, Products L. Joseph Sullivan 56 U.S. Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Operations Guerrino De Luca has served as Chairman of the Logitech Board of Directors since January 2008. Previously, Mr. De Luca served as Logitech’s President and Chief Executive Officer from February 1998, when he joined the Company, to January 2008. He has been an executive member of the Board of Directors since June 1998. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. De Luca served as Executive Vice President of Worldwide Marketing for Apple, Inc. from February 1997 to September 1997, and as President of Claris Corporation, a U.S. personal computing software vendor, from May 1994 to February 1997. Prior to joining Claris, Mr. De Luca held various positions with Apple in the United States and in Europe. Mr. De Luca holds a BS degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Rome, Italy. Gerald P. Quindlen has been Logitech’s President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2008, previously serving as Logitech’s Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing since he joined the Company in October 2005. From August 1987 to September 2004, Mr. Quindlen worked for Eastman Kodak Company where he was most recently Vice President of Global Sales and Operations for the Consumer and Professional Imaging Division and previously held senior sales or marketing management positions in the United States, Japan and Asia Pacific. From September 2004 to September 2005, Mr. Quindlen was a private consultant. Prior to his 17 year tenure at Eastman Kodak, he worked for Mobil Oil Corporation in engineering. Mr. Quindlen holds a BS degree in chemical engineering from Villanova University in Pennsylvania, and an MBA degree in Finance from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School. Erik Bardman joined Logitech as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in October 2009. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Bardman served as a financial consultant to Zillion TV, an interactive television service company. Previously, he had been with eBay from 2003 to 2008, most recently as the chief financial officer for eBay Marketplaces, the company’s largest portfolio of businesses. At eBay, Mr. Bardman led a large global team focused on financial strategy, acquisitions, resource allocation and performance analysis. Prior to joining eBay, Mr. Bardman was with General Electric Company for 15 years in a variety of roles, developing broad expertise in consumer financial services, international finance and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Bardman earned a BA degree from Dickinson College in Pennsylvania, with a major in history and a minor in economics. He is a graduate of GE’s intensive Financial Management Program. 20 Werner Heid joined Logitech as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales & Marketing, in February 2009. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Heid was a consultative CEO to private equity firms from 2006 to 2009. Previously, he served as the president and chief executive officer of Iomega Corporation, the provider of consumer and small-business data-storage solutions, from 2001 to 2006. Before joining Iomega, Mr. Heid was the executive vice president of global sales, marketing and service for InFocus Corporation, a leading supplier of multimedia projection systems for consumers and business, from 2000 to 2001. He joined InFocus when it acquired Proxima Corporation, where Mr. Heid served as president from 1998 to 2000. Prior to taking on his leadership role at Proxima, Mr. Heid was with Hewlett-Packard Company for 14 years, in both Europe and the United States. At Hewlett-Packard, he led the business definition and the successful global market launch of the company’s All-In-One and color copier product businesses. Mr. Heid holds a masters degree in electrical engineering from University Karlsruhe in Germany. David Henry joined Logitech as Senior Vice President, Control Devices Business Unit, in August 2001 and was named Senior Vice President, Customer Experience and Chief Marketing Officer in March 2007. From January 2000 to June 2001, Mr. Henry served as Vice President of Business Development and Product Management of Xigo Inc., a U.S. on-line intelligence software company. From November 1997 to January 2000, Mr. Henry held various positions with Iomega, a U.S. portable storage company. His last position with Iomega was Vice President and General Manager of Magnetic Products. Mr. Henry holds a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from Union College of New York. Junien Labrousse joined Logitech as Vice President of the Video Division in 1997. He was named Senior Vice President, Video Business Unit in April 2001, Senior Vice President, Entertainment and Communications in July 2005 and Executive Vice President, Products in March 2007. Prior to joining Logitech, he was Vice President of Engineering from 1995 to 1997 at Winnov LP, a U.S. company engaged in the development and marketing of multimedia products. For more than 10 years he held several engineering and management positions at Royal Philips Electronics NV, a global electronics company, in research and in the semiconductor business division. Mr. Labrousse holds an MS degree in Electrical Engineering from the Ecole Superieure d’Ingenieurs de Marseille, France and an MBA degree from Santa Clara University in California. L. Joseph Sullivan joined Logitech in October 2005 as Vice President, Operations Strategy, and was appointed Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations in April 2006. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Sullivan was Vice President of Operational Excellence and Quality for Carrier Corporation, a subsidiary of United Technologies, from 2001 to 2005. Previously, he was with ACCO Brands, Inc. in engineering and manufacturing management roles from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Sullivan holds a BS degree in Marketing Management and an MBA degree in Operations Management from Suffolk University in Massachusetts. Available Information Our Investor Relations Web site is located at http://ir.logitech.com. We post and maintain an archive of our earnings and other press releases, current reports, annual and quarterly reports, earnings release schedule, information regarding annual general meetings, further information on corporate governance, and other information regarding the Company on the Investor Relations Web site. The information we post includes, and in the future will include, filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 20-F, 6-K, 8-K, our proxy statement related to our annual shareholders’ meeting and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to U.S. securities laws. All such filings and information are available free of charge on the web site, and we make them available on the web site as soon as reasonably possible after we file or furnish them with the SEC. The contents of these web sites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and our references to these Web sites are intended to be inactive textual references only. In addition, Logitech publishes press releases upon occurrence of significant events within Logitech. Shareholders and members of the public may elect to receive e-mails when Logitech issues press releases upon occurrence of significant events within Logitech or other press releases by subscribing through http://ir.logitech.com/alerts.cfm. 21 As a Swiss company traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange, and as a company subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we file reports on transactions in Logitech securities by members of Logitech’s board of directors and executive officers. The reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 3, 4 and 5 may be accessed on our website or on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov, and the reports we file that are published by the SIX Swiss Exchange may be accessed at: http://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/obligations/management_transactions_en.html. For no charge, a copy of our filings made with the SEC can be requested by contacting our Investor Relations department: Logitech Investor Relations, 6505 Kaiser Drive, Fremont, CA 94555 USA, Main 510-795-8500, email: investorrelations@logitech.com The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The strength and timing of the anticipated improvement of our business is uncertain, and economic conditions have and could continue to significantly harm our operating results. The global economic recession has had a significant negative impact on our business. We anticipate that our business and operating results will continue to improve, in part as a result of the steps we have taken in response to general economic conditions. However, the strength and precise timing of future improvement of our business is uncertain. In addition, the recession may continue to have the following negative effects on our business, operating results, and financial condition: Reduced sales to our customers, reflecting current and anticipated lower end-user consumer demand for our products as well as a shift in consumer buying patterns toward lower-priced products. Reduced sales, or sales lower than we expect, in our EMEA sales region (which represented 45% of our total net sales in fiscal 2010), as a result of continuing economic uncertainty in Europe and the potential continuing decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar. Risk of future customer bankruptcy or business failures, resulting in lower sales levels and increases in bad debt write-offs and receivables reserves. Higher costs for customer incentive programs, cooperative marketing arrangements and price protection used to stimulate demand, which lowers our net sales. Increased downward pressure on our product prices as we lower prices to stimulate demand or reduce inventory, or as competitors lower prices to gain market share in slow-growing or shrinking markets. Product returns in excess of our historical experience rate, resulting in higher returns reserves rates. Risk of excess and obsolete inventories. Financial distress or bankruptcy of key suppliers, resulting in insufficient product quantities to meet demand for particular products. Risk of counterparty failures due to continuing stress on financial institutions, which may negatively impact cash, cash equivalents and investment securities. If our business does not improve as we expect, or if global economic conditions deteriorate, our operating results in a given quarter could be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. 22 Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete and for many other reasons, including the following: Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. A significant portion of our quarterly retail sales typically occurs in the last weeks of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, the weakness in consumer spending caused by the current global economic recession has limited our ability to increase local currency selling prices, which has negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect our ability to offset the impact of currency fluctuations. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, our results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. We may encounter difficulties with our acquisition of LifeSize Communications, and may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In December 2009, we acquired LifeSize Communications, Inc., a privately-held company providing high definition video communication solutions. This acquisition is part of the Company’s strategy to acquire, when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel and technologies that complement our strategic direction and roadmap. Our acquisition of LifeSize involves risks and uncertainties, including: Insufficient future revenues and profitability of LifeSize, which could negatively impact our consolidated results. Significant goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition, which could require an impairment and resulting reduction in consolidated results if future revenues and profitability of LifeSize do not meet expectations. Increased or unpredictable resource allocation requirements for LifeSize, which could impact the availability of resources for other Logitech strategic or operational investments. Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from the acquisition. Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains, relatively small supply partners, or a limited number of suppliers. Exposure to potential product quality issues. 23 In addition, through our acquisition of LifeSize, we have entered the market for enterprise video conferencing. Although we plan to maintain the LifeSize enterprise sales organization, we have little experience with selling to enterprise accounts, or in marketing to large enterprises. We will also be exposed to additional competitors in the video conferencing market, some of which may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers complete video conferencing installations, they may require greater levels of service and support than we have provided in the past. Demand for these types of services and support may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, services and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Further, provision of greater levels of services and support by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. Any of these and other factors, many of which are out of our control, could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. There can be no assurance that LifeSize product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to LifeSize products. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our acquisition of LifeSize or other future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. If we fail to successfully innovate in our current and emerging product categories, our business and operating results could suffer. The personal peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually innovate in our current and emerging product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. The success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to: identify new features or product opportunities; anticipate changes in technology, market trends, and consumer and business demands; develop innovative and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner; and distinguish our products from those of our competitors. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be harmed. If we do not successfully innovate and market products for notebook PCs, tablets and other mobile devices, our business and results of operations may suffer. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform, a market that is dynamically changing as a result of the declining popularity of desktop PCs and the increasing popularity of notebook PCs and mobile devices, such as netbooks, tablets, mobile phones and smaller form factor devices with computing or web surfing capabilities. In our OEM channel, this shift has adversely affected our sales of OEM mice, which are sold with name-brand desktop PCs. Our OEM mice sales have historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales, and our OEM sales accounted for 10% and 15% of total revenues during fiscal years 2010 and 2009. If the desktop PC market continues to experience slower growth or decline, and if we do not successfully diversify our OEM business, our OEM revenues could be adversely affected. 24 In our retail channels, notebook PCs and mobile devices are sold by retailers without peripherals. We believe this creates opportunities to sell products to consumers to help make their devices more productive and comfortable. However, consumer acceptance and demand for peripherals for use with smaller form factor computing devices such as notebook PCs and mobile devices is still uncertain. The increasing popularity of notebook PCs and mobile devices may result in a decreased demand by consumers for keyboards and speakers, which could negatively affect our sales of these products. The increasing popularity of mobile devices has coincided with a steadily decreasing average sales price for computing devices, including for desktop and notebook PCs. As a result, there is a risk that the demand for those of our products that have a relatively high average sales price in relation to the price of a desktop or notebook PC will decline. If we do not successfully innovate and market products designed for notebook PCs and other mobile devices, or if general consumer demand for peripherals for use with notebook PCs and mobile devices does not increase, our business and results of operations could be significantly harmed. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The personal peripherals and video conferencing industries are intensely competitive. The personal peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets, and price sensitivity in the OEM market. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands, in response to declining consumer demand in both the retail and OEM markets. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions which may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. The video conferencing industry is characterized by continual performance enhancements and increasing consolidation. There is heightened interest in the video conferencing market by large, well-financed competitors, such as Cisco Systems, Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company, and as a result, we expect competition in the industry to further intensify. In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell, and entered new markets, such as the market for enterprise video conferencing. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories, as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Hewlett-Packard, Polycom, Inc., Tandberg ASA and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Microsoft is a leading producer of operating systems and applications with which our mice, keyboards and webcams are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft may be able to improve the functionality of its own peripherals to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and may be financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share. 25 Pointing Devices, Keyboards and Desktops. Microsoft is our main competitor in the mice, keyboard and desktop product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless mice and desktops from less-established brands, including house brands, which has impacted our market share in some sales geographies and which could potentially further impact our market share. The notebook peripheral category is also an area where we face aggressive pricing and promotions, as well as new competitors that have broader notebook product offerings than we do. Video. Our competitors for PC Web cameras include Microsoft, Creative Labs, Royal Philips Electronics NV and Hewlett-Packard. We are encountering aggressive pricing practices and promotions on a worldwide basis, which have impacted our revenues and margins. The worldwide market for PC webcams has been very competitive, and as a result, pricing practices and promotions by our competitors have become more aggressive. Audio. Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. In the PC, mobile entertainment and communication platform speaker business, competitors include Plantronics, Inc., Altec Lansing LLC, Creative Labs, and Bose Corporation. In the PC headset and microphone business, our main competitors include Plantronics and Altec Lansing. We have expanded our audio product portfolio to include network-based audio systems for digital music, an emerging market with several small competitors as well as larger established consumer electronics companies, like Sony and Philips. Gaming. Competitors for our interactive entertainment products include Intec, Razer USA Ltd., Performance Designed Products, LLC (Pelican Accessories), Mad Catz Interactive, Inc., and its Saitek brand. Our controllers for PlayStation also compete against controllers offered by Sony. Remotes. Our competitors for remotes include, among others, Philips, Universal Remote Control, Inc., Universal Electronics Inc., RCA and Sony. We expect that the growth in recent years in consumer demand for personal peripheral devices for home entertainment systems will likely result in increased competition. Video Conferencing. Our primary competitors in the enterprise video conferencing market are Tandberg and Polycom. These companies have longer experience and a larger customer installed base than LifeSize. Cisco and Hewlett-Packard also compete with us for sales of higher-end systems. Cisco and Hewlett-Packard have substantially greater financial, sales and marketing, and engineering resources than we do. In addition, there are a number of smaller competitors which compete with LifeSize, along with Tandberg, Polycom, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard, for new accounts, OEM relationships, and installations. We also expect Cisco’s recent purchase of Tandberg to further intensify competition. Cisco is a leading producer of networking, switching and other telecommunications infrastructure products and end-points, such as phones, that are frequently used within enterprises. The growth of our LifeSize division depends in part on our ability to increase sales to enterprises with installed bases of Cisco and Tandberg equipment, and to enterprises that may purchase their equipment in the future. We believe the ability of our LifeSize products to interoperate with Cisco and Tandberg equipment, and with the equipment of other telecommunications, video conferencing or telepresence equipment suppliers, to be a key factor in purchasing decisions by current or prospective LifeSize customers. Cisco and Tandberg may be able to improve the functionality of their own videoconferencing equipment to correspond with ongoing enhancements to Cisco’s networking, switching and other telecommunications equipment before we are able to make such improvements, or may restrict the interoperability of their products with ours. This could significantly harm the sales of our LifeSize division. As a result, the growth of our LifeSize division, and the growth of Logitech as a whole, could be significantly harmed. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margin could decrease, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. 26 If we do not accurately forecast product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our retail products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. Over the past few years, we have expanded the number and types of products we sell, and the geographic markets in which we sell them, and we will endeavor to further expand our product portfolio and sales reach. The growth of our product portfolio and our sales markets has increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products and expect differences to arise in the future. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Our gross margins can vary due to consumer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, geographic sales mix, foreign currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new products in a timely manner at the product cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our products is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. For example, in the second half of fiscal year 2009 and the first half of fiscal year 2010, economic uncertainty caused our customers to reduce purchases of our products below what we had forecasted, and also led us to increase our customer incentives to stimulate demand, which significantly lowered our overall gross margin in those periods. In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our business depends in part on access to third-party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our product portfolio includes products designed for use with third-party platforms, such as Apple iPod, Microsoft Xbox, Sony PlayStation, and Nintendo Wii. Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, which can be withdrawn, denied or not be available on terms acceptable to us. 27 Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins, or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third-party platforms or technologies used to interact with our product portfolio can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that country. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China. Our manufacturing operations in Suzhou, China could be severely impacted by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, by strains on China’s transportation, communications, trade, public health and other infrastructures, by conflicts, embargoes, disagreements or increased tensions between China and Taiwan, by labor unrest, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the Chinese renminbi (“CNY”), the local currency of China. Significant future appreciation of the CNY could increase our component and other raw material costs, as well as our labor costs, and could adversely affect our financial results. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers, optical sensors and LifeSize hardware products, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business as a result of adverse global economic conditions, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, we may have insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand and we could lose sales, or we may experience a build-up in inventory. 28 A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last weeks of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely impact our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. We conduct operations in a number of countries and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. We conduct operations in a number of countries. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental and tax laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; exposure to political and financial instability, leading to currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; difficulties or increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, particularly in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia; changes in value-added tax (“VAT”) or VAT reimbursement; imposition of currency exchange controls; and delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be granted. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 29 Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, and entering new markets, such as the market for enterprise video conferencing. We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets. As we do so, we face an increased risk that claims that we infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit of the claims, may increase in number and significance. Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap. This risk is heightened by the increase in lawsuits brought by holders of patents that do not have an operating business. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. A successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. Our effective income tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in management’s assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. We are currently subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our profitability. If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 