ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. Please also see "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page 27. If we are unable to obtain future orders for our vehicles, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected and our business may fail. Substantially all of our revenue comes from our U.S. government contracts either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to another prime contractor to the U.S. government. We received and fulfilled substantial vehicle orders from the U.S. military under the MRAP program, which accounted for substantially all of the increase in our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2008. These orders have resulted, in significant part, from the particular combat situations encountered by the U.S. military in Iraq and Afghanistan, especially the use of IEDs by enemy combatants. We cannot be certain, therefore, to what degree the U.S. military will continue placing orders, and these orders may decrease significantly or cease. The main uncertainty about our future operations is whether we will continue to receive additional orders or contracts for our vehicles or our survivability solutions. We have no further substantial MRAP vehicle orders to fulfill at this time. Orders for our Cougar variant vehicles will allow us to continue production through the second quarter of 2009 and for our Buffalo vehicles to extend production until the fourth quarter of 2009. It is impossible to predict with certainty whether such future orders or contracts will be placed by existing or new customers. If we do not receive future orders or contracts for production beyond such dates, it is unlikely that our vehicle business will continue and our business 28 Table of Contents will be materially affected. Even if we are successful in obtaining contracts, the length of the contract cycle, from testing, pre-production to the delivery of the order when revenue is recognized, may span several months to years. The longer the contract cycle, the greater the opportunity for the customer to cancel the order before we receive payment. Our largest contract in 2008, in terms of value, was awarded to us by the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence under the FMS program. The FMS UK Contract is for 198 Cougar Mastiffs, a Cougar 6x6 variant, six 4x4 Cougars, and 151 Cougar Ridgbacks, a Cougar 4x4 variant. The FMS UK Contract is administered by the Marine Corps Systems Command and is subject to price definitization. Our largest contract in 2007, in terms of value, was awarded to us in January 2007 by the U.S. Marine Corps under the MRAP program competitive bidding process. The MRAP Competitive Contract is an ID/IQ contract that allows the U.S. government to order a maximum of 4,100 Cougar vehicles per year for a five-year period. However, the U.S. government is not required to issue any vehicle orders under the MRAP Competitive Contract, and existing orders can be terminated at the convenience of the government before completion. We fulfill the MRAP Competitive Contract with GDLS through the GDLS Subcontract. Our largest contract in 2006, in terms of value, was awarded to us on a sole source basis in November 2006 by the U.S. Marine Corps under the MRAP Program (the "MRAP Sole-Source Contract"). The MRAP Sole-Source Contract was for our Cougar and Buffalo vehicles and was substantially performed in 2007. We rely on sales to the U.S. government, and a failure to obtain new contracts or a reduction of sales under existing contracts with the U.S. government could adversely affect our operating performance and our ability to generate cash flow to fund our operations. The continuation and renewal of contracts with the U.S. government are contingent upon the availability of governmental funding, which may be unpredictable. Presently, we derive substantially all of our revenue from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government and its agencies, primarily the DoD. We expect that U.S. government contracts, particularly with the DoD, will continue to be our primary source of revenue for the foreseeable future. The continuation and renewal of our existing government contracts and new government contracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate funding for various U.S. government agencies, including the DoD. Changes in U.S. government spending could directly affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. The loss or significant reduction in government funding of a large program in which we participate could also result in a material decrease to our future sales, earnings and cash flows. U.S. government contracts are also conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the amount of necessary spending. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Among the factors that could impact U.S. government spending and reduce our federal government contracting business include: •A significant decline in, or reapportioning of, spending by the U.S. government, in general, or by the DoD; •Recent constraints on the U.S. budget as a result of the macroeconomic crisis and the federal deficit; •Changes, delays or cancellations of U.S. government programs, requirements or policies; 29 Table of Contents •The adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies that provide services to the U.S. government; •U.S. government shutdowns or other delays in the government appropriations process; •Curtailment of the U.S. government's outsourcing of services to private contractors; •Changes in the political climate, including with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; and •General economic conditions, including a slowdown in the economy or unstable economic conditions in the United States or in the countries in which we operate. These or other factors could cause U.S. government agencies to reduce their purchases under our contracts, to exercise their right to terminate our contracts in whole or in part, to issue temporary stop-work orders, or decline to exercise options to renew, our contracts. The loss or significant curtailment of our material government contracts, or our failure to renew existing contracts or enter into new contracts could adversely affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. Our business may be adversely affected by the severe and rapid downturn in the economy. Recently, there has been a severe and rapid downturn in the economy due to a variety of financial conditions, including the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions could have an adverse impact on the automotive industry, particularly automotive suppliers and steel manufacturers. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the effects of these conditions on our business. These conditions make it difficult for our vendors and us to accurately forecast, plan and execute certain future business activities. If these conditions affect the ability of our vendors and subcontractors to perform, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, due to the recent credit crisis and volatility of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in the second half of 2008, our products may become more expensive for customers whose purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars, which may further disadvantage us relative to our competitors or negatively impact our margins. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which have in the past and in the future could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately or on a timely basis. We concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. As discussed in Controls and Procedures in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, in part because of these material weaknesses, we also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance 30 Table of Contents regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in additional restatements. Moreover, other material weaknesses may be identified. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves, we may be unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. Any such failure in the future could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder and periodic management evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and Nasdaq, including a delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, securities litigation, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our common stock. We also have substantial work remaining to remedy the identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures and this work will continue during 2009. There can be no assurance as to when all of the material weaknesses will be remedied. Until our remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, and we will continue to incur expenses associated with the additional procedures and resources required to prepare our financial statements and to remediate these weaknesses. Certain of our remedial actions will be ongoing and will result in our incurring substantial additional costs even after our material weaknesses are remedied. In addition, there can be no assurance that, as a result of these remediation efforts or otherwise, we will not identify other inaccuracies in either our previous or future financial statements that will require amendments and restatements to those financial statements, which also could have a material adverse effect on us and on the price of our common stock. Although we have taken steps to correct our material weaknesses, we may still be subject to risks. For a more detailed discussion of our material weaknesses, see Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have started the manufacture and production of certain of our products for which we have no orders. If we do not receive orders for those products, we may incur losses. At times, if we believe that there is a probability of selling certain of our vehicles or products, we may commence the manufacture and production of such items without orders. Presently, we are in the process of procuring materials and fabricating approximately 50 Cheetah vehicles in our production facility and in subcontractors' facilities in anticipation of receiving future orders. In the event that we do not receive such orders, we may have excess inventory and incur losses, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Moreover, we are seeking to sell our Cheetah vehicles to the U.S. military and our future results of operations will depend to a large degree on our ability to sell significant quantities of Cheetah vehicles. Because we have commenced the manufacture and production of our Cheetah vehicles, we have incurred expenses for components, raw material, and other expenses without any orders from customers to purchase the vehicles we manufacture. We may experience difficulties, expenses and delays in starting up production, as we have no prior experience in manufacturing the Cheetah vehicle in commercial quantities and it may take a substantial period of time for us and our employees to achieve requisite efficiencies in producing the Cheetah. To the extent that we do not receive orders for 31 Table of Contents the Cheetah in significant quantities, or if we incur delays or unforeseen expenses in connection with outfitting and equipping this facility, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. If these events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, if we are not able to sell the Cheetah in significant quantities or at all, we may not be able to sustain the growth of our business, our net sales may decline and our business may be materially adversely affected. Many of the orders for our vehicles are subject to the competitive bidding process, which may cause us to incur substantial costs that we may not be able to recoup. We have received contract awards through the competitive bidding process, including the MRAP Competitive Contract, and may continue to do so in the future. The competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: •We may expend substantial funds, managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win; •We may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to service any contract we win, which could result in substantial cost overruns; and •We may encounter expenses and delays if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in a requirement to resubmit bids on modified specifications or in the termination, reduction or modification of any awarded contract. In 2008, we restated our condensed consolidated financial statements and other financial information for the periods ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007 and filed separate amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to reflect the restated condensed consolidated financial statements for such periods. Continued amendments and restatements to our financial statements may result in potential and current shareholders losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. In addition to the restatement of our financial statements for the quarterly periods in 2007, we previously amended our consolidated financial statements and certain other financial information appearing in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and restated our consolidated financial statements and certain other financial information appearing in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. Continued and repeated restatements and amendments to our consolidated financial statements and periodic reports may cause shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, and such loss of confidence could cause the trading price of our stock to become volatile or to decrease. We are subject to and may continue to be subject to lawsuits alleging false or misleading public statements and/or omissions concerning our business, internal controls and financial results. We are aware that at least ten shareholder class action lawsuits have been initiated seeking damages to recompense those who purchased or otherwise acquired our securities between August 14, 2006, and February 29, 2008, because of a loss in the trading value of our stock. The allegations include, but are not limited to, allegations that certain former and current members of management and the board of directors violated the Exchange Act and made false or misleading public statements or omissions concerning our business, internal controls, and financial results. Shareholders have filed at least seven derivative lawsuits against former and current officers and board members seeking damages 32 Table of Contents and other relief; and we have been the subject of other suits, described in more detail in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, stemming from weaknesses in our control over financial reporting or from our managerial and compliance processes. It is possible that other litigants may institute additional lawsuits against us as a result of these deficiencies seeking the payment of damages. These lawsuits are likely to be costly to defend and could involve the substantial diversion of management time and resources and have other adverse effects, and we may be required to make substantial payments to settle any such lawsuits or to satisfy any judgments that may be rendered against us. Our rapid growth placed a great strain on the managerial and compliance processes in place at that time; that, along with the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, has subjected the Company to increased risk of regulatory enforcement proceedings and private litigation. Our business may be materially affected if we are unable to anticipate the demand for and develop acceptable next generation vehicles and other survivability solutions to meet the demands of our customers, or if we are unable to sell next generation vehicles or other survivability solutions in the quantities that we anticipate. The future of our business depends on our ability to anticipate threats to the survivability of friendly forces and to develop, test, and be able to produce solutions to counter these threats in a manner that satisfies the cost, performance, and schedule demands of our customers. To the extent that our customers seek additional survivability solutions, we expect to face substantial competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do, in competing for these orders. Accordingly, if we are unable to develop and design acceptable vehicles and solutions in time to meet the demands of our customers, our net sales may decline in the future. Additionally, if we are unable to sell the next generation of vehicles in the quantities that we anticipate, our inventory and prior capital investments may not be fully utilized and our business may be materially affected. Our configuration management process for our fielded fleet is still immature and may result in inadequate delivery of service and repair parts and may decrease our ability to generate life cycle revenue, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. As a result of the rapid deployment and demand required by the U.S. military in Iraq and Afghanistan, we have not been able to thoroughly establish our service parts documentation and configuration control; and at times this process is immature and weak. As a result, we may not be above to adequately handle some aftermarket part orders, such as spare parts, and training and field service support, and we could be late or delayed in accepting and delivering aftermarket orders. We are still implementing our service documentation processes and delivery methodologies which could result in increased service costs and a loss of service revenue. The DCAA has issued audit reports that have been highly critical of our accounting and price estimating systems, and have questioned our ability to track and report our government contract costs appropriately. As a result, the DCAA could question or disallow our proposed costs under some of our government contracts, and our profits may be adversely affected. In addition, other governmental agencies may audit or issue reports about the status of our contracts. U.S. government agencies, generally through the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors' administrative processes and systems. The audits may review the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. The auditor may also review our compliance with applicable laws, government regulations, policies and standards as they relate to cost issues and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies. An adverse finding under a DCAA audit could result in the disallowance of our costs under a U.S. 33 Table of Contents government contract, termination of U.S. government contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, responding to governmental audits may involve significant expense and divert management attention. Moreover, if any of our administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with the applicable requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny or required to obtain additional governmental approvals that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome to an audit by the DCAA or another government agency, could materially adversely affect our competitive position, effect our ability to obtain the maximum price for our products and services, and result in a substantial reduction of our revenues. The DCAA issued at least 15 audit reports on our operations and contracts from May of 2004 through February 2009. Certain of these reports have generally been highly critical of the areas covered by the audits, including our job cost accounting and price estimating systems. As a result, the DCAA could question or disallow our proposed costs under some of our government contracts, and our profits may be adversely affected. In addition, other governmental agencies may audit or issue reports about the status of our contracts. Presently, all of our contracts are on a fixed-price basis, which could subject us to losses if there are cost overruns. Under a fixed-price contract, we receive only the amount indicated in the contract, regardless of the actual cost to produce the goods. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from potential cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. If the initial estimates that we use to calculate the contract price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. This risk is enhanced because of the deficiencies in our accounting systems described above. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, scheduling, and performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then our cost to perform the work could increase or our price could be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We may incur losses on fixed-price contracts that we had expected to be profitable, or such contracts may be less profitable than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the "definitization" of our contracts if we are unable to reserve adequately for payments on these contracts and if we do not maintain accounting systems effective enough to capture all costs incurred under these contracts. Many of the contracts we have previously received from the U.S. military have been sole source with a "not to exceed" amount. This type of contract is subject to "definitization," meaning that the contract price is not agreed upon at contract inception. Instead, following award of the contract, we and the U.S. government seek to agree upon a contract price based upon our cost of performing the contract. During the definitization process, we are required to perform the contract work, make deliveries and receive payments from the U.S. military before the final contract price has been established. For this reason, as part of the original award, we provide a NTE price to be used for invoicing and accounting purposes pending definitization. As a result, at the completion of the contract, we may have received overpayments during the course of the contract and will be required to return any overpayments to the U.S. military. 34 Table of Contents As result of the potential adjustments related to the definitization process, we maintain a separate account for payments received for contracts that may be subject to definitization. The definitization process can be time-consuming and completion can take extensive periods of time. Although we work diligently with our customers to proceed with significant work when we have a fully definitized task order, we cannot assure you that there will not be withholdings on future task orders. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the actual prices we receive under contracts subject to definitization will not be substantially less than our estimates, which would adversely affect our operating results and could result in losses. At the end of 2007, we had definitized all outstanding contracts. However, as of December 31, 2008, we had nine delivery orders that were still subject to the definitization process and may continue to be subject to the definitization process. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture or perform some of the assembly of our vehicles and the loss of any critical subcontractors could delay our manufacturing operations, which could affect our ability to meet our contract delivery requirements to our customers; in addition subcontractors may attempt to increase the amounts they charge us, adversely affecting our operating results. Some of the major work processes performed in our vehicle manufacturing are done by subcontractors. For example, a portion of the capsules of our Cougars are shipped to Spartan Chassis, Inc. ("Spartan") in Charlotte, Michigan, which supplies and installs the engine, transmission, transfer case, drive shafts, differentials, axle assemblies, tires, fuel tank, steering, and associated mechanical and electrical hardware. Additionally, under our GDLS Subcontract, GDLS and Spartan (as a subcontractor to GDLS) perform the final assembly of a portion of these vehicles (windows, doors, external appurtenances, hatches, seats, fenders, lights, paint, and other final assembly hardware). If these, or any other critical subcontractor, cease doing business with us (whether voluntarily or due to other events), we would be required to locate a substitute subcontractor or perform the work ourselves. Further, any inability of these subcontractors to perform these services in a timely manner may result in a delay in deliveries to our customers. The amounts we pay to some of these subcontractors represent a very significant portion of the overall costs of our Cougar vehicles. However, certain of our subcontractors have not entered into subcontracts with us to provide these services, although in some cases we do have purchase orders covering basic terms such as price or quantities but other terms and conditions have yet to be agreed upon. This means that we may have issues regarding some terms and conditions, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Changes in the pace of operations in Iraq or Afghanistan or the duration of involvement by the U.S. military and foreign militaries in areas of conflict could have an impact on contracts for our spare parts and sustainment services. Any changes in the pace of operations in theater or the length of the duration of the U.S. military and foreign military involvement in areas of conflict will have a direct impact on the usage of our vehicles and products, and subsequently the support required to sustain these vehicles. Political pressure, the success of the current operations, changes in tactics of the insurgency, and other factors make it difficult to ascertain the required sustaining services our customers will require from Force Protection. Additionally, the United States recently elected a new President and other government legislators. The economic, defense spending and taxing policies of the new government may have an adverse impact on our future business, prospects and results of operations. Until the new legislative agenda is finalized and enacted, it is not possible to determine the impact of such changes, if any. 35 Table of Contents We may require additional capital to provide for our working capital needs. We may require substantial additional capital to provide for our working capital and other cash needs. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources, contained elsewhere herein. We may seek to obtain this additional capital through, among other things, borrowings or the issuance of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. Presently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, such events may have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain additional capital. Any inability to obtain additional capital as and when required could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. We currently have a $40 million credit facility with Wachovia Bank that expires on April 30, 2010, that provides us with the ability to obtain capital if cash available from other sources is insufficient to meet our needs. The current global financial crisis could adversely affect our ability to access the funds available under this credit facility. In the event that we are not able to renew this credit facility or obtain another credit facility, we will not have the ability to make revolving credit borrowings to finance our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. To date, we have not borrowed any funds under this credit facility. Borrowings under our existing credit facility bear interest at variable rates, and borrowings we incur in the future may also bear interest at variable rates, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates. In addition, our existing credit facility is secured by an interest in all of our personal property and fixtures, and any debt instruments we enter into in the future may also be secured by our assets, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional debt financing. We may experience supply interruptions for certain components used in the manufacture and sustainment of our products, which could cause delays in production, product deliveries and the sustainment of our vehicles. In the event that we are unable to obtain required components from our existing suppliers, and if we are unable to mitigate the impact or find an alternate supplier in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our vehicles and provide sustainment. Significant interruptions in the supply of components may occur for a variety of reasons, including capacity constraints at our suppliers, competition for components with other manufacturers of vehicles, insolvency of a supplier, work stoppages at suppliers and transportation interruptions, which could involve significant additional costs and result in delays in production, product deliveries and sustainment and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the unavailability or scarcity of certain components or raw material could result in increased costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the economic distress of suppliers, particularly suppliers in the automotive industry, due to the current economic climate may in the future require us to provide financial support or take other measures to ensure our receipt of components or materials. We may experience commodity cost pressures and the effects of overcapacity in the automobile industry. These factors have also increased pressure on the industry's supply base, as suppliers cope with higher commodity costs, lower production volumes and other challenges. As a result, suppliers may be less able to absorb commodity cost increases or to achieve productivity improvements, and, therefore, less willing to reduce prices to us. 36 Table of Contents Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we were to lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to recruit qualified managers and key personnel in the future. Moreover, a number of our officers and other key employees have joined our Company recently, and therefore have only limited experience with our business. Our success depends on the continued service of our management team and certain key personnel in our engineering department. If one or more of these individuals were unable to continue working due to health reasons, or were to resign or otherwise terminate their employment with us, we could experience a loss of sales, delays in new product development and diversion of management resources, and we may have difficulty replacing any of these individuals. We do not have key person insurance on any of our executive employees. Competition for qualified managers and key personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain such personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing managers and employees or hire and integrate new personnel, we may experience operating inefficiencies, production delays and reduced profitability or losses. In addition, a number of our officers and key employees have joined our company recently, and therefore have limited experience with our business, personnel, and administrative systems. The ability of new management to articulate and implement their strategic vision, and to integrate effectively into our business, personnel, and administrative systems, is critical to our success. Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated or adversely modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. Congress funds the vast majority of the federal budget on an annual basis, and Congress often does not provide agencies with all the money requested in their budget. Many of our contracts cover multiple years and, as such, are not fully funded at contract award. If Congress or one of our agency customers chooses to spend money on other programs, our contracts may be terminated. Federal laws, collectively called the Anti-Deficiency Act, prohibit involving the government in any obligation to pay money before funds have been appropriated for that purpose, unless otherwise allowed by law. Therefore, the Anti-Deficiency Act indirectly regulates how the agencies award our contracts and pays our invoices. Federal government contracts generally contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that provide the federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the federal government to, among other provisions: terminate our existing contracts for convenience; unilaterally modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; subject the award to protest or challenge by competitors; suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related delivery orders; and claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. The federal government may terminate a contract with us either "for convenience" (for instance, due to a change in its perceived needs) or if we default due to our failure or the failure of a workshare partner or subcontractor to perform under the contract. If the federal government terminates a contract with us for convenience, we generally would be entitled to recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. However, under certain circumstances, our recovery costs upon termination for convenience of such a contract may be limited. If the federal government terminates a contract with us based upon our default, we generally would be denied any recovery for undelivered work, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the federal government in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced and continue to experience occasional performance issues under some of our contracts. We have in the past received and may in the future receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the federal government's 37 Table of Contents satisfaction, could give the government the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under those contracts. U.S. government contracts and subcontracts typically involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, extensive specification development, price negotiations and milestone requirements. In addition, the proposed transition in the United States to fund military and defense operations from emergency supplemental spending bills to the regular defense budget may have unknown consequences on military spending. Each U.S. government agency often also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Our backlog is subject to uncertainties, and we may not sell or receive payment for all of the vehicles we have included in backlog, which would reduce our revenue in future periods. Our backlog reflects the number of vehicles for which we have received orders, but have not yet delivered, as of a specified date. Our backlog is subject to uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we will deliver or receive payment for the vehicles we have included in our backlog. As a result, there is no certainty about our future revenues because the timing of any of these vehicles sales and revenues is subject to various contingencies, such as production difficulties, raw material shortages and quality acceptance. If we fail to sell vehicles included in our backlog, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We must comply with numerous miscellaneous federal national security laws, regulations, and procedures, as well as the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our clients and impose added costs on our business. For example, the FAR and the industrial security regulations of the DoD and related laws include provisions that: •Allow our federal government clients to terminate or not renew our contracts if we come under foreign ownership, control or influence; •Require us to prevent unauthorized access to classified information; and •Require us to comply with laws and regulations intended to promote various social or economic goals. We are subject to industrial security regulations of the DoD and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners' access to classified information. As we expand our operations internationally, we will also become subject to the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, we could lose our facility security clearances, which could result in our federal government customers terminating or deciding not to renew our contracts, and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or procedures, including federal regulations regarding the protection of classified information, could result in contract termination, loss of security clearances, suspension or prohibition from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which would materially adversely affect our business. 38 Table of Contents If we do not receive additional orders, we may have excess manufacturing capacity. If demand for our vehicles declines, we may have additional inefficient or under-utilized capacity, and our gross margins and cash flows may suffer and we may incur losses. In response to the increased demand for our blast- and ballistic-protected vehicles, we added significant manufacturing capacity during each of the past several years. Demand for our vehicles may not remain at levels sufficient to utilize our present manufacturing capacity. Much of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment are special purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. If the demand for mine-protected vehicles does not increase or declines substantially from current levels, we may have significant under-utilized capacity. Therefore, a substantial decline in demand for our blast- and ballistic-protected vehicles could result in significant additional excess manufacturing capacity, which would adversely affect our results of operations and could result in losses. We are currently under directives to improve our compliance policies and procedures concerning activity regulated by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. In December 2007, we submitted a voluntary disclosure to the DDTC regarding the shipment of technical manuals, Cheetah spare parts, armored vest plates, parts not listed on our license and transfers of technical data to and by our vendors without proper authorization or identification of the appropriate exemption. In January, 2008, the DDTC requested additional information and documentation for each specific shipment of these items within sixty days. In addition, the DDTC directed us to undertake certain specific measures, including, but not limited to, that we hire a full time senior export control compliance officer, implement certain procedures, conduct comprehensive ITAR training, immediately conduct a comprehensive export compliance audit, and institute a plan to conduct periodic audits of the export compliance program. On February 11, 2008, we provided DDTC with the job description for the Director of Export Controls, draft Export Controls Manual, ITAR presentation provided in new orientation training and the attendance logs for annual ITAR training provided to executives and other employees having ITAR responsibilities. On March 11, 2008, we provided DDTC with our draft audit plan and on June 2, 2008, we provided the final audit report. On July 14, 2008, we provided DDTC with supplemental information to our previous voluntary disclosure and other information identified in the audit. We have developed and implemented an Export Control Policies and Procedures Manual and ITAR Product Classification Guide, established an Export Control Council, and revised our Technology Control Plan and Code of Conduct and Ethics. As a result of the export compliance audit, we have identified additional unauthorized transfers internally at our facility and in support of U.S. operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as issues associated with the execution of our licenses and agreements. We have reported these matters to DDTC. On October 27, 2008, we received a letter from the DDTC advising that, following our voluntary disclosure, this matter has been closed without taking any civil penalties, but reserving the right to reopen if circumstances warrant. We have also identified additional export compliance matters that may warrant disclosure to DDTC. Although we are in the process of addressing these measures, we cannot assure you that we will be able to correct the weakness in our compliance program. Compliance with the directives of the DDTC may result in substantial expenses and diversion of management. Any failure to adequately address the directives of DDTC could result civil fines or suspension or loss of our export privileges, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 39 Table of Contents We are now a large business under applicable U.S. government regulations and may be precluded from being awarded new contracts with the U.S. government unless our accounting and estimating systems are improved sufficiently to meet government standards. In order to enter into certain contracts with the U.S. military, a contractor's accounting and estimating systems must generally meet the standards established by the FAR, and, with regard to certain types of contracts, CAS. Compliance is usually reviewed by the DCAA, an arm of the DoD. Contractors who do not meet these standards generally are not eligible to win certain new contracts from the U.S. government. Because we previously were a small business within the meaning of applicable federal regulations, we were not required to comply with the accounting and estimating requirements in order to enter into contracts with the U.S. military. However, as a result of the growth of our business, as of November 14, 2007, we are no longer considered a small business and we therefore are required to meet these additional accounting and estimating standards to the extent that they apply to new contracts that we are awarded after November 14, 2007. We have been advised by the DCAA that our accounting and estimating systems do not meet these requirements and, although we have been seeking to improve these systems, we have extensive work remaining in order to meet these standards. There can be no assurance as to when we will be able to meet these standards and, until we are able to do so, we may not be eligible for new contract awards by the U.S. military. Accordingly, any failure to meet these standards will likely have a material adverse effect on our business. In that regard, we continue to enhance our accounting system; however, there is some uncertainty as to whether our system will be capable of generating the data necessary to comply with these standards. If our accounting system is inadequate for these purposes, we could incur substantial delays and additional expenses through efforts to remedy those deficiencies or acquire and implement a new accounting system. CAS requires us to maintain detailed accounting records. Given the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and other deficiencies in our accounting system described below under Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in complying with CAS. CAS is designed to achieve uniformity and consistency in the measurement, assignment, and allocation of costs to U.S. government contracts. CAS-covered contractors must complete a disclosure statement, which is a written description of the contractor's cost accounting practices and procedures. The purpose of the disclosure statement is to determine whether the contractor's cost accounting practices and procedures are consistently applied and whether they comply with CAS provisions. If the contractor fails to comply with CAS provisions, the U.S. government may withhold up to ten percent of each payment due until the necessary corrections are made. If a contractor fails to provide accurate information, under certain circumstances, the U.S. government can make unilateral adjustments. Additionally, DCAA may require more frequent updates if audits reveal non-compliant CAS submissions and accounting. We submitted a CAS disclosure statement to DCAA on May 19, 2008, with an effective date of June 1, 2008. On November 11, 2008, we received an audit report that stated that our submission did not adequately describe our accounting systems. We are in the process of updating our disclosure statement. To the extent that CAS requirements apply to future contracts awarded to us, we will be required to satisfy more difficult U.S. government accounting requirements than have previously applied, and a failure by us to comply with these new requirements may have consequences that would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct 40 Table of Contents business with our federal government contracts. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs, and non-compliance may also allow for the assignment of additional fines and penalties, including contractual damages. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following: •The Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts; •The Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain negotiated contracts; •The Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; and •Laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data. We engage in international work falling under the jurisdiction of U.S. export control laws. Failure to comply with these control regimes can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Our contracting agency customers periodically review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts, and we may be required to disclose certain types of alleged misconduct with regard to our federal government contracts. If a government review or investigation or Company disclosure results in a finding of improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including •Termination of contracts; •Forfeiture of profits; •Cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses; •Suspension of payments; •Fines; and •Suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Additionally, the civil False Claims Act provides for potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government (who may then share a portion of any recovery). If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be materially harmed. The government may also revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, at any time. Any new contracting methods could be costly to satisfy, administratively difficult for us to implement and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. 41 Table of Contents We are presently subject to a number of legal proceedings and claims and we may become subject to additional legal proceedings and claims in the future. We have been named in several purported class actions brought by shareholders who purchased or otherwise acquired our securities between 2006 and 2008, alleging violations of the Exchange Act, and making false and misleading public statements and/or omissions. Other shareholders have named us and certain current and former officers and directors in derivative suits alleging breaches of fiduciary duties. We have also been subject to a variety of other lawsuits, including claims involving the use of our confidential information and trade secrets, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission claims, contractual claims, claims related to our common shares, OSHA claims and claims by the Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls ("DDTC"). Litigation and regulatory inquiries of these types are often expensive and time consuming and their outcome is uncertain. Such claims and regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. We may need to spend significant amounts on our legal defense, senior management may be required to divert their attention from other portions of our business, new product launches may be deferred or canceled as a result of any proceedings, and we may be required to make changes to our present and planned products or services. If, as a result of any proceedings, a settlement is reached, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation. We are also a party to other litigation which we consider routine and incidental to our business. We may be involved from time to time in other litigation that could have a material effect on our operations or finances. Other than the litigation described above, we are not aware of any pending or threatened litigation against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to adequately safeguard our intellectual property rights and trade secrets from unauthorized use, and we may become subject to claims that we infringe on others' intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and other intellectual property laws, licensing agreements, nondisclosure agreements with employees and customers and other protective measures to preserve our proprietary rights to our products and production processes. Our pending patent applications may not be granted by the various patent offices examining them. Even if our patent applications are granted and issued as patents, these measures afford only limited protection and may not preclude competitors from developing products or processes similar or superior to ours. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although we implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights, these efforts may not be successful. From time to time, we may litigate within the United States or abroad to enforce our issued or licensed patents, to protect our trade secrets and know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of others. For example, we were recently engaged in a lawsuit in which we alleged misappropriation of our intellectual property. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights could be expensive, requires management's attention and might not bring us timely or effective relief. We are party to two long-term intellectual property agreements pursuant to which we have the exclusive right to use certain intellectual property technology relating to blast- and ballistic-protected vehicles through 2011 and 2012, respectively. See Item 1, Business—Intellectual Property for a further 42 Table of Contents discussion of these agreements with CSIR and Mechem. In the event that the license agreements expire without renewal, CSIR and Mechem may permit other parties to use the licensed technology, including our competitors. The loss of these intellectual property rights may adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, third parties may assert that our products or processes infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Infringement claims against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources even if we ultimately prevail. A third party claiming infringement may also obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the distribution or sale of allegedly infringing products. Although we may seek licenses from third parties covering intellectual property that we are allegedly infringing, we may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. Our products are subject to export limitations and we may be prevented from shipping our products to certain nations or buyers. We are subject to federal licensing requirements with respect to the sale and support in foreign countries of certain of our products and the importation of components for our products. In addition, we are obligated to comply with a variety of federal, state and local regulations, both domestically and abroad, governing certain aspects of our international sales and support, including regulations promulgated by, among others, the U.S. Departments of Commerce, Defense and State and the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Such licenses may be denied for reasons of U.S. national security or foreign policy. In the case of certain large orders for exports of defense equipment, the Department of State must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. For products and technology exported from the U.S. or otherwise subject to U.S. jurisdiction, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to ITAR, EAR, or FMS, program and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by OFAC, U.S. Department of the Treasury. We have discovered shortcomings in our export compliance procedures. We are currently analyzing product shipments and technology transfers, working with U.S. government officials to ensure compliance with applicable U.S. export laws and regulations, and enhancing our export compliance system. We have made voluntary disclosures to the Department of State and provided additional documentation to the U.S. Department of State regarding compliance issues. The State Department personnel visited our facilities in December 2007 as part of the State Department company visit program for a further review of our export control policies and procedures, as well as their implementation. The voluntary disclosures that have been finally adjudicated by the U.S. Department of State did not result in any monetary fines or restrictions on exports. The U.S. Department of State recommended enhancements to our compliance program, some of which we have implemented and others which we are implementing. We are currently reviewing additional compliance information and will file voluntary disclosures if warranted. A determination by the U.S. government that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls or trade sanctions, as a consequence of the results of the directed disclosure or any other violations that may be determined, could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenues from certain customers, and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Any one or more of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents We are subject to the FCPA and other laws which prohibit improper payments to foreign governments and their officials by U.S. and other business entities. We operate in countries known to experience corruption. Our operations in such countries create the risk of an unauthorized payment by one of our employees or agents which would be in violation of various laws including the FCPA. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In that regard, we do not have a formal FCPA compliance program. Additionally, the failure to obtain applicable governmental approval and clearances could materially adversely affect our ability to continue to service the government contracts we maintain. Exports of some of our products to certain international destinations may require shipment authorization from U.S. export control authorities, including the U.S. Departments of Commerce and State, and authorizations may be conditioned on end-use restrictions. Failure to receive these authorizations may materially adversely affect our revenues and in turn our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our international business may pose greater risks than our domestic business due to the greater potential for changes in foreign economic and political environments. Our international business is also highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. Sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the U.S. and abroad) and U.S. foreign policy. Sales of our products and services internationally are subject to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of shares of blank check preferred stock. Under the terms of our articles of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without any need for approval by our shareholders but subject to any limitations prescribed by law, shares of our preferred stock in one or more series. Each series shall consist of such number of shares and have the rights, preferences, powers and restrictions, such as dividend rights and preferences, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation rights and preferences, as our board of directors shall determine. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. The board of directors may issue preferred stock with voting, conversion or other rights that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and that could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Our stock price has been volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility, and this trend may continue. For example, in the last quarter of fiscal year 2008, the price of our common stock ranged from $1.70 to $6.03. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting our market price include, but are not limited to, our failure to meet expectations regarding new orders or sales of our vehicles; differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; announcements of new contracts or orders by us or our competitors; and market reaction to any future acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors. Recent events have caused stock prices for many companies, including ours, to fluctuate in ways unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. The general economic, political and stock market conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control. The 44 Table of Contents continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial markets has had and may continue to have an impact on our stock price. The market price of our common stock at any particular time may not remain the market price in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Nevada Corporation Law, could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As discussed above, our board of directors is empowered to issue preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval. Any issuance of this "blank check" preferred stock could materially limit the rights of holders of the common stock and render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. In addition, our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain a number of provisions that could impede a takeover or change in control of us, including our staggered board, limitation on the ability of our shareholders to act by written consent, advance notice provisions and the ability for the board of directors to fill a vacancy on our board of directors. Certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law could also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by our board of directors or shareholders. These provisions relate to, among other things, the acquisition of a controlling interest in a Nevada corporation meeting certain requirements or certain business combinations and other transactions between a Nevada corporation and certain "interested stockholders." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 