Risk Factors" and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC, which are incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain historical information, forecasts and estimates regarding defense expenditures by the U.S. government, actual and anticipated procurement of armored vehicles and similar matters. This historical data and these forecasts and estimates have been obtained from publicly available information, industry publications, trade associations and data compiled by independent market research firms. However, we have not independently verified this information and we cannot assure you that it is accurate or that these forecasts and estimates will prove correct. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as specifically noted otherwise, the term "Force Protection, Inc." refers to Force Protection, Inc. only, and the terms "Company," "we," "our," "ours" and "us" refer to Force Protection, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. Please also see "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page 18. If we are unable to obtain future orders for our vehicles, products or services, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected and our business may fail. We cannot be certain of the degree to which military users will continue to place orders, and these orders may decrease significantly or cease. Also, political pressure, the success of the current operations, changes in tactics of the insurgency, and other factors make it difficult to ascertain customer requirements. The challenging economic environment and potential changes in defense spending may have an adverse impact on the number and volume of future orders placed for our products and services, which could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations. The main uncertainty about our future operations is whether we will continue to receive additional orders or contracts for our vehicles, products and services. Although we currently have a significant order for 200 Ocelot vehicles and certain orders for products and services going forward, it is impossible to predict with certainty whether such future orders or contracts will be replaced by existing or new customers. If we do not receive future orders or contracts for vehicle production, it is unlikely that our vehicle business will continue and our business will be materially affected. Even if we are successful in obtaining contracts, the length of the contract cycle, from testing, pre-production to the delivery of the order when revenue is recognized, may span several months to years. In addition, we derive a majority of our revenue from the U.S. government and its agencies, primarily the U.S. DoD, and the programs we serve are subject to funding by the U.S. government. The U.S. government has incurred and is expected to continue to incur record federal budget deficits, which may adversely affect the level of funding for certain programs. If the U.S. government significantly reduces funding for the programs we serve, as a result of the federal deficits or other macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions, we may have unexpected losses of revenue and our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to anticipate the demand for and develop solutions for the next generation vehicles, products or services our net sales may decline, our business may be adversely affected and we may be unable to meet the demands of our current and future customers. We must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies to grow our current and future markets. Our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. Our product development costs have been steadily increasing and a portion of our current resources will continue to be devoted to research and development. Our results from operations could be adversely affected if our research and development investments to develop products are less than expected. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. In addition, certain of our competitors have greater resources to devote to research and development, and we may not have sufficient resources to undertake the continuing research and development necessary to remain competitive. We cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. A failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. There can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover associated development costs. In addition, under U.S. and foreign government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. Our revenue growth may be constrained by our product concentration and lack of market diversification, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Continued market acceptance of our products is critical to our future success. As a result, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader and/or cheaper product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. In addition, our limited product lines may result in customers ordering competing products from competitors that offer additional products as well. We expect to grow our business by diversifying our product lines, by leveraging our technologies within our existing product lines and by expanding our international operations. Such diversification requires investments and resources which may not be available as needed and such activities may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of our attempts to diversify our product concentration and enter into new markets and thus, in meeting the needs of these new customers and competing favorably in these new markets. Our future prospects may be negatively affected if we are unable to diversify our product lines and decrease our product concentration. 20 Table of Contents The U.S. government may reform its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government or its agencies, we believe that the success and development of our business will depend on our continued successful participation in federal contracting programs. The current administration has indicated its intent to reform government procurement practices through a number of regulatory and procedural changes which, depending upon how they are implemented, could adversely affect our business. Specific changes and outcomes remain uncertain, but any ordered reform measures could potentially increase the costs of current contract fulfillment or impair the ability of the company to effectively compete for new contracts. We are expanding international operations, which subjects us to additional business risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Expanding international sales and operations is a part of our growth strategy. During 2010, our Ocelot vehicle was selected for the LPPV program, with 200 vehicles to be manufactured in the U.K. We are pursuing additional contracts internationally and many of these programs also require local manufacturing. International operations and sales are subject to various risks, including foreign currency, political, economic, trade barriers, foreign government regulations and taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries in connection with starting up international manufacturing operations that could cause a loss. Failure of performance could impact revenue and result in contract disputes. In addition, we are subject to export control regulations, including, without limitation, the U.S. Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We rely on joint ventures, teaming agreements, subcontractors and suppliers to manufacture or perform some of the assembly of our vehicles, supply products or provide services. The loss of any critical partner could delay our meeting contractual obligations, which could affect our ability to meet our contract delivery requirements. We outsource the manufacturing of some of our vehicles and products. If any of our selected partners, subcontractors or suppliers cease doing business with us or fail to perform, we would have to develop new sources or perform the work ourselves. In the event that we are unable to obtain required products or services from our existing partners, subcontractors or suppliers, and if we are unable to mitigate the impact or find alternate sources in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our vehicles and provide repairs and sustainment, and, as a result, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be affected. Our limited control over our joint ventures, partners and subcontractors may delay or prevent us from implementing our business strategy which may adversely affect our financial results. We are a party to various joint ventures, subcontracts, teaming agreements and joint development arrangements with several partners, some of which are competitors. We may also enter into additional arrangements in the future. Because we have shared control over our joint ventures and limited control over our partners and subcontractors, we may not be able to require them to take actions that we believe are necessary to implement our business strategy. If our partners or subcontractors fail to fulfill their obligations, we could be responsible to the customer and would have to rely on our ability to obtain reimbursement from our partner or subcontractor for our costs, over and above any reimbursement which may be due from the customer. Obtaining such reimbursement could require us to engage in litigation, and could take a substantial amount of management time and resources. If our partner or subcontractor becomes insolvent or ceases operations, we might not be able to obtain 21 Table of Contents reimbursement. Accordingly, this limited control could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We must comply with export control laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, numerous federal national security laws, regulations, and procedures, as well as the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business. We are subject to export and import licensing requirements with respect to the marketing and sales, testing, service and support in foreign countries of our vehicles, products and services. In addition, we are obligated to comply with a variety of federal, state and local regulations, both domestically and abroad, governing certain aspects of our international sales and support. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other laws which prohibit improper payments to foreign governments and their officials by U.S. and other business entities. Our operations in such countries create the risk of an unauthorized payment by one of our employees or agents which would be in violation of various laws including the FCPA. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts including the FAR and similar foreign government regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government and foreign governments. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs, and non-compliance may also result in fines and penalties. We are subject to industrial security regulations of the U.S. DoD and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners' access to classified information. As we continue to expand our operations internationally, we are subject to the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions. We may not effectively develop and manage our policies, procedures, processes or systems, which could materially harm our business. As our business continues to change, there may be a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources that diverts the attention of key personnel. We must continue to improve our operational and financial policies and systems and managerial controls and procedures, and we will need to continue to train and manage our technology and workforce. We must also maintain close coordination among our technology, compliance, quality, accounting, finance, marketing and sales organizations. Our continued maturing as a business may require an additional investment by us in technology, facilities, personnel, and financial and management systems, and policies and controls. It also will require expansion of our procedures for monitoring and assuring our compliance with applicable regulations. These factors could increase our need for internal audit and monitoring processes that might be more extensive and broader in scope than those we have historically required. If we fail to manage these additional elements successfully, we could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Many of our orders are subject to the competitive bidding process, which we may not win, and which could result in expenses that we are unable to recoup, and related losses. We have received contract awards through the competitive bidding process and may continue to do so in the future. However, the competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including bidding against large and established government contractors with substantially greater resources than we have. Competitive bidding also involves costs which may not be recouped, cost overruns, or awards subject to bid protest. Also, due to the commercial nature of many vehicle components, we compete with established commercial vehicle suppliers and component OEMs for spare part sales. As a result, if we are not successful in the bidding process, we may incur losses, which could adversely affect our business. 22 Table of Contents Our U.S. and foreign government contracts may be terminated or adversely modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. Government contracts generally contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, which provide the government with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the government to, among other provisions: terminate our existing contracts for convenience; unilaterally modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; subject the award to protest or challenge by competitors; suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related delivery orders; and claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. Given the ability of the government to unilaterally terminate a contract, we experience uncertainty and unpredictability with respect to the fulfillment of our orders, which makes it difficult to generate forecasts. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will deliver or receive payment for the vehicles we have included in our backlog or generate results in line with our forecasts. We are presently subject to a number of legal proceedings and claims and we may become subject to additional legal proceedings and claims in the future. We have been subject to shareholder class action and derivative lawsuits, including allegations that certain former members of management and the Board of Directors violated the Exchange Act and made false or misleading public statements or omissions concerning our business, internal controls, and financial results. It is possible that other litigants may institute additional lawsuits against us as a result of these alleged deficiencies seeking the payment of damages. We are subject to a variety of other lawsuits and claims, including complaints filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regulations related to our common shares, and other regulatory agencies. Such litigation, claims and regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of money for legal defense, human resources, and management time to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. If, as a result of any proceedings, a settlement is reached, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flow and harm our reputation. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may make acquisitions, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. In the future, we may enter into acquisitions in an effort to enhance shareholder value, and in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets or increase our market share. Acquisitions involve a certain amount of risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits. Such risks include: difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses' markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. In addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in acquisitions may divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Demand for our vehicles, products and services can vary throughout the year, which can result in excess and underutilized capacity, and our gross margins and cash flows may suffer and we may incur losses. As our manufacturing for mine-protected vehicles has decreased, we have had periods of time in which we have excess and underutilized manufacturing capacity. In addition, demand for our vehicles may not remain at levels sufficient to utilize our present manufacturing capacity. Much of our manufacturing facilities and production equipment are special purpose in nature and cannot be adapted easily to make other products. A substantial decline in demand for our blast- and ballistic-protected vehicles and related products could result in significant additional excess and underutilized manufacturing capacity, which could cause us to write off the value of our facilities and equipment, which could adversely affect our results of operations and could result in losses. U.S. government agencies, generally through the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), routinely audit and monitor government contracts and government contractors' administrative processes and systems, and compliance. Audits could question or disallow our proposed costs under some of our government contracts, and we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The DCAA continues to audit certain of our price proposals and indirect rate submissions as required by the FAR. The audits may review the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. As a result, the DCAA could question or disallow our proposed costs under some of our government contracts, and our profits may be adversely affected. The DCMA manages overall contractor performance and routinely audits and evaluates contractor performance in the areas of quality and overall contract performance. The audits may also review our compliance with applicable laws, government regulations, policies and standards as they relate to cost issues and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies. An adverse finding could result in the disallowance of our costs under a U.S. government contract. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, responding to governmental audits may involve significant expense and divert management attention. Similar risks exist with foreign governments that we deal with directly. Presently, all of our contracts are on a fixed-price basis, which could subject us to losses if there are cost overruns. Under a fixed-price contract, we receive only the amount indicated in the contract, regardless of the actual cost to produce the goods or provide the services. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from potential cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. Also, many of the contracts we receive from the U.S. military are sole source with a "not-to-exceed" amount and are subject to "definitization," meaning that the contract price is not agreed upon at contract inception. If the estimates we use to calculate the contract price are incorrect, the cost to perform the work proves to be greater than the price, or the definitized contract price is less than the cost, we could incur losses. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to schedule and performance, which may result in penalties for failure to perform. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the actual prices we receive under contracts will not be substantially less than our estimates or costs, which could adversely affect our cash flows, our operating results and could result in losses. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately safeguard our intellectual property rights and trade secrets from unauthorized use, and we may become subject to claims that we infringe on others' intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and other intellectual property laws, licensing agreements, nondisclosure agreements with employees, subcontractors, partners and suppliers and other protective measures to preserve our proprietary rights to our products and production processes. Our pending patent applications may not be granted by the various patent offices examining them. Even if our patent applications are granted and issued as patents, these measures afford only limited protection and may not preclude competitors from developing products or processes similar or superior to ours. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Furthermore, third parties may assert that our products or processes infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights could be expensive, require management's attention and might not bring us timely or effective relief. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and could be subject to tax in foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. In addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. Our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions of production that are beyond our control. Our business and financial results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate or that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies that could curtail production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries and canceled orders. In addition, we purchase components and raw materials and information technology and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions in our manufacturing and delivery performance. Such suppliers may not be able to quickly recover from such events, or may not be able to recover at all, which would subject us to additional delays and difficulty conducting our operations. We may require additional capital to provide for our working capital needs. We may require additional capital for our business needs. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources, contained elsewhere herein. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. The credit markets and the financial services industry continue to experience a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the federal government. In addition, current continued weak economic conditions and tight credit markets could become more severe or prolonged, government funding levels for military programs that we currently have under contract could decline significantly, military programs that we currently have under contract could be competed or changes could occur that alter our ability to effectively compete 25 Table of Contents in our markets. Should one or more of these events occur, conditions could arise which could limit our ability to generate sufficient cash flows or access borrowings to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, further limit our financial flexibility or impair our ability to obtain alternative financing. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we were to lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to recruit qualified managers and key personnel in the future. Our success depends on the continued service of our management team and certain key personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing managers and employees or hire and integrate new personnel, we may experience operating inefficiencies, production delays and reduced profitability or losses. Compliance with increasing environmental regulations and the effects of potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse financial effect on us. We, like other industry participants, are subject to various federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations. Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, noise, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of regulated materials, waste and remediation of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations in both the U.S. and abroad. We may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and regulatory standards in the future, particularly as climate change initiatives increase in focus. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate change matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of shares of blank check preferred stock. Under the terms of our articles of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without any need for approval by our shareholders but subject to any limitations prescribed by law, shares of our preferred stock in one or more series. Each series shall consist of such number of shares and have the rights, preferences, powers and restrictions, such as dividend rights and preferences, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation rights and preferences, as our Board of Directors shall determine. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock with voting, conversion or other rights that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and that could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Our stock price has been volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility and this trend may continue. For example, during the 2010 fiscal year, the price of our common stock ranged from $3.86 to $6.75. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting our market price include, but are not limited to, our failure to meet expectations regarding new orders or sales of our vehicles; differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; announcements of new contracts or orders by us or our competitors; and market reaction to any future acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors. Recent events have caused stock prices for many companies, including ours, to fluctuate in ways unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. The general economic, political and stock market conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control. The 26 Table of Contents continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial markets has had and may continue to have an impact on our stock price. For example, the limited availability of credit in the financial markets and the continued threat of terrorism in the U.S. and abroad, the resulting military action, and heightened security measures undertaken in response to threats may cause continued volatility in securities markets. The market price of our common stock at any particular time may not remain the market price in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Nevada Corporation Law, could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current Board of Directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As discussed above, our Board of Directors is empowered to issue preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval. Any issuance of this "blank check" preferred stock could materially limit the rights of holders of the common stock and render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. In addition, our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain a number of provisions that could impede a takeover or change in control of us, including our staggered board, limitation on the ability of our shareholders to act by written consent, advance notice provisions and the ability for the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy on our Board of Directors. Certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law could also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by our Board of Directors or shareholders. These provisions relate to, among other things, the acquisition of a controlling interest in a Nevada corporation meeting certain requirements or certain business combinations and other transactions between a Nevada corporation and certain "interested stockholders." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 