Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in the securities of the Company involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in the securities of the Company, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of the Company. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks may also have a significant or material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of the Company. The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in a substantially higher losses under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will reduce the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio, increase interest expense on our variable rate debt obligations and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our Life businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. In addition, certain of our products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non–U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, the yen denominated individual fixed annuity product, and certain guaranteed benefits associated with the Japan variable annuity. These risks relate to the potential decreases in value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates verses the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated individual fixed annuity product. In comparison, a strengthening of the Japanese yen in comparison to the U.S. dollar and other currencies may increase our exposure to the guarantee benefits associated with the Japan variable annuity. If significant, declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may be unable to effectively mitigate the impact of equity market volatility on our financial position and results of operations arising from obligations under annuity product guarantees, which may affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our life businesses where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. In addition, some of the products offered by these businesses, especially variable annuities, offer certain guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure as the equity 13 Table of Contents markets decline. We are subject to equity market volatility related to these benefits, especially the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity products. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to minimize the claim exposure and the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability. While we believe that these and other actions we have taken mitigate the risks related to these benefits, we are subject to the risks that reinsurers are unable or unwilling to pay, that other risk management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Regulatory proceedings or private claims relating to incentive compensation or payments made to brokers or other producers, alleged anti-competitive conduct and other sales practices could have a material adverse effect on us. The Hartford has received multiple regulatory inquiries regarding our compensation arrangements with brokers and other producers. For example, in June 2004, The Hartford received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General’s Office in connection with its inquiry into compensation arrangements between brokers and carriers. In mid-September 2004 and subsequently, The Hartford has received additional subpoenas from the New York Attorney General’s Office, which relate more specifically to possible anti-competitive activity among brokers and insurers. On October 14, 2004, the New York Attorney General’s Office filed a civil complaint against Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., and Marsh, Inc. (collectively, “Marsh”). The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain insurance companies, including The Hartford, participated with Marsh in arrangements to submit inflated bids for business insurance and paid contingent commissions to ensure that Marsh would direct business to them. The Hartford was not joined as a defendant in the action, which has since settled. Since the beginning of October 2004, The Hartford has received subpoenas or other information requests from Attorneys General and regulatory agencies in more than a dozen jurisdictions regarding broker compensation, possible anti-competitive activity and sales practices. The Hartford may continue to receive additional subpoenas and other information requests from Attorneys General or other regulatory agencies regarding similar issues. The Hartford intends to continue cooperating fully with these investigations, and is conducting an internal review, with the assistance of outside counsel, regarding broker compensation issues. Although no regulatory action has been initiated against the Company in connection with the allegations described in the civil complaint, it is possible that one or more other regulatory agencies may pursue action against the Company or one or more of its employees in the future on this matter or on other similar matters. If such an action is brought, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Regulatory and market-driven changes may affect our practices relating to the payment of incentive compensation to brokers and other producers, including changes that have been announced and those which may occur in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. We pay brokers and independent agents commissions and other forms of incentive compensation in connection with the sale of many of the Company’s insurance products. Since the New York Attorney General’s Office filed a civil complaint against Marsh on October 14, 2004, several of the largest national insurance brokers, including Marsh, Aon Corporation and Willis Group Holdings Limited, have announced that they have discontinued the use of contingent compensation arrangements. Other industry participants may make similar, or different, determinations in the future. In addition, legal, legislative, regulatory, business or other developments may require changes to industry practices relating to incentive compensation. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of these announced or potential changes on our business or distribution strategies, but such changes could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and profitability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include an investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the insurance and financial services industries resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized insurance and financial services firms that market products and services similar to ours. Many of these firms also have been able to increase their distribution systems through mergers or contractual arrangements. These competitors compete with us for producers such as brokers and independent agents. Larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. These competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services, particularly as competitors seek to win market share, and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Because of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments that would adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. We are involved in legal actions which do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. These actions include, among others, putative state and federal class actions seeking certification of a state or national class. Such putative class actions have alleged, for example, improper sales practices in connection with the sale of life insurance and other investment products and improper fee arrangements in connection with mutual funds. We are also involved in individual actions in which punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. Given the large or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these actions, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Potential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: • Licensing companies and agents to transact business; • calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; • mandating certain insurance benefits; • regulating certain premium rates; • reviewing and approving policy forms; • regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; • establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; • fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; • approving changes in control of insurance companies; • restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and • regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions. Our asset management operations are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Changes in all of these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, 15 Table of Contents are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by general domestic and international economic and business conditions that are less favorable than anticipated. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct. For example, in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Further, given that we offer our products and services in North America, Japan, Europe and South America, we are exposed to these risks in multiple geographic locations. Our operations are subject to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks and challenges which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required levels of our capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local counterparties. These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks of our local borrowers and counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain markets, and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential incompatibility with partners. Additionally, much of our overall growth is due to our expansion into new markets for our investment products, primarily in Japan. Our expansion in these new markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these areas. Accordingly, our overall success depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed despite these differing and dynamic economic, social and political conditions. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business and we cannot guarantee that the inability to successfully address the risks related to economic conditions in all of the geographic locations where we conduct business will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. We distribute our annuity and life insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third party organizations. In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through individual third party arrangements. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect our ability to market our products. We may experience a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings which may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital, and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating organization, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating organizations may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating organizations have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control could impact a rating organization’s judgment of its rating and the subsequent rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating organizations, which may adversely affect us. Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings, or an announced potential downgrade, of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings. The interest rates we pay on our borrowings are largely dependent on our credit ratings. A downgrade of our credit ratings, or an announced potential downgrade, could affect our ability to raise additional debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our cost of capital. In addition, a downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries described above. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 