ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete, the uncertainty of current and future global economic conditions, and for many other reasons, including the following: •Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. •A significant portion of our quarterly retail sales typically occurs in the last weeks of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. •Our sales are impacted by end-user consumer demand and current and future global economic conditions, and can therefore fluctuate abruptly and significantly during periods of uncertain economic conditions or geographic distress, as well as from shifts in consumer buying patterns. •We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. •We may not fully or timely realize the anticipated benefits from the restructuring plan announced in April 2012. The restructuring plan is intended to reduce operating costs through a global workforce reduction and a reduction in the complexity of our product portfolio. •Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time and during periods of weakness in consumer spending, our ability to increase local currency selling prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, our results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. If we fail to innovate and develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner for our new and existing product categories, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The personal peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. The success of our product portfolio depends on several factors, including our ability to: •identify new features, functionality and opportunities; •anticipate technology, market trends and consumer preferences; •develop innovative, high-quality, and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner; 23 Table of Contents •distinguish our products from those of our competitors; and •offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our end-users' needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may be not competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into new or existing products, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers' ordering patterns, excessive levels of existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers' demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We believe sales of our PC peripherals in our mature markets may decline, and that our future growth will depend on our new product categories and sales in emerging market geographies, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, or if our sales of PC peripherals in mature markets are less than we expect, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs is decelerating in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, and we believe consumer demand for PCs and peripherals in mature markets is slowing and potentially may decline in future years. In fiscal year 2012, we experienced weak consumer demand for our remotes and PC webcams in our Americas and EMEA regions, which adversely affected our financial performance. In our OEM channel, the decline of desktop PCs has adversely impacted our sales of OEM mice, which have historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales. Our OEM sales accounted for 8% and 9% of total revenues in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. 24 Table of Contents In addition, our sales in our mature markets in North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia might be less than we expect due to a decline in business or economic conditions in one or more of the countries or regions, a greater decline than we expect in demand for our products, our inability to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery and the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. As a result, we are focusing more of our personnel, financial resources, and management attention on product innovations and growth opportunities in emerging markets, on products for tablets and mobile devices, on products for the consumption of digital music, on sales to enterprise markets, on our LifeSize division, and other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below. Emerging Markets. We believe that the world's emerging markets, such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, will, for the next several years, be the high growth markets for PCs and for our peripherals product lines. We have allocated significant resources to our sales, marketing and administrative personnel in China and, to a lesser extent, other emerging markets. We anticipate that emerging markets will include potentially high growth opportunities, offset by potential entrenched local competition, higher credit risks, and other factors that affect consumer trends in ways which may be substantially different from our current major markets. PCs may not continue to be a growth category in emerging markets, and consumers in emerging markets may prefer tablets, smartphones, other mobile devices or other technologies. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner which are attractive to consumers in these markets, if consumer demand for PCs and our peripherals in emerging markets does not increase as much as we expect, or if we invest resources in products or geographic areas which do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Tablets, Smartphones and Other Mobile Devices. The increasing popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces is rapidly changing the consumer PC market. In our retail channels, tablets and smartphones are sold by retailers without peripherals. We believe this creates opportunities to sell products to consumers to help make their devices more productive and comfortable. However, consumer acceptance and demand for peripherals for use with tablets and other mobile computing devices is still uncertain. The increasing popularity of tablets and smartphones might decrease consumer demand for our PC peripherals, which would adversely affect our sales of these products. If we do not successfully innovate and market products designed for tablets and smartphones, if our distributor or retailer customers do not choose to carry or market such peripherals, or if general consumer demand for peripherals for use with these devices does not increase, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Digital Music. We have recently increased our focus on products for the consumption of digital music as a future sales growth area. We are increasing our product development and marketing investment in digital music. However, historically our audio product development and marketing efforts have focused primarily on products for the PC platform and on sound quality. Our past experience is not necessarily transferable to the consumption of music through mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones, where we believe consumers put a greater emphasis on features such as convenience and brand. In addition, competition in the digital music consumption category is intense, and we expect it to increase. If we are not able to identify product development and marketing skill gaps, resolve them, and introduce differentiated product and marketing strategies to separate ourselves from competitors, our digital music efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Enterprise Market. Direct sales to the enterprise market is a relatively new sales channel for us. While we have been able to leverage our indirect distribution channels to sell to the enterprise market, we may not be successful in expanding enterprise sales. Some of our competitors have longer and closer relationships with the senior management of enterprise customers who decide which products and technologies will be deployed in their enterprises. Some competitors have larger and more established sales forces calling on enterprise customers, as well as greater marketing resources, and therefore could contact a greater number of potential customers with more frequency and influence their buying decisions. Consequently, these competitors may have a better competitive position than we do, which could adversely affect our ability grow our revenues through the enterprise sales channel. LifeSize. Competition in the video conferencing industry is intense, with large, well-financed competitors, and we expect the number of competitors and the intensity of competition to increase. Although we have maintained the LifeSize enterprise sales organization, Logitech has little experience with selling to enterprise accounts, or in marketing to large enterprises. Additionally, as customers complete video conferencing installations, they may require greater levels of service and support than we have provided in the past. Demand for these types of services and support may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, services and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Further, our providing greater levels of services and support may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. We anticipate that the growth of our LifeSize division will require continuing investments in product development and sales and marketing to stimulate and support future growth. If our future investments do not produce the growth that we anticipate, or when we anticipate it, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. As we expand into new markets and product categories, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters. Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both. These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs, and reputational harm and, in severe cases, force us to recall products or prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The peripherals and video conferencing industries are intensely competitive. The peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets, and price sensitivity in the OEM market. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands, in both the retail and OEM markets. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions which may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. The video conferencing industry is characterized by continual performance enhancements and large, well-financed competitors. There is increased participation in the video conferencing market by companies such as Cisco and Polycom, and as a result, we expect competition in the industry to further intensify. In addition, there are an increasing number of PC-based multi-person video conferencing applications, such as those offered by Skype, which could compete at the lower end of the video conferencing market with our LifeSize products and services. 26 Table of Contents In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell, and entered new markets. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Cisco, Sony, Polycom and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Microsoft is a leading producer of operating systems and applications with which our mice, keyboards and webcams are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft may be able to improve the functionality of its own peripherals to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and may be financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share. Pointing Devices, Keyboards and Desktops. Microsoft is our main competitor in the mice, keyboard and desktop product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless mice and desktops from less-established brands, including house brands, which we believe have impacted our market share in some sales geographies and which could potentially further impact our market share. Audio. Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. In the PC, mobile entertainment and communication platform speaker business, competitors include Plantronics, Altec Lansing, Creative Labs and Bose Corporation. In the PC headset and microphone business, our main competitors include Plantronics and Altec Lansing. We have increased our focus on products for the consumption of digital music as a future sales growth area. We are increasing our product development and marketing investment in digital music. Our competitors for products such as earbuds, earphones and mobile speakers include brands such as Skull Candy, Beats by Dre, and Jawbone, each of which have higher consumer recognition and retailer shelf space in digital music than we do. Our Squeezebox Wi-Fi music players for digital music compete with systems from several small competitors as well as larger established consumer electronics companies, like Sony and Royal Philips Electronics NV. Video. Our competitors for PC Web cameras include Microsoft, Creative Labs, Philips, and Hewlett-Packard. The market for PC Web cameras has been declining, particularly in our traditional, mature, consumer-developed markets, as the embedded webcam experience appears to be sufficient to meet the needs of many retail customers. As the worldwide market for PC Web cameras has become more competitive, we are encountering increasingly aggressive pricing practices and promotions on a worldwide basis. These factors have adversely affected our revenues and margins in this category. Gaming. Competitors for our interactive entertainment products include CSG International (formerly Intec), Razer USA Ltd., Performance Designed Products, LLC (Pelican Accessories), Mad Catz Interactive, and its Saitek brand. Our controllers for PlayStation also compete against controllers offered by Sony. Digital Home. Our competitors for remotes include, among others, Philips, Universal Remote Control, Universal Electronics, RCA and Sony. We expect that the growth in consumer demand for peripheral devices for home entertainment systems will likely result in increased competition. 27 Table of Contents Video Conferencing. We primarily compete in the medium and small business, education, and state and local business sectors of the enterprise video conferencing market. Our primary competitors are Cisco, Polycom and Avaya. There are also a number of smaller competitors that compete with LifeSize. Some of these companies have longer industry experience or substantially greater financial, sales, marketing and engineering resources than we do as well as a larger customer-installed base than LifeSize. Avaya recently acquired Radvision Ltd. and has become a competitor, though it has also been a distributor and OEM partner for LifeSize. In addition, Microsoft's acquisition of Skype Limited has given Microsoft a large user base for future competitive video chat and video-conferencing products, along with integration potential across Microsoft's product portfolio. Microsoft has also been a partner for LifeSize. Technology changes are also affecting the competitive landscape in this market, and may require interoperability or compatibility with unified communication platforms, Microsoft Lync or other technologies. The developers of those technologies may have an advantage in improving the functionality of their own video conferencing equipment to correspond with these technologies before we can make such improvements, or may restrict the interoperability of their products with ours. In the large enterprise sector of the market, which is dominated by Cisco, interoperability with equipment produced by Cisco, Tandberg (now part of Cisco) and other telecommunications, video conferencing or telepresence equipment suppliers is a key factor in purchasing decisions by current or prospective customers. These factors could adversely affect the sales and growth opportunities of our LifeSize division, and the growth of Logitech as a whole. Moreover, if LifeSize sales declined substantially, the goodwill associated with the acquisition of the division might be determined to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash impairment charge, which would reduce operating results. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margin could decrease, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. If we do not accurately forecast market demand for our products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our retail products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. Over the past few years, we have expanded the types of products we sell, and the geographic markets in which we sell them. The changes in our product portfolio and the expansion of our sales markets have increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products. We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Our gross margins can vary due to consumer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, geographic sales mix, foreign currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new products in a timely manner at the product cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our products is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares. We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from the restructuring plan we announced in April 2012. We announced a restructuring plan in April 2012, which is intended to reduce operating costs through a global workforce reduction and a reduction in the complexity of and number of products in our product portfolio. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from this restructuring plan within the expected time frame are subject to many estimates and assumptions, and the actual savings and timing for those savings may vary materially based on factors such as local labor regulations, negotiations with third parties, and operational requirements. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the anticipated benefits from this restructuring plan. To the extent that we are unable to improve our financial performance, further restructuring measures may be required in the future. We have conducted intensive reviews of our product portfolio, and have concluded that our product strategy has been focused more on market dynamics than on the end-user consumer, resulting in an assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category, which we believe has generated confusion for the consumer. In order to improve our product portfolio, we have reprioritized our fiscal year 2013 new product portfolio. While we are constantly replacing products and dependent on the success of our new products, the current product line simplification effort is substantial, making us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing. As we transition to the new product portfolio, we must continue to carefully manage production, monitor channel inventory levels, and judiciously implement incentives for both existing and new products. If we are unable to implement the planned initiatives effectively, if our estimates and assumptions regarding sales of existing and new products are incorrect, if we do not manage the product transitions smoothly and cost-effectively, if we experience delays or if other unforeseen events occur, we may not achieve the sales and cost savings expected in fiscal year 2013 and beyond, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions. 29 Table of Contents We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the growth of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows. If we are unable to manage the growth of our employee base, particularly engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our operating cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, including declines in our stock prices in the past year, may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity incentives. Logitech's practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees, but the number of shares available for equity grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus. We have also experienced turnover in our workforce. These reductions and turnover have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee uncertainty and discontent. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to attract, motivate and retain employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our business depends in part on access to third-party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized. With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in order to produce products compatible with these platforms. Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod and iPhone, Android phones, Sony PlayStation, and Nintendo Wii. Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors. Our access to these third-party platforms can be withdrawn, denied or not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins, or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third-party platforms or technologies used to interact with our product portfolio can be delayed in production or can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies are delayed or change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information or conflicts among our channels of distribution could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. Our sales channel partners, the distributors and retailers who distribute and sell our products, also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors. If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our retailer channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to maintain our distribution channels, our business will suffer. The impact of economic conditions, evolving consumer preferences, and purchasing patterns on our distribution partners, or competition between our sales channels, could result in sales channel disruption. For example, if sales at large retail stores are displaced as a result of bankruptcy, competition from internet sales channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected. Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms. We use retail sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our retailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. In addition, the customers supplying sell-through data vary by geographic region and from period to period, but typically represent a majority of our retail sales. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, or if we do not properly interpret this information, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area. We produce approximately half of our products at facilities we own in China. The majority of our other production is performed by third-party contract manufacturers in China. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers in Malaysia and India. Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, by strains on China's available labor pool, communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by natural disasters, by conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, by labor unrest, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China's laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. 31 Table of Contents Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs. Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs. In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines. These conditions could adversely affect our gross margins and financial results. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers, optical sensors and LifeSize hardware products, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business as a result of adverse global economic conditions or natural disasters, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, we may have insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand and we could lose sales, or we may experience a build-up in inventory. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last weeks of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us. We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China. We may also increase our investments to grow sales in other emerging markets, such as Latin America and Eastern Europe. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental and tax laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; 32 Table of Contents •exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries, which may lead to currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; •exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; •difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition; •changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement; •imposition of currency exchange controls; and •delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our sales in China have increased substantially in the last two fiscal years, and continued sales growth in China is an important part of our expectations for our business. As a result, if Chinese economic, political or business conditions deteriorate, or if one or more of the risks described above materializes in China, our overall business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be granted. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, and entering new markets, such as the market for enterprise video conferencing and our introduction of products for tablets and mobile devices. We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets. As we do so, we face an increased risk that claims alleging we infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit of the claims, may increase in number and significance. Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap. This risk is heightened by the increase in lawsuits brought by holders of patents that do not have an operating business. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. A successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop 33 Table of Contents non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws and governmental regulation. In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe. Government actions are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information and its collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution in or from the governing jurisdiction. In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter. Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, could subject us to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business. Our effective income tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in management's assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service completed its field examinations of tax returns for the Company's U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, and issued NOPAs (notices of proposed adjustment) related to international tax issues for those years. The Company disagrees with the NOPAs and is contesting through the administrative process for the U.S. Internal Revenue Service claims regarding 2006 and 2007. In addition, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service is in the process of examining the Company's U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2008 and 2009. We are currently also subject to ongoing audits in other tax jurisdictions. A material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our profitability. If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 Table of Contents 