Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities involve a variety of risks. Below we describe the significant risk factors affecting our business. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us — other risks also could impact our business. Funding and Liquidity. Our business is affected by funding constraints in the capital markets and the interest rate characteristics of our earning assets do not always match the interest rate characteristics of our funding arrangements. These factors may increase the price of or decrease our ability to obtain liquidity as well expose us to basis and repricing risk. The capital markets have experienced and continue to experience a prolonged period of volatility. This volatility has had varying degrees of impact on most financial organizations, including us. These conditions have affected our access to and cost of capital necessary to manage and effectively operate our business. Additional factors that could make financing difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms include, but are not limited to, our financial results and losses, changes within our organization, events that have an adverse impact on our reputation, changes in the activities of our business partners, events that have an adverse impact on the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, corporate and regulatory actions, absolute and comparative interest rate changes, ratings agencies’ actions, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. If financing becomes more difficult, expensive or unavailable, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, the ongoing volatility and illiquidity of the capital markets has caused the U.S. Federal government to intervene and provide various forms of financial assistance and liquidity programs to numerous industries, including the student loan industry. Our participation in these programs provided significant liquidity for us at times when capital market alternatives were of limited availability or borrowing costs were otherwise excessive. Given current Federal budgetary constraints and recent congressional actions that have affected the student loan industry, there can be no assurance that these types of financial assistance and liquidity programs will again be made available if volatility and illiquidity of the capital markets were to increase or continue for a prolonged period of time. During 2010, we funded Private Education Loan originations primarily through term brokered and retail deposits raised by the Bank. Assets funded in this manner result in re-financing risk because the average term of the deposits is shorter than the expected term of some of the same assets. There is no assurance that this or other sources of funding, such as the term asset-backed securities market, will be available at a level and a cost that makes new Private Education Loan originations possible or profitable, nor is there any assurance that the loans can be re-financed at profitable margins. For additional discussion on regulatory and compliance risks relating to the Bank, see below at Item 1A “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Compliance.” If we were unable to obtain funds from which to make new Private Education Loans our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The interest rate characteristics of our earning assets do not always match the interest rate characteristics of our funding arrangements. This mismatch exposes us to risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk. While most of such basis risks are hedged using interest rate swap contracts, such hedges are not always perfect matches and, therefore, may result in losses. Moreover, it may not always be possible to hedge all of our exposure to such basis risks. While the asset and hedge indices are short-term with rate movements that are typically highly correlated, there can be no assurance that the historically high correlation will not be disrupted by capital market dislocations or other factors not within our control. In such circumstances, our earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. For instance, as a result of the turmoil in the capital markets, the historically tight spread between CP (the index used for many of our assets) and LIBOR (the index used for much of our debt) began to widen dramatically in the fourth quarter of 2008 resulting in substantial increases in our cost of funds. The spread subsequently returned to historical levels beginning in the third quarter of 2009 and has been stable since then. 11 Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the markets or trigger obligations under certain provisions in collateralized arrangements. Under these provisions, counterparties may require us to segregate collateral or terminate certain contracts. Further deterioration in the economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer credit and credit quality could adversely be affected. Higher credit-related losses and weaker credit quality could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and limit funding options, including capital markets activity, which could also adversely impact our liquidity position. Operations. A failure of our operating systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors, could disrupt our business, result in disclosure of confidential customer information, damage our reputation and cause losses. A failure of our operating systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors, could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal and regulatory standards and our product specifications, which we change to reflect our business needs. As processing demands change and our loan portfolios grow in both volume and differing terms and conditions, developing and maintaining our operating systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging and there is no assurance that we can adequately or efficiently develop and maintain such systems. Our loan originations and conversions and the servicing, financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities that support them may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to service our clients, result in financial loss or liability to our clients, disrupt our business, result in regulatory action or cause reputational damage. Despite the plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, a disruptive event impacting our processing locations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal, confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, malicious attacks and other events that could have a security impact beyond our control. If one or more of such events occur, personal, confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, could be jeopardized or otherwise interruptions or malfunctions in our operations could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We also routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information, some through third parties. We have put in place secure transmission capability, and work to ensure third parties follow similar procedures. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. In the event personal, confidential or other information is jeopardized, intercepted, misused or mishandled, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to fines, penalties, litigation costs and settlements and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. If one or more of such events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. 12 We continue to undertake numerous cost-cutting initiatives to realign and restructure our business in light of significant legislative changes in the past several years. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we do not effectively align our cost structure with our current business operations and future business prospects. In response to significant legislative changes in the past several years, we have undertaken and continue to undertake cost-cutting initiatives, including workforce reductions, servicing center closures, restructuring and transfers of business functions to new locations, enhancements to our web-based customer services, adoption of new procurement strategies and investments in operational efficiencies. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by these cost-cutting initiatives if cost reductions taken are so dramatic as to cause disruptions in our business or reductions in the quality of the services we provide. We may be unable to successfully execute on certain growth and other business strategies or achieve certain business goals or objectives if cost reductions are too dramatic. Alternatively, we may not be able to achieve our desired cost savings, and if that is the case our results of operations could be adversely affected. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. A description of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions may be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in “Note 2 — Significant Accounting Policies.” If we make incorrect assumptions or estimates, we may under- or overstate reported financial results, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Political and Reputational. The scope and profitability of our lending businesses remain subject to risks arising from legislative and administrative actions. Through the HCERA, the U.S. Congress mandated that all future federally guaranteed student loans be made through the DSLP, eliminating the FFELP. Further legislative action by Congress could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the President’s Fiscal 2012 Budget includes a provision that would, for a limited period of time, incent borrowers that have loans with the FFELP and DSLP to move their FFELP Loans to ED. While such consolidations have been permitted for some time, incentives such as these, if such a proposal were to be approved, could incrementally increase the rate at which borrowers might otherwise have moved certain FFELP Loans to ED and our future estimated cash flows and profitability from our FFELP Loan portfolios could be detrimentally affected. Likewise, additional restrictions or requirements imposed on private student lending could increase our costs, affect our ability to recover loans and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the financial services industries generally have the potential to negatively impact our business and results of operations. As a non-bank financial institution we are often subject to laws and regulations related to the broader financial services industry. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 has the potential to significantly increase our costs of doing business or affect our relative competitiveness within our industry. For a more detailed description of the implications of this act, see below at Item 1A 13 “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Compliance.” In 2010, we were anticipating the introduction of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) tax, which had the potential to significantly reduce our net income. The President’s Fiscal 2012 Budget resubmits such a tax for Congress’ consideration. The passage of sweeping changes to the legal and regulatory environments in which we operate, including increases in taxation or fees charged on our business, have the potential to materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to continue to grow our businesses related to contracting with state and federal governments is partly reliant on our ability to remain compliant with the laws and regulations applicable to those contracts. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations related to our government contracting businesses, including our contracts with ED. In addition, these government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations. If we were found in noncompliance with the contract provisions or applicable laws or regulations, or the government exercised its termination or other rights for that or other reasons, our reputation could be negatively affected, and our ability to compete for new contracts could be diminished. If this were to occur, the future prospects, revenues and results of operations of this portion of our business could be negatively affected. Competition. We operate in a competitive environment, and our product offerings are primarily concentrated in loan and savings products for higher education. We compete in the private credit lending business with banks and other consumer lending institutions, many with strong consumer brand name recognition. We compete based on our products, origination capability and customer service. To the extent our competitors compete aggressively or more effectively, we could lose market share to them or subject our existing loans to refinancing risk. In addition, there is a risk that any new education or loan products that we introduce will not be accepted in the marketplace. Our product offerings may not prove to be profitable and may fail to offset the loss of business in the education credit market. We are a leading provider of saving- and paying-for-college products and programs. This concentration gives us a competitive advantage in the marketplace. This concentration also creates risks in our business, particularly in light of our concentration as a private credit lender and servicer for the FFELP and DSLP. If population demographics result in a decrease in college-age individuals, if demand for higher education decreases, if the cost of attendance of higher education decreases, if public resistance to higher education costs increases, or if the demand for higher education loans decreases, our private credit lending business could be negatively affected. In addition, the federal government, through the DSLP, poses significant competition to our private credit loan products. If loan limits under the DSLP increase, as they did in late 2007 and 2008, DSLP loans could be more widely available to students and parents and DSLP loan limits could increase, resulting in a decrease in the size of the private credit education loan market and lessened demand for our private credit education loan products. Credit and Counterparty. Unexpected and sharp changes in the overall economic environment may negatively impact the performance of our loan and credit portfolios. Unexpected changes in the overall economic environment may result in the credit performance of our loan portfolio being materially different from what we expect. Our earnings are critically dependent on the evolving creditworthiness of our student loan customers. We maintain a reserve for credit losses based on expected future charge-offs which considers many factors, including levels of past due loans and forbearances and expected economic conditions. However, management’s determination of the appropriate reserve level may under- or over-estimate future losses. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if a market risk changes significantly, or if our reserves for credit losses are not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 14 In addition to the credit risk associated with our education loan customers, we are also subject to the creditworthiness of other third parties, including counterparties to our derivative transactions. For example, we have exposure to the financial condition of various lending, investment and derivative counterparties. If any of our counterparties is unable to perform its obligations, we could, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. In addition, we might not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment, and thus be exposed to a greater level of interest rate and/or foreign currency exchange rate risk which could lead to additional losses. Our counterparty exposure is more fully discussed in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Counterparty Exposure.” If our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Regulatory and Compliance. Our businesses are regulated by various state and federal laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, sanctions, litigation or the loss of federal guarantees on affected FFELP Loans. Our businesses are subject to numerous state and federal laws and regulations and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, including litigation costs, and/or business sanctions. In addition, changes to such laws and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations if we are not able to adequately mitigate the impact of such changes. Our private credit lending and debt collection businesses are subject to regulation and oversight by various state and federal agencies, particularly in the area of consumer protection. Some state attorneys general have been active in this area of consumer protection regulation. We are subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators as well as frequent litigation from private plaintiffs. The Bank is subject to state and FDIC regulation, oversight and regular examination. The FDIC and state regulators have the authority to impose fines, penalties or other limitations on the Bank’s operations should they conclude that its operations are not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. At the time of this filing, the Bank was the subject of a cease and desist order for weaknesses in its compliance function. While the issues addressed in the order have largely been remediated, the order has not yet been lifted. Our failure to comply with various laws and regulations or with the terms of the cease and desist order or to have issues raised during an examination could result in litigation expenses, fines, business sanctions, and limitations on our ability to fund our Private Education Loans, which are currently funded by deposits raised by the Bank, or restrictions on the operations of the Bank. The imposition of fines, penalties or other limitations on the Bank’s business could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loans serviced under the FFELP are subject to the HEA and related regulations. Our servicing operations are designed and monitored to comply with the HEA, related regulations and program guidance; however ED could determine that we are not in compliance for a variety of reasons, including that we misinterpreted ED guidance or incorrectly applied the HEA and its related regulations or policies. Failure to comply could result in fines, the loss of the federal guarantees on affected FFELP Loans, expenses required to cure servicing deficiencies, suspension or termination of our right to participate as a servicer, negative publicity and potential legal claims. A summary of the FFELP, which indicates its complexity and frequent changes, may be found in Appendix A “Federal Family Education Loan Program.” The imposition of significant fines, the loss of federal guarantees on a material number of FFELP Loans, the incurrence of additional expenses and/or the loss of our ability to participate as a FFELP servicer could individually or in the aggregate have a material, negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act” or the “Act”), legislation to reform and strengthen supervision of the 15 U.S. financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive change to banking laws, imposing significant new regulation on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act will result in significant new regulation in key areas of our business and the markets in which we operate. Pursuant to the Act, we and many of our subsidiaries, including the Bank, will be subject to regulations promulgated by a new consumer protection bureau housed within the Federal Reserve System, known as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”). The Bureau will have substantial power to define the rights of consumers and responsibilities of lending institutions, including our Private Education lending and retail banking businesses. The Bureau will not examine the Bank, and the Bank’s primary regulator will remain the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. The U.S. Treasury Department has designated July 21, 2011 as the date upon which the Bureau will begin to exercise its authority. In addition, the act mandates the U.S. Secretary of Education to examine the private education loan market in the U.S. and provide a report to Congress by July 20, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that the newly established Financial Services Oversight Council (the “FSOC”) may designate that certain nonbank financial companies must be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) and be subject to enhanced prudential supervision and regulatory standards to be developed by the Federal Reserve Board. The FSOC may designate a nonbank financial company as systemically important if they find that material financial distress at the company — or its nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of activities — could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. Such enhanced standards will include, among other things, risk-based capital and liquidity requirements, special regulatory and insolvency regimes, production of a resolution plan to cover potential insolvencies and may include such additional requirements on matters such as credit exposure concentrations. Most of the component parts of the Dodd-Frank Act will be subject to intensive rulemaking and public comment over the coming months and we cannot predict the ultimate effect the Act or required examinations of the private education loan market could have on our operations or those of our subsidiaries, such as the Bank, at this time. It is likely, however, that operational expenses will increase if new or additional compliance requirements are imposed on our operations and our competitiveness could be significantly affected if we are subjected to supervision and regulatory standards not otherwise applicable to our competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 