ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS When evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. These risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. We may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. In addition, the trading price of our securities could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the Annual Report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a “material adverse effect” on us or may, could or will materially adversely affect us we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the market prices of our securities. Sempra Energy’s cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. Sempra Energy’s ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. In the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. In addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. Conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. Our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. The credit markets and financial services industry have experienced a period of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and proposals for further intervention and additional regulation. Limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. In difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. This could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. The availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. If the credit ratings of SoCalGas or SDG&E were to be reduced, their cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and any reduction in Sempra Energy’s ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of Sempra Energy and its non-utility subsidiaries. Risks Related to All Sempra Energy Subsidiaries Our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. In recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. These changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. These changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. Moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. Special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs if applicable. Our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. Compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations could materially adversely affect our tax expense. Changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and changes in the way regulations, laws and tariffs are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the California Utilities and other Sempra Energy operations. These rules are commonly referred to as the Affiliate Transaction Rules. These businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional CPUC or FERC rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the California Utilities and with each other. Affiliate Transaction Rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the CPUC before entering into any such transactions with the California Utilities. Any such restrictions or approval requirements could materially adversely affect the LNG terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. Our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. All of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. The acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of LNG terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. Once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. In addition, permits, licenses, certificates, and other approvals may be modified or rescinded by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. Any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain the necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and GHG emissions. We are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. Additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. In addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. The scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. Increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. In particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. The implementation of recent and proposed California and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. Similarly, the California Utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. Even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. SDG&E may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. In addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. Moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. We provide further discussion of these matters in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. Like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. Because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risk to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities is substantially greater than a typical business. Such facilities and infrastructure include, but are not limited to: § power generation plants § natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage § electric transmission and distribution § nuclear waste storage facilities § LNG terminals and storage § nuclear power generation facilities § chartered LNG tankers Such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. Any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. Depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires, leaks, radioactive releases, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. Any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. In some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, and in cases where the concept of inverse condemnation applies, we may be liable for damages without being found to be at fault or to have been negligent. Insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. Our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. We have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. In particular, SDG&E is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of San Diego County wildfires in 2007. We discuss these proceedings in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report. The uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. In addition, California juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. Accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. We cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. In addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. To reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and LNG, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. As part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. We do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. In addition, certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. Such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for that contract. In certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. Risk management procedures may not prevent losses. Although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. Risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. In addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. As a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. The operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. Several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. Our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a facility-by-facility basis. Any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. These potential labor disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. Labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. New business technologies present a risk for attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid. Cybersecurity and the protection of our operations and activities are a priority at Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas. We believe that the most significant cybersecurity risks to our businesses reside within the operations of our utilities. In addition to general information and cyber risks that all Fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces new cybersecurity risks associated with automated metering (virtually all of our SDG&E customers have such metering and SoCalGas is beginning the process of converting its customers to such metering) and with Smart Grid infrastructure. Deployment of these new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on the utilities’ information systems and, more importantly, on the integrity of the energy grid. While addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across Sempra Energy’s businesses, we cannot ensure that a successful attack will not occur. Such an attack to our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, or one of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Risks Related to the California Utilities The California Utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. The CPUC regulates the California Utilities’ rates, except SDG&E’s electric transmission rates which are regulated by the FERC. The CPUC also regulates the California Utilities’: § conditions of service § rates of depreciation § capital structure § long-term resource procurement § rates of return § sales of securities The CPUC conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with CPUC regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. These reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. SoCalGas and SDG&E may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines under new regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. We discuss various CPUC proceedings relating to the California Utilities’ rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report. The California Utilities may spend significant amounts of money related to a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. If the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. The CPUC periodically approves the California Utilities’ rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. If actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the CPUC, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the California Utilities’ authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, as we discuss under “Cost of Capital” in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. The CPUC applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all California utilities. Under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant (rate base) to increase earnings. At the California Utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at SoCalGas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. Although the California Utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. Additionally, if the California Utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. The FERC regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving SDG&E. The California Utilities may be materially adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the CPUC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. New legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. The construction and expansion of the California Utilities’ natural gas pipelines, SoCalGas’ storage facilities, and SDG&E’s electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. If there are delays in obtaining these approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the California Utilities’ businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Coordinating these projects so that they are on time and within budget requires superior execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. In the event that one or more of these major projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the California Utilities. Recovery of 2007 Wildfire Litigation Costs Requires Future Regulatory Approval. SDG&E is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of the San Diego County wildfires in 2007. Through December 31, 2012, SDG&E’s costs to settle these claims and its estimated future settlement costs and defense costs are approximately $2.4 billion, exceeding its $1.1 billion of liability insurance coverage and the approximately $824 million recovered from third parties. SDG&E is seeking to recover in rates its reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. SDG&E has concluded that it is probable that SDG&E will be permitted to recover a substantial portion of these excess costs in rates, and at December 31, 2012, Sempra Energy’s and SDG&E’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include assets of $364 million in Regulatory Assets Arising From Wildfire Litigation Costs, of which $317 million is related to CPUC-regulated operations and $47 million is related to FERC-regulated operations, with respect to these excess costs. However, recovery of these amounts in rates will require future regulatory approval. In August 2009, SDG&E and SoCalGas filed an application with the CPUC proposing a new mechanism for the future recovery of wildfire-related expenses for claims, litigation expenses and insurance premiums that are in excess of amounts authorized by the CPUC for recovery in distribution rates. In December 2012, the CPUC issued a final decision that denied the proposed blanket cost recovery framework for the utilities but allowed SDG&E to maintain its authorized memorandum account, enabling SDG&E to file applications with the CPUC requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. For a description of this proceeding and information about 2007 wildfire litigation costs and their recovery, see Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. SDG&E will continue to assess the probability of recovery of these excess wildfire costs in rates. Should SDG&E conclude that recovery in rates is no longer probable, SDG&E will record a charge against earnings at the time such conclusion is reached. If SDG&E had concluded that the recovery of regulatory assets related to CPUC-regulated operations was no longer probable or was less than currently estimated as of December 31, 2012, the resulting after-tax charge against earnings would have been up to $190 million. In addition, in periods following any such conclusion, SDG&E’s earnings will be adversely impacted by increases in the estimated costs to litigate or settle pending wildfire claims. As noted above, recovery of excess wildfire costs in rates will require future regulatory approval, and a failure to obtain all or a significant portion of the expected recovery, or a conclusion that recovery in rates is no longer probable, would likely have a material adverse effect on Sempra Energy’s and SDG&E’s cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. In addition, if recovery is permitted, the collection process may extend over a number of years and Sempra Energy’s and SDG&E’s cash flows may be materially adversely affected due to the timing differences between resolution of claims and the recovery in rates. We discuss how we assess the probability of recovery of our regulatory assets in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. SDG&E may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility. SDG&E has a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, a 2,150-MW nuclear generating facility near San Clemente, California, operated by Southern California Edison Company. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. SDG&E’s ownership interest in SONGS subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include § the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. If such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; § the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; § limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; § uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of equipment maintenance, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants; § a substantial increase in oversight and new and more onerous regulations due to the nuclear disaster at Japan’s Fukushima Daiichi plant in early 2011; and § the results of the CPUC’s Order Instituting Investigation (OII), as described in more detail below, into the SONGS outage that began in the first quarter of 2012. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s and Sempra Energy’s businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Ongoing regulatory and maintenance issues at SONGS may have a material adverse effect on us. As discussed in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, SONGS’s Units 2 and 3 are offline. The timing of the restart of either of these Units is dependent upon approval by the NRC, which could result in substantial additional expenditures that may not be recoverable, in whole or in part, in customer rates. In November 2012, the CPUC issued an OII into the SONGS outage to determine whether SDG&E should remove from customer rates some or all revenue requirement associated with the portion of the facility that is out of service. This OII will consolidate all SONGS issues from related regulatory proceedings and consider the appropriate cost recovery for SONGS, including among other costs, the cost of the steam generator replacement project, replacement power costs, capital expenditures, operation and maintenance costs and seismic study costs. The OII requires all costs related to SONGS incurred since January 1, 2012, be tracked in newly established memorandum accounts, with all revenues collected since January 1, 2012, in recovery of such costs and the return on SDG&E’s investment in SONGS subject to refund. The OII will address the extent to which such revenues, if any, will be required to be refunded to customers. Any extended shut down of one or both of these Units and the costs required to bring those Units back online could materially adversely affect SDG&E’s and Sempra Energy’s results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. In addition, any decision by the CPUC to require SDG&E to refund some or all of the revenues collected in recovery of the costs described above could materially adversely affect SDG&E’s and Sempra Energy’s results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. Risks Related to our Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power Businesses Our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. Sempra Mexico, Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas generate electricity that they sell under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas purchase natural gas to fuel their power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy their contractual obligations. As part of their risk management strategy, they may hedge a substantial portion of their electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage their portfolios, which subjects us to the risk that the counterparty to such hedge may be unable to fulfill its obligations. Such a failure could materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. We buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for LNG terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. Our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, LNG or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. Unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: § weather conditions § seasonality § changes in supply and demand § transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies § availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources § commodity production levels § actions by oil producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil § federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation § natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events § expropriation of assets by foreign countries The FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. The FERC may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. Any such action by the FERC may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. When our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, we are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks. Sempra Mexico, Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. However, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. We may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation or entering into hedges. However, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. The failure to so fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. Business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. The acquisition, development, construction and expansion of LNG terminals, natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation and transmission facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: § negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements § negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements § timely receipt of required governmental permits and rights of way § timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction Successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by: § unforeseen engineering problems § construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls § work stoppages § equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases § adverse weather conditions § environmental and geological conditions § litigation § unsettled property rights § other factors If we are unable to complete the development of a facility or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. The operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. The occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. Such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. With respect to our proposed project to add LNG export capability at our Cameron facility, we currently anticipate building a facility consisting of three liquefaction trains with a total nameplate capacity of 13.5 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) of LNG and expected export capability of 12 Mtpa of LNG, or approximately 1.7 Bcf per day. Total cost will be approximately $6 billion to $7 billion, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs and subject to final design specifications. While we have signed commercial development agreements with Mitsubishi Corporation, Mitsui & Co. and a subsidiary of GDF SUEZ S.A., these agreements only bind the parties to fund certain development costs, including design, permitting and engineering costs of the proposed project and to negotiate in good faith 20-year tolling agreements with respect to 12 Mtpa of LNG. The development agreements do not obligate the parties to finance the actual construction of this new facility, and there can be no assurance that the parties will reach agreement on the terms of the 20-year tolling agreements. If one or more of the parties decides not to move forward with the project or does not enter into a tolling agreement, or if we are unable to arrange suitable financing, the project may be substantially delayed, reduced or terminated. If the project is terminated, we may not recover our share of any project development or other related costs expended and may be required to write off our share of any such previously capitalized costs. In addition, this project may be delayed, reduced or terminated in the event we are unable to obtain all of the necessary permits, licenses and authorizations in a timely manner. If the application to export to non-FTA countries is not approved, the size of the project may be reduced, or the project may be delayed or terminated. The anticipated cost of this project is based on a number of assumptions that may prove incorrect, and the ultimate cost could significantly exceed the current estimate of $6 billion to $7 billion, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs and subject to final design specifications. Customers look at a number of factors when evaluating participation in a project, and changes in these factors, including global natural gas and LNG prices, could have an impact on the project going forward. Prior to our final investment decision and in the event we decide not to proceed with the project, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Following our final investment decision and in the event we decide to proceed with the project, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. We may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. The electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. As more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. Without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility. The 10-year power sales agreement between Sempra Natural Gas and the DWR, which comprised 6 percent of our revenues in 2011 and 8 percent of our revenues in 2010, expired on September 30, 2011. As a result, we may be unable to sell the power that Sempra Natural Gas’ and Sempra Mexico’s facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas utilize their LNG terminals by entering into long-term capacity agreements. Under these agreements, customers pay us capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customer’s LNG. These segments also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase LNG to be received, stored and regasified at their terminals for sale to other parties. The long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying LNG supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. However, if our LNG operations are unable to obtain sufficient long-term agreements or if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the LNG facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. Our potential LNG suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of LNG. Sempra Mexico’s and Sempra Natural Gas’ natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of LNG and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our LNG facilities. We provide information about these matters in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. If they fail to so perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. We are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements. Should they fail to so perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. In such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. In addition, many of our agreements are essential to the conduct and growth of our businesses. The failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. Finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. While we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. Sempra Mexico’s and Sempra Natural Gas’ obligations and those of their suppliers for LNG supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for “force majeure” events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. Legal actions challenging our property rights could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. We are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties on which our LNG terminal in Mexico is located and our title to the property on which our Termoeléctrica de Mexicali power generation facility is located. In June 2012, the state civil court in Mexicali ruled that our title to the property on which our Termoeléctrica de Mexicali power generation facility is located was invalid due to procedural errors made by our predecessor in title. However, the court also declined to award title to the claimant, and we are appealing the ruling invalidating our title. In the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our LNG terminal is located or the property on which our power generation facility is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related facility or terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such facility and/or terminal. If we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related facility or terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. We rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. We depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: § deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, § supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and § provide retail energy services to customers. Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas also rely on specialized ships to transport LNG to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. Sempra Natural Gas, Sempra Renewables, Sempra South American Utilities and Sempra Mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. If transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. As a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. Our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. We own or have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and LNG terminal projects in Mexico, and electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in Argentina, Chile and Peru. Developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: § changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and U.S. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations § governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses § high rates of inflation § volatility in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate § changes in government policies or personnel § trade restrictions § limitations on U.S. company ownership in foreign countries § permitting and regulatory compliance § changes in labor supply and labor relations § adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in Mexico and other foreign jurisdictions § expropriation of assets § adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate § general political, social, economic and business conditions Our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. These risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. In such cases, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. We discuss litigation related to Sempra Mexico’s Energía Costa Azul LNG terminal, Termoeléctrica de Mexicali power generation facility and other international energy projects in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Other Risks Sempra Energy has substantial investments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. Sempra Energy is a partner with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc in RBS Sempra Commodities LLP (RBS Sempra Commodities), a commodities-marketing firm, which divested substantially all of its businesses and assets in 2010 and early 2011, as we discuss in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. The investment balance of $126 million at December 31, 2012 reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the partnership as it is dissolved. The timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to RBS Sempra Commodities in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. In addition, amounts may be retained by the partnership for an extended period of time to help offset unanticipated future general and administrative costs necessary to complete the dissolution of the partnership. We have guaranteed various obligations of businesses previously owned and operated by RBS Sempra Commodities, as we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. The failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the partnership could have a corresponding effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. As described above, SDG&E holds a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, which is operated by Edison. Also, Sempra Natural Gas owns a 25-percent interest in Rockies Express Pipeline LLC (Rockies Express), a joint venture that operates a natural gas pipeline. Our investment in Rockies Express is $361 million at December 31, 2012. Rockies Express is controlled by Tallgrass Energy Partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. At December 31, 2012, Sempra Renewables has investments totaling $592 million in several joint ventures to develop and operate renewable generation facilities. Sempra Mexico owns a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with PEMEX that operates two natural gas pipelines and a propane system in northern Mexico. At December 31, 2012, this investment is $340 million. We also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage, or in which we share control, totaling $97 million at December 31, 2012. We continue to make such investments. We discuss these investments further in Notes 3, 4 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Sempra Natural Gas is currently progressing with plans to develop its Cameron LNG regasification facility for liquefaction capability in a joint venture structure with three partners. We discuss these plans further in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Influencing Future Performance” in the Annual Report. We have limited influence over these and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. In addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 