ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose some or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We had losses since our inception and expect losses to continue in the future. We may never become profitable. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. We experienced net losses of $5,321,624 for the year ended December 31, 2003, $10,245,833 for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $16,565,668 for the year ended December 31, 2005. We have generated significant net losses in recent periods, and experienced negative cash flows from operations in the amount of $4,069,735 for the year ended December 31, 2003, $13,763,396 for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $18,296,127 for the year ended 2005. In recent years, some of the losses were incurred as a result of investments in new product development, inefficiencies while we built up our operations and marketing costs. While we have increased our investments, most notably in inventory, we anticipate that we will continue to generate net losses and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, because large portions of our expenses are fixed, we generally are unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. As a result, we may continue to experience net losses, which will make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 7 We have a limited operating history and may never achieve or sustain profitable operations. We are an early stage production company. We acquired our subsidiary, Force Protection Industries Inc (formerly Technical Solutions Group, Inc.) in July 2002 and have only recently begun generating significant revenues. We generated revenues from our current products of $6,247,285 for the year ended December 31, 2003, $10,272,757 for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $49,712,829 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The sale of our mine protected vehicles and associated spare parts provided 100% of the sales, 100% of the cost of goods sold and 100% of the loss in 2004 and 2005. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend on, among other things, successful completion of our ongoing development activities, geo-political events, ability to cost effectively manufacture and distribute our products, and the relative cost to the customer of our system as compared to alternative competitive products. Because we focus on emerging markets, market reaction can be difficult to predict. Many of our planned products incorporate technologies or approaches that have not yet achieved broad market acceptance. In addition, we have a limited history of competing in the intensely competitive defense industry. Our technology may not be successfully commercialized or marketed. As a result, we may never achieve or sustain profitable operations. Our independent accountants have issued a Going Concern Opinion and, if we do not generate enough cash from operations to sustain our business, we may have to liquidate assets or curtail our operations. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. During the year ended December 31, 2003, we incurred a net loss of $5,321,624, during the year ended December 31, 2004 we incurred a net loss of $10,245,833 and during the year ended December 31, 2005 we incurred a net loss of $16,565,668. Conditions exist which raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue unless we are able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our obligations and sustain our operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we can not access sufficient funds when needed, we may not be able to meet our contractual obligations to deliver our products and our business may fail. We believe we have sufficient cash resources to continue operations at our current capacity, however in the event of an unanticipated change of circumstances, or if we secure additional orders, we could face liquidity constraints and we could require external financing to fund operations. Until we generate cash flow from operations that will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we will continue to seek alternative means for financing our operations and capital expenditures and/or postpone or eliminate certain investments or expenditures. Potential alternative means for financing may include leasing capital equipment, lines of credit, or obtaining additional debt or equity financing. When needed, additional financing may not be available, or available on acceptable terms. The inability to obtain additional financing or generate sufficient cash from operations could require us to reduce or eliminate expenditures for capital equipment, research and development, production or marketing of our products, or otherwise curtail or discontinue its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if we raise funds through the sale of additional equity securities, the common stock currently outstanding will be further diluted. We depend on our suppliers and if we can not obtain certain components for our products, we might have to develop alternative designs that could increase our costs. We depend upon a number of suppliers for components of our products. There is an inherent risk that certain components of our products will be unavailable for prompt delivery or, in some cases, discontinued. We have only limited control over any third-party manufacturer as to quality controls, timeliness of production, deliveries and various other factors. Should the availability of certain components be 8 compromised, it could force us to develop alternative designs using other components, which could add to the cost of goods sold and compromise delivery commitments. If we are unable to obtain components in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost, or at all, we may need to select new suppliers, redesign or reconstruct process we use to build the hulls and/or the vehicles, which management believes would take a minimum of one-year. We may not be able to manufacture any vehicles for a period of time, which could materially adversely affect our business, results from operations, and financial condition. We market our products to a limited customer base and if we do not find acceptance of our products within that customer base, our business may fail. Our government business depends on a limited number of customers, and if any of these customers terminate or reduce their contracts, or if we cannot obtain additional government contracts in the future, our revenues will decline and our results of operations will decrease. Because most of our consolidated revenues were derived directly or indirectly from government contractors, this risk can significantly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the twelve-months ended December 31, 2005 100% of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from two governmental agencies, the U.S. Army and the U.S. Marine Corps. We expect to continue to be dependent upon contracts with governmental agencies and their contractors for a substantial portion of revenue for the foreseeable future. Because we currently depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face certain risks, including budget restraints and fixed price contracts. General political and economic conditions, which are difficult to accurately predict, directly and indirectly affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by government agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the U.S. or other government budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations as long as research and development contracts remain an important element of the business. Obtaining government contracts may also involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development, price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each government agency also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Governmental agencies also often retain some portion of fees payable upon completion of a project and collection of these fees may be delayed for several months or even years, in some instances. In addition, an increasing number of government contracts are fixed price contracts which may prevent us from recovering costs incurred in excess of its budgeted costs. Fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate such costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event actual costs exceed the fixed contractual cost, we may not be able to recover the excess costs. Some government contracts are also subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in revenue in any given quarter. Although government contracts have provisions providing for the reimbursement of costs associated with termination, the termination of a material contract at a time when our funded backlog does not permit redeployment of staff could result in reductions of employees. In addition, the timing of payments from government contracts is also subject to significant fluctuation and potential delay, depending on the government agency involved. Any such delay could result in a temporary shortage in working capital. 9 Some of our product components are manufactured in South Africa or other foreign countries and if they become unstable or changes government regulations our costs may increase or we may become unable to source certain parts. Some of our product components are manufactured in South Africa and supplied from other foreign countries. If import tariffs or taxes increase for any reason, our cost of goods would increase. Our financial performance may be affected by changes in political, social and economic environment. The role of the central and local governments in the economy is significant. Policies toward economic liberalization, and laws and policies affecting foreign companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability to do business with suppliers based in other countries. The government could impose surcharges, increase tax rates, or revoke, terminate or suspend operating licenses without compensating us. Also, South Africa and other countries, from time to time, experience instances of civil unrest and hostilities. Confrontations have occurred between the military, insurgent forces, and civilians. If for these or any other reason, we lose our ability to sub-contract or manufacture the components to its products, or the cost of doing business increases, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to personal liability claims for our products and if our insurance is not sufficient to cover such claims, our expenses may increase substantially. We may be subject to personal liability claims and our insurance may not be adequate to cover such claims. As a result, a significant lawsuit could adversely affect our business. We may be exposed to liability for personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of the products. Any future claim against us for personal injury or property damage could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, and results of operations and result in negative publicity. Even if we are not found liable, the costs of defending a lawsuit can be high. We do not currently maintain insurance for this type of liability. Additionally, even if we do purchase insurance, we may experience legal claims outside of our insurance coverage, or in excess of our insurance coverage, or that insurance will not cover. We are subject to substantial competition and we must continue research and development to remain competitive. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win business and increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of firms, including large, multinational vehicle, defense and aerospace firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do which may make it difficult to win new contracts and we may not be able to compete successfully. Certain competitors operate fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources, as a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Moreover, we may not have sufficient resources to undertake the continuing research and development necessary to remain competitive. Competitors may attempt to independently develop similar designs or duplicate our products or designs. We or our competitors may intentionally or unintentionally infringe upon or misappropriate products or proprietary information. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time consuming and costly. Currently we have no patents. Any patent or patents sub-licensed to us relating to current or future products may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or the rights granted there-under will may not be held valid if subsequently challenged. Our products are based on technological innovation. Consequently, the life cycles of our products can be relatively short. Our 10 success depends significantly on our ability to establish and maintain a competitive position in this field. Our products may not remain competitive in light of technological developments by others. Our competitors may succeed in discovering and developing technology before we do that would render our technology, and hence our products, obsolete and noncompetitive. We must comply with environmental regulations or we may have to pay expensive penalties or clean up costs. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, and regulations regarding protection of the environment, including air, water, and soil. Our manufacturing business involves the use, handling, storage, and contracting for recycling or disposal of, hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, including environmentally sensitive materials, such as batteries, solvents, lubricants, degreasing agents, gasoline and resin. We must comply with certain requirements for the use, management, handling, and disposal of these materials. We do not maintain insurance for pollutant cleanup and removal. If we are found responsible for any hazardous contamination, we may have to pay expensive fines or penalties or perform costly clean-up. Even if we are charged, and later found not responsible, for such contamination or clean up, the cost of defending the charges could be high. If we do not comply with government regulations, we may be unable to ship our products or have to pay expensive fines or penalties. We are subject to regulation by county, state and federal governments, governmental agencies, and regulatory authorities from several different countries. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals or suffer delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, we may not be able to marketing our products and services, and generate product and service revenues. Further, we may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Although we do not anticipate problems satisfying any of the regulations involved, we cannot foresee the possibility of new regulations, which could adversely affect our business. Further our products are subject to export limitations and we may be prevented from shipping our products to certain nations or buyers. We rely on proprietary designs and rights and if we have to litigate those rights, our expenses could substantially increase. Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, on the protection of our designs and technology. In addition, our technology could infringe on patents or proprietary rights of others. We have not undertaken or conducted any comprehensive patent infringement searches or studies. If any third parties hold any conflicting rights, we may be required to stop making, using or selling our products or to obtain licenses from and pay royalties to others. Further, in such event, we may not be able to obtain or maintain any such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. We may need to engage in future litigation to enforce intellectual property rights or the rights of customers, to protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including customers. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Insiders can exert significant control over our policies and affairs and they may assert control in a manner that does not favor minority shareholders. As of December 31, 2005 our Directors and Executive Officers in the aggregate, beneficially owned shares equal to 17.6% of our outstanding common stock. These shareholders, if acting together, would be able to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including amendments to our Articles of Incorporation, fundamental corporate transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, the sale of the company, and other matters involving the direction of our business and affairs. As a result, although other shareholders may vote their shares, they may have only limited influence on our business and management. We depend on management and other key personnel and we may not be able to execute our business plan without their services. Our success and our business strategy depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management and operating personnel. Such individuals are in high demand and are often subject to competing employment offers. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees. We do not presently maintain “key man” insurance on any employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional, experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be able to hire them when required, or have the ability to attract and retain them. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK “Penny Stock” rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult. Trading in our securities is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock” rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities. Our securities have been thinly traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board, which may not provide liquidity for our investors. Our securities are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ Stock Market or national or regional exchanges. Securities traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are usually thinly traded, highly volatile, have fewer market makers and are not followed by analysts. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s order handling rules, which apply to NASDAQ-listed securities, do not apply to securities quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Quotes for stocks included on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are not listed in newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of our securities may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original acquisition price, or at any price. 12 Investors must contact a broker-dealer to trade over-the-counter bulletin board securities. As a result, you may not be able to buy or sell our securities at the times that you may wish. Even though our securities are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may not permit our investors to sell securities when and in the manner that they wish. Because there are no automated systems for negotiating trades on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, they are conducted via telephone. In times of heavy market volume, the limitations of this process may result in a significant increase in the time it takes to execute investor orders. Therefore, when investors place market orders an order to buy or sell a specific number of shares at the current market price it is possible for the price of a stock to go up or down significantly during the lapse of time between placing a market order and its execution. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future; therefore, you may never see a return on your investment. We do not anticipate the payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any profits from our operations will be devoted to our future operations. Any decision to pay dividends will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available and other factors. Therefore, you may never see a return on your investment. Investors who anticipate a need for immediate income from their investment should not purchase the company’s securities. Our stock price is volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares for more than what you paid. Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility, and you may not be able to sell shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. From January 2005 to December 2005, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $0.69 per share and as high as $3.60 per share (using post-reverse-split share prices) The market price of the common stock could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in operating results; our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; changes in investor perceptions; and new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors. The stock market in general has continued to experience volatility which may further affect our stock price. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. 