Item 1A. Risk Factors Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations, and if our future results are below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If revenue or other financial results fall below ours or investor expectations, we may not be able to increase our revenue or reduce our spending rapidly in response to the shortfall. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include those described below and elsewhere in this report: •The effect of global economic conditions on customers and partners, including the level of discretionary IT spending; •Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; •The rate of new and renewed subscriptions for our services, particularly large customers; •The amount and timing of any reductions or increases by our customers in their usage of our products and services; •Our ability to increase the number of Web sites we measure and the scope of products and services we offer our existing customers in a particular quarter; •The timing, customer acceptance and service period of orders received during a quarter, especially from new customers; •Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and services; •Our ability to generate revenues from our DeviceAnywhere acquisition; •The level of sales of our Mobile Cloud and our recently-acquired DeviceAnywhere products and services and the timing of customer acceptance during the period; •The timing and amount of engagement services revenue, which is difficult to predict because of its dependence on the number of engagements in any given period, the size of these engagements, and our ability to continue our existing engagements and secure new engagements from customers; •Disruptions to our global monitoring network infrastructure; •The timing and amount of operating costs, including unforeseen or unplanned operating expenses, sales and marketing investments, changes in headcount and capital expenditures; •Seasonal factors, such as with respect to sales of our LoadPro services which are typically higher in our first fiscal quarter due to customers preparing their Web sites for the holiday buying season; •Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies; •The timing and amount, if any, of impairment charges related to potential write down of acquired assets in acquisitions or charges related to the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions; and •The cost associated with and the integration of acquisitions, including the DeviceAnywhere acquisition that closed immediately after our year end, or divestures. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public-market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. 15 Table of Contents Our business, operating results and financial condition are susceptible to additional risks associated with international operations. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, European economic contagion, political instability, tax laws (including United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries and the negative tax implications related to moving cash from international locations to the United States), and changes in the value of the United States dollar versus foreign currencies. In addition, net revenue from and margins on sales of our products and services in foreign countries could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly the Euro as a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in Euros. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate mainly to non-United States dollar denominated sales in Europe, as well as non-United States dollar denominated cash balances and operating expenses incurred throughout the world. As was the case in recent years, volatility of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar may adversely affect the United States dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated cash, sales and earnings. International sales in dollars were approximately 51%, 45% and 45% of our net revenue for the years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect to continue to commit significant resources to our international activities. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks we do not face in the United States. These include: •Currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily the Euro; •Seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns; •Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •Maintaining and servicing measurement computers in distant locations; •Longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •Difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; •Potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; •Difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights in some countries; and •Political or economic instability, war or terrorism in the countries where we are doing business. The success of our business depends on maintaining a large customer base, either by customers renewing their subscriptions for our products and services and purchasing additional products and services or by obtaining new customers. To maintain and grow our revenue, we must maintain or increase the overall size of our customer base, either through maintaining high customer renewal rates, obtaining new customers for our products and services, and/or selling additional products and services to existing customers. Our customers have no obligation to renew our products and services after the contract term and, therefore, they could cease using our products and services at any time. In addition, customers that renew may contract for fewer product and services or at lower prices. Further, our customers may reduce their usage levels of our products and services during the term of their subscription. We cannot project the level of renewal rates or the prices at which customers renew subscriptions. The size of our customer base and prices may decline as a result of a number of factors, including competition, consolidations in the Internet or mobile industries or if a significant number of our customers cease operations. 16 Table of Contents Additionally, sales of our products and services may decline as companies evaluate their technology spending in response to the global economic environment. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, reduced spending, cancellations, and non-renewals by our customers. If we experience reduced renewal rates or if customers renew for a lesser amount of our products and services, or if customers, at any time, reduce the amount of products or services they purchase from us for any reason, our revenue could decline unless we are able to obtain additional customers or sources of revenue, sufficient to replace lost revenue. If our Mobile Cloud products and services decline, we may not be able to grow our revenue and our results of operations will be harmed. Revenue from our Mobile Cloud products and services was $49.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2011. Future growth for these products and services could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the difficulty in predicting demand; customer acceptance of installed systems; customer acceptance of our new DeviceAnywhere products and services; currency rate fluctuations; global economic conditions; and our ability to successfully compete against current or new competitors in this market. Our business and our operating results could be harmed if we are not able to continue to grow revenue from our Mobile Cloud products and services. The inability of our products and services to perform properly could result in loss of or delay in revenue, injury to our reputation or other harm to our business. We offer complex products and services, which may not perform at the level our customers expect. Despite our testing, upgrades to our existing or future products and services may not perform as expected due to unforeseen problems, which could result in loss of or delay in revenue, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs or increased service costs. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, acquire, rather than develop internally, some of our products and services. These problems could also result in tort or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from any claims through warranty disclaimers and liability-limitation clauses in our customer agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Furthermore, although we maintain errors and omissions insurance, this insurance coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. If a court refused to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arose that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, we could be required to pay damages. A disruption to our global monitoring network infrastructure could impair our ability to serve and retain existing customers or attract new customers. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our data centers, which store and distribute all data collected from our global monitoring network. We currently serve our customers from facilities located in San Mateo, California; Plano, Texas; and Nuremburg, Germany. Our primary operations center is located at our corporate headquarters in San Mateo, California. Our primary operations center is susceptible to earthquakes, other natural disasters and possible power outages and our facilities in Texas and Germany are generally susceptible to natural disasters. Natural disasters affecting large geographic areas or that cause severe damage could also negatively impact demand for our products and services from customers. We have occasionally experienced outages in the past and, if we experience outages at our operations centers in the future, we might not be able to promptly receive data from our measurement computers and we might not be able to deliver our products and services to our customers on a timely basis. 17 Table of Contents Although we maintain insurance against fires, earthquakes and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. If our operations centers are damaged, this could disrupt our products and services, which could impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Our operations systems are also vulnerable to damage from break-ins, computer viruses, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Any outage for any period of time or loss of customer data could cause us to lose customers. Individuals who attempt to breach our network security, such as hackers, could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our products and services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to breach our network security. In addition to intentional security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. We may face difficulties assimilating, and may incur costs associated with, any future acquisitions. We have completed several acquisitions in the past and recently closed the acquisition of DeviceAnywhere. As a part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire or invest in additional businesses, products or technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities, or may otherwise offer growth opportunities. The recent and future acquisitions could create risks for us, including: •Difficulties in assimilating acquired personnel, operations and technologies; •Unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition or incurring of additional unknown liabilities; •Diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •Difficulties in marketing additional services to the acquired companies' customer base or to our customer base; •Adverse effects on existing business relationships with resellers of products and services, customers and other business partners; •The need to integrate or enhance the systems of an acquired business; •Impairment charges related to potential write down of acquired assets in acquisitions; •Entry in new businesses in which we have little direct experience; •Difficulties in managing a larger organization with geographically dispersed operations; •Failure to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and •Use of substantial portions of our available cash, or dilution in equity if stock is used, to consummate the acquisition and/or operate the acquired business. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of a major customer could harm our operating results. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 30%, 31% and 34% of our net revenue for the years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, will renew, will not cancel or will not reduce the usage of our products and services and, therefore, continue to generate revenue in any future period. In addition, our customers that have monthly renewal arrangements may terminate their contract at any time with little or no penalty. If we lose a major customer or group of customers, our revenue could decline. 18 Table of Contents We have incurred in the past and may, in the future, incur losses, and we may not sustain profitability. While we were profitable in the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net losses in fiscal 2008 and in other prior fiscal years. As of September 30, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $87.1 million. If we are not able to maintain our current revenue levels or increase our revenue, it may be difficult to sustain profitability. In addition, we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of September 30, 2011, we had $1.7 million of net identifiable intangible assets and $62.5 million of goodwill. Our recent acquisition of DeviceAnywhere will increase the recorded amount of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. We may in the future incur impairment charges in connection with a write down of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets due to changes in market conditions. In addition, we have deferred tax assets which may not be fully realized, which may contribute to additional losses. As a result of these and other conditions, we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. Our investment in sales and marketing may not yield increased customers or revenue. We have invested and intend to continue investing in our sales and marketing activities to help grow our business, including hiring additional domestic and international sales personnel. Typically, additional sales personnel can take time before they become productive, and our marketing programs may also take time before they yield additional business, if any. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful, or that these investments will yield significantly increased revenue in the near or long-term. Our business could be harmed by adverse economic conditions or reduced spending on information technology. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions, especially the United States and Europe. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses have reduced and may continue to reduce spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. A decrease in consumer demand also could have a variety of negative effects on our customers' demand for our products and services. Other factors that could influence demand include labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, and in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, and lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. In addition, real estate values across the United States have been adversely affected by the global economic downturn and tighter credit conditions, and we cannot assure you that the value of our building will not be affected by these conditions. We must retain qualified personnel in a competitive marketplace, or we may not be able to grow our business. We may be unable to retain our key employees, namely our management team and experienced engineers, or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees. Despite the current unemployment rate, there is substantial competition for highly skilled employees, especially in the San Francisco area. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. If the market does not accept our engagement services, our results of operations could be harmed. Engagement services revenue represented approximately 10%, 11% and 12% of net revenue for the years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We will need to successfully market these services in order to maintain or increase engagement services revenue. The market for these services is very competitive. Each engagement typically spans a one month to twelve month period and, therefore, it is more difficult for us to predict the amount of engagement services revenue recognized in any particular 19 Table of Contents quarter. Our business and operating results could be harmed if we cannot maintain or increase our engagement services revenue. We face competition that could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. The market for our products and services is rapidly evolving. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of their products and services. We face competition from companies that offer Internet and mobile software and services with features similar to our products and services such as Compuware, Hewlett-Packard, Neustar, SmartBear and a variety of other Internet and mobile companies that offer a combination of testing, quality assurance, market research and data collection services. Customers could choose to use these companies' products and services or these companies could enhance their products and services to offer all of the features we offer. As we expand the scope of our products and services, we expect to encounter many additional market-specific competitors. In addition, there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, Compuware acquired Gomez and dynaTrace software, CA Technologies acquired WatchMouse, Hewlett-Packard acquired Mercury Interactive, SmartBear acquired AlertSite and Neustar acquired Webmetrics. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could also lead to fewer customers and partners, with the effect that the loss of a major customer could harm our revenue. We could also face competition from other companies, which currently do not offer products and services similar to ours, but offer software or services related to Web analytics services, such as Webtrends, Adobe Systems (which acquired Omniture) and IBM (which acquired Coremetrics), and free services that measure Web site availability. In addition, companies that sell systems management software, such as BMC Software, Compuware, CA NSM, HP Software, Quest Software, Attachmate, Precise Software, and IBM's Tivoli Unit, may decide to offer products and services similar to ours. While we have relationships with some of these companies, they could choose to develop products and services similar to ours or to offer our competitors' services. We face competition for our mobile products and services from companies such as Ascom (which acquired Argogroup), JDS Uniphase (which acquired Casabyte), ADECEF and Datamat. In the future, we intend to expand our product and service offerings and continue to measure, test and manage the performance of emerging technologies which could face competition from other companies. Some of our existing and future competitors have or may have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition in similar businesses, and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and to devote substantially more resources to technology and systems development. There are many experienced firms that offer computer network and Internet-related consulting services. These consulting services providers include consulting companies, such as Accenture, as well as consulting divisions of large technology companies, such as IBM. Because this area is very competitive, and we have limited resources dedicated to delivering engagement services, we may not succeed in selling these services. Increased competition may result in price reductions, increased costs of providing our products and services and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. 20 Table of Contents If we do not continually improve our products and services in response to technological changes, including changes to the Internet and mobile networks, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. The ongoing evolution of Internet and mobile networks has led to the development of new technologies and communications protocols, such as Internet telephony, wireless devices, Wi-Fi networks, HSDPA and LTE, as well as increased use of various applications, such as VoIP, mobile applications and video. These developing technologies require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to offerings by our competitors. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new products and services that respond to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. The success of new products and services depends on several factors, including proper definition of the scope and timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. If new Internet, mobile, networking or telecommunication technologies or standards are widely adopted or if other technological changes occur, we may need to expend significant resources to adapt to these developments or we could lose market share or some of our products and services could become obsolete. The market price of our common stock can be volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and has recently experienced substantial volatility that has affected the market prices of technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. The market for our common stock has been subject to similar fluctuations. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of events affecting other companies in the technology industry, currency fluctuations and general market events and conditions may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, because of the relatively low trading volume and the fact that we only have approximately 17.3 million shares outstanding at September 30, 2011, our stock price could be more volatile than companies with higher trading volumes and larger numbers of shares available for trading in the public market. If we do not complement our direct sales force with relationships with other companies to help market our products and services, we may not be able to grow our business. To increase sales worldwide, we must complement our direct sales force with relationships with other companies to help market and sell our products and services to their customers. We currently have relationships with several Open Application Performance Monitoring ("Open APM") partners and SITE system resellers. Additionally, DeviceAnywhere has reseller partner relationships with third parties to resell its products. If we are unable to maintain our existing marketing, reseller and distribution relationships, or fail to enter into additional relationships, we may have to devote substantially more resources to direct sales and marketing efforts. We would also lose anticipated revenue from customer referrals and other co-marketing benefits. In the past, we have had to terminate relationships with some of our international resellers, and we may be required to terminate other reseller relationships in the future. As a result, we may have to commit resources to supplement our direct sales effort or to find additional resellers, especially in foreign countries. Our success will also depend in part on the ability of these companies to help market and sell our products and services. Our existing relationships do not, and any future relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. Therefore, these companies could reduce their commitment to us at any time in the future. Many of these companies have multiple relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their business. In addition, these companies generally may terminate their 21 Table of Contents relationships with us, pursue other relationships with our competitors, or develop or acquire products or services that compete with our services. Even if we succeed in entering into these relationships, they may not result in additional customers or revenue. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed through various banks around the world and we may realize losses on these. We maintain our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments with a number of financial institutions around the world, and our results could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as other investments; and interest rates. The volatility in the financial markets and overall economic conditions increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our investments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. If the protection of our proprietary technology is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our market share could decline. Our success is heavily dependent on our ability to create proprietary technology and to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in that technology, as well as our ability to defend against adverse claims of third parties with respect to our technology and intellectual property. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, and patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products and services or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and unauthorized third parties, including our competitors, may independently develop similar or superior technology, duplicate or reverse engineer aspects of our products and services, or design around our patented technology or other intellectual property. There can be no assurance or guarantee that any products, services or technologies that we are presently developing, or will develop in the future, will result in intellectual property that is subject to legal protection under the laws of the United States or a foreign jurisdiction and that produces a competitive advantage for us. Others might bring infringement claims which could harm our business. There is significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could become subject to intellectual property infringement claims as our products and services overlap with competitive offerings. In addition, we are, or could be, subject to other legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management's attention from operating our company. If we become liable to others for infringement of their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, to develop non- infringing technology, obtain a license to use the infringed intellectual property, or cease selling the products and services that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our measurement computers and mobile devices are located at sites that we do not own or operate, and it could be difficult for us to maintain or repair them if they do not function properly. Our measurement computers and mobile devices that we use to provide many of our products and services are located at facilities that are not owned by our customers or us. Instead, these devices are 22 Table of Contents installed at locations near various worldwide Internet and mobile access points. We do not own or operate the facilities, and we have little control over how these devices are maintained on a day-to-day basis. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with the companies that operate the facilities where our measurement computers are located. We may have to find new locations for these computers if we are unable to maintain relationships with these companies or if these companies cease their operations as some have done due to bankruptcies or being acquired. In addition, if our measurement computers and mobile devices cease to function properly, we may not be able to repair or service them on a timely basis, as we may not have immediate access to our measurement computers and measurement devices. Should performance problems arise and we are unable to quickly maintain and repair our computers and devices, our ability to collect data in a timely manner could be impaired. The success of our business depends on the continued use of Internet and mobile networks by businesses and consumers for e-business and communications and, if usage of these networks declines, our operating results and working capital would be harmed. Because our business is based on providing Internet and Mobile Cloud products and services, Internet and mobile networks must continue to be used as a means of electronic business and communications. In addition, we believe that the use of Internet and mobile networks for conducting business could be hindered for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: •Security concerns, including the potential for fraud or theft of stored data, tracking of personal data by Web site and infrastructure providers, and other information communicated over Internet and mobile networks; •Inconsistent quality of service, including outages of popular Web sites, the Internet and mobile networks; •Delay in the development or adoption of new standards; •Inability to integrate business applications with the Internet and mobile devices; and •The need to operate with multiple and frequently incompatible products. Improvements to the infrastructure of Internet and mobile networks could reduce or eliminate demand for our Internet and Mobile Cloud products and services. The demand for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated if future improvements to the infrastructure of Internet or mobile networks lead companies to conclude that the measurement and evaluation of their performance is no longer important to their business. We believe that the vendors and operators that supply and manage the underlying infrastructure still look to improve the speed, availability, reliability and consistency of Internet and mobile networks. If these vendors and operators succeed in significantly improving the performance of these networks, which would result in corresponding improvements in the performance of companies' Web sites, mobile networks and services, demand for our products and services would likely decline, which would harm our operating results. If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill, our net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. We had $62.5 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2011 and will record additional goodwill in the quarter ending December 31, 2011 as a result of the acquisition of DeviceAnywhere. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair market value of net assets acquired in a business combination. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at September 30th of each year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it could indicate a decline in our value and would require us to 23 Table of Contents evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. If we determine that our goodwill has been impaired and we were required to write down all or a significant portion of our goodwill, our operating results and net worth could be materially adversely affected. If we need to raise additional capital and are unable to do so, our business could be harmed. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will enable us to meet our capital and operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if cash is required for unanticipated needs or acquisitions, we may need additional capital during that period. If the market for our products develops at a slower pace than anticipated, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we were unable to raise additional capital when required, our business could be seriously harmed. We have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. Since our initial public offering, amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws have contained provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include: •Our stockholders may take action only at a meeting and not by written consent; •Our Board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; and •Special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer or our President, not by our stockholders. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. The rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the rights plan, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock by a person or group. In addition, it is the policy of our Board of Directors that a committee consisting solely of independent directors will review the rights plan at least once every three years to consider whether maintaining the rights plan continues to be in the best interests of Keynote and our stockholders. The Board may amend the terms of the rights without the approval of the holders of the rights. Failure to maintain effective internal controls and changes to existing regulations may increase our costs and risk of noncompliance as well as adversely affect our stock price, revenue, and reported financial results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the recently-enacted Dodd-Frank Consumer Protection Act and rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and The Nasdaq Stock Market, have imposed and will impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives, including stockholder advisory votes and XBRL reporting. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Moreover, generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") are promulgated by, and are subject to the interpretation of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the SEC. New accounting guidance or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting guidance or taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Any future changes in accounting guidance or taxation rules or practices may have a significant effect on how we report our results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. In addition, a review of existing or prior accounting 24 Table of Contents practices may result in a change in previously reported amounts. For example, the FASB has recently issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition and the SEC is considering adoption of international financial reporting standards. The change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results, our ability to remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, the way we conduct our business or subject us to regulatory inquiries or litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 