Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have incurred in the past and may in the future continue to incur losses, and we may not sustain profitability. Although we have been profitable since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we experienced operating losses in each quarterly period since inception through the third quarter of fiscal 2003. We may not be able to sustain operating profitability in the future. As of September 30, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $130.0 million. In addition, we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of September 30, 2005, we had approximately $3.8 million of net identifiable intangible assets and approximately $21.2 million of goodwill. If we complete additional acquisitions in the future, we may have additional goodwill and/or identifiable intangibles and, accordingly, may incur expenses in connection with a write-down of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets due to changes in market conditions as we did in the quarter ended June 30, 2001 when we recorded an impairment charge for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets of $30.5 million in connection with our acquisitions of Velogic and Digital Content. We believe that our operating expenses could increase as they have in certain past periods. We also expect in the next fiscal year to have increased expenses due to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS No. 123R.”) As a result, we will need to increase our revenue to sustain profitability. We may not sustain a sequential quarterly increase in revenue and may never be able to regain our historic revenue growth rates. Changes in accounting rules will affect our future operating results. Financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), who interpret and create appropriate accounting regulations. A change from current accounting regulations could have a significant effect on our results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued new guidance that addresses the accounting for share-based payments, SFAS No. 123R, which will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2006. We expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R to have a material adverse affect on our results of operations by requiring us to reflect the value of share-based payments as an operating expense. The success of our business depends on customers renewing their subscriptions for our services and purchasing additional services. To maintain and grow our revenue, we must achieve and maintain high customer renewal rates for our services. Our customers have no obligation to renew our services after the term and therefore, they could cease using our services at any time. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer services or at lower prices. Further, our customers may reduce their use of our services during the term of their subscription. We cannot project the level of renewal rates or the prices at which the customer renews their subscription. Our customer renewal rates and renewal prices may decline as a result of a number of factors, including consolidations in the Internet industry or if a significant number of our customers cease operations. Further, we depend on sales to new customers and sales of additional services to our existing customers. Renewals by existing customers or purchases of our services by new customers may be limited as companies 13 Table of Contents limit or reduce their technology spending in response to uncertain economic conditions. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, cancellations, non-renewals and/or reduction in service. If we experience reduced renewal rates or if customers renew for a lesser amount of our services, or if customers, at any time, reduce the amount of services they purchase from us, our revenue could continue to decline unless we are able to obtain additional customers or sources of revenue, sufficient to replace lost revenue. Continued reductions and/or cancellations could also result in our inability to collect amounts due. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations, and if our future results are below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If revenue falls below our expectations, we may not be able to reduce our spending rapidly in response to the shortfall. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include those described below and elsewhere in this report: • The rate of new and renewed subscriptions to our services during the quarter; • The amount and timing of any reductions by our customers in their usage of our services during the quarter; • Our ability to increase the number of Web sites we measure and the scope of services we offer for our existing customers in a particular quarter; • Our ability to attract new customers in a quarter, particularly larger enterprise customers; • The timing of orders received during a quarter; • Our ability to successfully introduce new products and services to offset any reductions in revenue from services that are not as widely used; • The timing and amount of professional services revenue, which is difficult to predict because this is dependent on the number of professional services engagements in any given period, the size of these engagements, and our ability to continue our existing engagements and secure new engagements from customers; • Our success in obtaining additional professional services engagements; • The timing and amount of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to changes of our domestic and international operations infrastructure; • The timing and amount, if any, of impairment charges related to potential write-down of acquired assets in acquisitions or charges related to the amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions; and • The timing and amount, if any, of restructuring costs if we are required to further restructure our operations. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public-market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. We may face difficulties assimilating our acquisitions and may incur costs associated with any future acquisitions. We have completed several acquisitions, and as a part of our business strategy we may seek to acquire or invest in additional businesses, products or technologies that we feel could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. Future acquisitions could create risks for us, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired personnel, operations and technologies; • difficulties in managing a larger organization; 14 Table of Contents • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition or incurring of additional unknown liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • entry in new businesses in which we have little direct experience; • difficulties in marketing additional services to the acquired companies’ customer base or to our customer base; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with resellers of our service and our customers; • difficulties in managing geographically-dispersed businesses; • the need to integrate or enhance the systems of an acquired business; • impairment charges related to potential write-down of acquired assets in acquisitions; • failure to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash or dilution in equity if stock is used to consummate the acquisition and/or operate the acquired business. Our operating results could be harmed if sales of SLM subscriptions decline. Sales of our service level management subscription services, primarily our Web Site Perspective-Business Edition and Transaction Perspective services, have generated a majority of our total revenue in the past. Therefore, the success of our business currently depends, and for the immediate future will continue to substantially depend, on sales and renewals of our service level management services and customer experience management services. While total revenue has increased over the past year, our service level management subscriptions revenue has otherwise experienced declines from historic levels or has not increased significantly. If these revenue trends continue with respect to our service level management subscriptions services, our operating results could suffer if we are not able to increase revenue from other services. Improvements to the infrastructure of the Internet could reduce or eliminate demand for our Internet subscription services. The demand for our subscription services could be reduced or eliminated if future improvements to the infrastructure of the Internet lead companies to conclude that the measurement and evaluation of the performance of their Web sites is no longer important to their business. Because the inherent complexity of the Internet currently causes significant quality of service problems for e-business companies, we believe that the vendors and operators that supply and manage the underlying infrastructure still look to improve the speed, availability, reliability and consistency of the Internet. If these vendors and operators succeed in significantly improving the performance of the Internet, which would result in corresponding improvements in the performance of companies’ Web sites, demand for our services would likely decline which would harm our operating results. The inability of our services to perform properly could result in loss of or delay in revenue, injury to our reputation or other harm to our business. We offer complex services, which may not perform at the level our customers expect. We have, in the past, occasionally given credits to customers as a result of past problems with our service. Despite our testing, our existing or future services may not perform as expected due to unforeseen problems, which could result in loss of or delay in revenue, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs or increased service costs. In addition, we often acquire, rather than developed internally, some of our services. These services may not perform at the level we or our customers expect. These problems could also result in tort or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from any claims through warranty disclaimers and liability-limitation clauses in our customer 15 Table of Contents agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Furthermore, although we maintain errors and omissions insurance, this insurance coverage may not adequately cover us for claims. If a court refused to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arose that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, we could be required to pay damages. If we do not continually improve our services in response to technological changes, including changes to the Internet, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. The ongoing evolution of the Internet has led to the development of new technologies such as Internet telephony, wireless devices, wireless fidelity, and WI-FI networks. These developing technologies require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to offerings of our competitors. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new services that respond to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs, we may encounter difficulties retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We must also introduce any new services as quickly as possible. The success of new services depends on several factors, including proper definition of the scope of the new services and timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of our new services. If new Internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or standards are widely adopted or if other technological changes occur, we may need to expend significant resources to adapt our services to these developments or we could lose market share or some of our services could become obsolete. We face competition that could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. The market for our services is rapidly evolving. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services that they offer. We face competition from companies that offer SLM software and services with features similar to our services such as Mercury Interactive, Segue Software and a variety of other CEM companies that offer a combination of testing, market research capabilities and data. While we believe these services are not as comprehensive as ours, customers could still choose to use these services or these companies could enhance their services to offer all of the features we offer. As we expand the scope of our products and services, we expect to encounter many additional market-specific competitors. We could also face competition from other companies, which currently do not offer services similar to our services, but offer software or services related to Web analytics services, such as Webtrends, Omniture, Webside Story and Coremetrics, and free services that measure Web site availability. In addition, companies that sell systems management software, such as BMC Software, CompuWare, CA-Unicenter, HP-Openview, Quest Software, NetIQ, Symantec’s Precise Software, and IBM’s Tivoli Unit, with some of whom we have strategic relationships, could choose to offer services similar to ours. We also face competition for our wireless SLM services from companies such as Argogroup, Casabyte, Agilent and Mobil Complete. In the future, we intend to expand our service offerings and continue to measure and manage the performance of emerging technologies such as Internet telephony, wireless devices, and wireless fidelity, or WI-FI, networks and, as a result, could face competition from other companies. Some of our existing and future competitors have or may have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition in similar businesses, and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and to devote substantially more resources to technology and systems development. There are many experienced firms that offer computer network and Internet-related consulting services. These consulting services providers include consulting companies, such as Accenture, as well as consulting divisions of large technology companies such as IBM. Because we do not have an established reputation for delivering professional services, because this area is very competitive, and because we have limited experience in delivering professional services, we may not succeed in selling these services. 16 Table of Contents Increased competition may result in price reductions, increased costs of providing our services and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of a major customer could harm our operating results. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 35%, 34% and 30% of our total revenue for the years ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, will renew, will not cancel or will not reduce their services and, therefore, continue to generate revenue in any future period. In addition, our customers that do not have written contracts or that have monthly renewal arrangements may terminate their services at any time with little or no penalty. If we lose a major customer, our revenue could decline. If we do not complement our direct sales force with relationships with other companies to help market our services, we may not be able to grow our business. To increase sales of services worldwide, we must complement our direct sales force with relationships with companies to help market and sell our services to their customers. If we are unable to maintain our existing marketing and distribution relationships, or fail to enter into additional relationships, we may have to devote substantially more resources to the direct sale and marketing of our services. We would also lose anticipated revenue from customer referrals and other co-marketing benefits. In the past, we have had to terminate relationships with some of our international resellers, and we may be required to terminate other reseller relationships in the future. As a result, we may have to commit resources to supplement our direct sales effort in the United Kingdom, Nordic countries, Germany, and the Netherlands through the acquisition of Hudson Williams Europe. Our success depends in part on the ability of these companies to help market and sell our services. Our existing relationships do not, and any future relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. Therefore, they could reduce their commitment to us at any time in the future. Many of these companies have multiple relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their business. In addition, these companies generally may terminate their relationships with us, pursue other relationships with our competitors or develop or acquire products or services that compete with our services. Even if we succeed in entering into these relationships, they may not result in additional customers or revenue. We must retain qualified personnel in a competitive marketplace, or we may not be able to grow our business. We may be unable to retain our key employees, namely our management team and experienced engineers, or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees. In fiscal 2005, we experienced three changes in executive management. In addition, our Chief Financial Officer will be departing the Company in January 2006. Although we, and a number of other technology companies, have implemented workforce reductions, there remains substantial competition for highly skilled employees. Our key employees are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. If the market does not accept our professional services, our results of operations could be harmed. Professional services revenue represented approximately 26%, 11%, and 8% of total revenue for the years ended September 30, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Although our professional services revenue has increased recently, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue. We have added to our professional services with our acquisitions of NetRaker Corporation in April 2004, Hudson-Williams Corporation in July 2004, 17 Table of Contents Vividence Corporation in September 2004, and Hudson Williams Europe in February 2005. In the past, the cost of professional services has, at times, exceeded our professional services revenue. We will also need to successfully market these services in order to increase consulting revenue. Each professional services engagement typically spans a one- to three-month period, and therefore, it is more difficult for us to predict the amount of professional services revenue recognized in any particular quarter. The success of our business depends on the continued use of the Internet by business and consumers for e-business and communications. Because our business is based on providing SLM and CEM services, the Internet must continue to be used as a means of electronic business, or e-business, and communications. In addition, we believe that the use of the Internet for conducting business transactions could be hindered for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: • security concerns including the potential for fraud or theft of stored data and information communicated over the Internet; • inconsistent quality of service, including well-publicized outages of popular Web sites; • lack of availability of cost-effective, high-speed services; • limited numbers of local access points for corporate users; • delay in the development of enabling technologies or adoption of new standards; • inability to integrate business applications with the Internet; • the need to operate with multiple and frequently incompatible products; and • a lack of tools to simplify access to and use of the Internet. Our network infrastructure could be disrupted by a number of different occurrences, which could impair our ability to serve and retain existing customers or attract new customers. All data collected from our measurement computers are stored in and distributed from our operations center, which we maintain at a single location. Therefore, our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are located at our corporate headquarters in San Mateo, California, which is an area susceptible to earthquakes and possible power outages. Although we have a generator to provide our own source of long-term uninterruptible power, if we experience power outages at our operations center, we might not be able to promptly receive data from our measurement computers and we might not be able to deliver our services to our customers on a timely basis. Although we believe our main operations are redundant between our San Mateo and Plano, Texas datacenters, an outage at either center could lead to service interruptions. Therefore, our operations systems are vulnerable to damage from break-ins, computer viruses, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, earthquakes and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. If our operations center is damaged, this could disrupt our services, which could impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. If our computer infrastructure is not functioning properly, we may not be able to deliver our services in a timely or accurate manner. We have occasionally experienced outages of our service in the past, which have typically lasted no more than a few hours. These outages have been caused by a variety of factors including electrical distribution equipment malfunctions, operator error, the failure of a back-up computer to operate when the primary computer ceased functioning and power outages due to our previous facility’s being inadequately equipped to house our operations center. Any outage for any period of time or loss of customer data could cause us to lose customers. 18 Table of Contents Individuals who attempt to breach our network security, such as hackers, could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. Although in the past, we had a breach of our security through what appears to be unauthorized access to certain data belonging to one of our customers, we have not yet experienced any breaches of our network security or sabotage that has prevented us from serving our customers. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to breach our network security. In addition to intentional security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Our measurement computers are located at sites that we do not own or operate, and it could be difficult for us to maintain or repair them if they do not function properly. Our measurement computers that we use to provide many of our services are located at facilities that are not owned by our customers or us. Instead, these computers are installed at locations near various Internet access points worldwide. Although we operate these computers remotely from our San Mateo, California operations center, we do not own or operate the facilities, and we have little control over how these computers are maintained on a day-to-day basis. We do not have long-term contractual relationships with the companies that operate the facilities where our measurement computers are located. We may have to find new locations for these computers if we are unable to develop relationships with these companies or if these companies cease their operations as some have done due to bankruptcies or are acquired. In addition, if our measurement computers cease to function properly, we may not be able to repair or service these computers on a timely basis, as we may not have immediate access to our measurement computers. Our ability to collect data in a timely manner could be impaired if we are unable to maintain and repair our computers should performance problems arise. Others might bring infringement claims against us or our suppliers that could harm our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could become subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our services overlap with competitive offerings. In addition, we are also subject to other legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management’s attention from operating our company. If we become liable to others for infringement of their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop noninfringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the services that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our business will be susceptible to additional risks associated with international operations. We believe we must expand the sales of our services outside the United States. Although we completed our first international acquisition in February 2005, to date, we have little experience with direct sales outside the United States, and we may not succeed in these efforts. International sales were approximately 8%, 6% and 6% of our total revenue for the years ended September 30, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. We intend to expand the sales of our services by selling directly to certain customers and through resellers to other customers. Therefore, we expect to continue to commit our resources to expand our international sales and marketing activities. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks we do not face in the United States. These include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • maintaining and servicing computer hardware in distant locations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 19 Table of Contents • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The Internet may not be used as widely in other countries and the adoption of e-business may evolve slowly or may not evolve at all. As a result, we may not be successful in selling our services to customers in markets outside the United States. Our future operating results could be harmed if we are unable to lease a major portion of the space in our corporate headquarters building or if the fair value of this property decreases further. We currently do not occupy or lease approximately 60% of our headquarters building in San Mateo, California. Since we have purchased this space, we have only been able to lease a small amount of this excess space. We may be unable to lease all or a part of the available space, and if it is leased, we may not receive sufficiently high rental rates to cover our building operating costs. In addition, we have previously incurred a charge for the write-down of the building, and, if the real estate market continues to deteriorate, we may incur charges for future write-downs. Any such charge could harm our results of operations. Compliance with new rules and regulations concerning corporate governance may increase our costs and could harm our results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which was signed into law in July 2002, mandated, among other things, that companies adopt new corporate governance measures and imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, thorough reviews and attestations of our internal controls and imposes increased civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers and chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. In addition, The Nasdaq Stock Market, on which our common stock is listed, has also adopted additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased costs of compliance which could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations. We also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties as a result of these developments. As a result, we may have difficultly attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting and not by written consent; • our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; and • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer or our President, not by our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. The rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the rights plan, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock by a person or group. In addition, it is the policy of our board of directors that a committee consisting solely of independent directors will review the rights plan at least once every three years to consider whether maintaining the rights plan continues to be in the best interests of Keynote and our stockholders. The board may amend the terms of the rights without the approval of the holders of the rights. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could also lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could harm our revenue. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements could be impaired and any failure to maintain our internal controls and provide accurate financial statements could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. One or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting could occur or be identified in the future. For example, as set forth in Item 9A of this report, we had a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that existed as of September 30, 2005 with respect to our accounting for income taxes. In addition, because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, and any projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or meet our reporting obligation and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. Our future operating results could be harmed if tax audits result in material differences between that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. Although we believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments of tax reserves are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax benefits or provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. Due to the complexity involved, we are not able to estimate the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of amounts recorded, which could adversely affect our future operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 Table of Contents 