D. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our registered shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”). Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete and for many other reasons, including the following: • Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. In addition, a significant portion of our quarterly retail sales can occur in the last month of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. • We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to adjust our costs in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can produce an impact on our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, whereas we have significant transactions in other currencies. Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currencies impact our global pricing strategy resulting in our lowering or raising selling prices in a currency in order to avoid disparity with U.S. dollar prices and to respond to currency-driven competitive pricing actions. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause volatility in the price of our registered shares and ADSs. If we do not introduce successful products in a timely manner, our business and operating results could suffer. The personal peripherals industry is characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. The success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to: • anticipate technology, market trends and consumer demands; • develop innovative and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner; and • distinguish our products from those of our competitors. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. For example, if we do not address the consumer trend toward notebooks by timely developing products to support the continued growth of the notebook market segment, our sales could be adversely impacted in future periods. Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on product mix, customers and other factors. We have a diversified product portfolio of over 200 different personal peripherals for PCs and other digital platforms. We sell these products through a worldwide network of domestic and international distributors, retailers, and OEM customers. Our gross margins vary significantly by product line and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, or to lower-margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. For example, gross margins in the audio category are lower than the Company’s other core product categories. Overall gross margins in recent quarters has been adversely impacted in part due to the increase in audio sales as a percentage of total sales. If audio sales continue to increase as a percentage of total sales, overall gross margins will be adversely impacted to the extent that gross margin improvements in the audio category, if any, are unable to offset this decrease. Similarly, our gross margins are generally lower for sales to OEM customers compared with sales to our retail customers. Increases in OEM sales or decreases in retail sales relative to total sales may also negatively impact our gross margins. Gross margins can also vary due to consumer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. The impact of the above on gross margins can create fluctuations in operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of the registered shares and ADSs. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our industry is intensely competitive. It is characterized by short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail market, and a trend of declining average selling prices in the OEM market. We continue to experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, and we may choose to adjust prices or increase other promotional activities to improve our competitive position. We may also encounter more competition if any of our competitors decides to enter other markets in which we currently operate. In addition, we have been expanding the categories of products we sell, and entering new markets, such as the market for programmable remote controls. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories, as well as future ones we might enter. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. We expect continued pressure in our retail business, particularly in the terms and conditions that our competitors offer customers, which may be more favorable than our terms. Future market conditions, product transitions, and initiatives by our competitors may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs and could impact our revenues and operating margins. Corded and Cordless. Microsoft is our main competitor in retail cordless (mice and desktops) and corded (mice and keyboards) categories. Microsoft’s offerings include a complete line of mice, keyboards and desktops. Microsoft has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. We continue to encounter aggressive pricing practices, promotions, and channel marketing on a worldwide basis from Microsoft, which will continue to impact our revenues and margins. We are also experiencing competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless mice and desktops from less-established brands, in the lower-price segments, which could potentially impact our market share. The emerging Notebook peripheral segment is also an area where we face new competitors that have broader Notebook product offerings, as well as aggressive pricing and promotions. Microsoft is a leading producer of operating systems and applications with which our mice and keyboards are designed to operate. As a result, Microsoft may be able to improve the functionality of its mice and keyboards to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems and software applications, for example the expected Vista operating system launch expected in early 2007, before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer. Video. Our main competitor in the U.S. for PC web cameras is Creative Labs, which offers a complete line of PC web cameras. In Europe, our main competitors are Creative Labs and Philips. In view of the rapid growth of this market, we expect additional competitors, including major players such as Microsoft, to enter this category in the near future. We continue to encounter aggressive pricing practices, promotions, and channel marketing on a worldwide basis from Creative Labs, which will continue to impact our revenues and margins. We are also experiencing ongoing competition from less-established providers of PC web cameras that are seeking shelf space and increased market share through price competition. Gaming. Competitors for our interactive entertainment products include Intec, Mad Catz, Pelican Accessories and Saitek Industries. Our cordless controllers for PlayStation®2 also compete against corded controllers offered by Sony. In addition, our cordless controllers for Microsoft Xbox™ are competing against Microsoft corded controllers. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Audio. Competitors in audio devices vary by product line. In the PC, mobile entertainment and communication platform speaker business, competitors include Altec Lansing, Creative Labs and Bose Corporation. In the PC and console headset, telephony and microphone business, our main competitors include Plantronics and its Altec Lansing subsidiary. Advanced Remote Controls. With our acquisition of Intrigue Technologies in May 2004, we expanded our product portfolio to include a new line of personal peripheral devices for home entertainment systems. We have greatly expanded our market share in this business recently. With many companies offering universal remote controls, our success will likely attract more competition. Our competitors include, among others, Philips, Universal Remote, Universal Electronics, RCA and Sony. If we do not continue to distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features, design, and services, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be harmed. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our revenues could decline. If we do not continue to improve our product demand forecasting our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of demand for our products to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from many of our customers, they are not always obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our retail products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. We have rapidly and significantly expanded the number and types of products we sell, and the geographic markets in which we sell them, and we will endeavor to further expand our product portfolio and sales reach. The growth of our product portfolio and our sales markets has increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products and expect differences to arise in the future. If we do not continue to improve the accuracy of our forecasts our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our business depends in part on access to third party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In recent years we have expanded our product portfolio to include products designed for use with third party platforms such as the Apple iPod, Microsoft Xbox™, Sony Playstation, and the Sony PSP. The growth of our business is in part due to sales of these products. However, our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, which can be withdrawn, denied or not be available on terms acceptable to us. For example, to date Microsoft has not licensed us, or any other manufacturer, to produce third party wireless peripherals for use with their new Xbox 360™ gaming console. Our access to third party platforms may require our paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins, or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third party platforms or technologies 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements used to interact with our product portfolio can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. For example, when Apple changed the connector for the iPod with the release of the iPod Nano without notice to us, we experienced increased inventories and lower prices than we had anticipated on headset products we had designed for use with the iPod. If we are unable to access third party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not successfully introduce and market products for notebook PCs our business and results of operations may suffer. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform, a market that is dynamically changing as a result of the increasing popularity of notebook products over desktop PCs. In our OEM channel, this shift could adversely affect our sales of OEM mice, which are sold with name-brand desktop PCs. Our OEM mice sales have historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales, and our OEM sales accounted for 12% and 13% of total revenues during fiscal year 2006 and 2005. If the desktop PC market continues to experience slower growth or decline, and if we do not successfully grow our non-mouse OEM business, our OEM revenues could be adversely affected. In our retail channels, the impact of the growing popularity of notebook PCs is uncertain, but may result in a decreased need by consumers for keyboards. This could adversely affect our sales of keyboards and desktops (mouse and keyboard combination). If we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce products for the notebook PC, consumers may decrease purchases of our products, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business could be negatively impacted by delays and complications resulting from our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system. We use enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) software in the operation of our business and maintenance of business and financial data related to our daily operations. We are in the process of upgrading this software, and we anticipate transitioning to a new version in the second quarter of fiscal 2007. If the upgrade is materially delayed, or if we are unable to effectively implement the new software, we may be unable to timely or accurately process or access business and financial information stored on the system, which could adversely impact our daily operations and the timely reporting of financial results. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that public companies in the United States evaluate and report on their systems of internal controls over financial reporting. Further, Section 404 requires the company’s independent public accountants to attest to and report on management’s evaluation of those controls. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 until our fiscal year ending March 31, 2007. We are currently in the process of documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting to comply with these requirements. We are also in the process of upgrading our ERP software. Both efforts require substantial time and resources to successfully complete. In addition, the timing of the ERP implementation has a significant impact on the potential cost of the compliance effort. We have recently experienced delays in the ERP implementation. If the ERP implementation is further delayed and the time period available to assess and evaluate internal control effectiveness is shortened, our compliance costs could increase substantially and our ability to timely complete our evaluation of our internal controls may be impacted. We have committed substantial time and resources to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls and to implement ERP software. During these processes, we have identified deficiencies and may identify others in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. Our 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements evaluation and testing is ongoing, and there can be no assurance that we will not identify further deficiencies that would require remediation. If we are not able to remediate identified deficiencies in a timely manner that either alone or together constitute material weaknesses in our internal controls, we will not be able to determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and comply with Section 404 in a timely manner. This could result in a negative perception of the reliability of our financial statements and subsequently a decline in the price of our securities. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that country. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China. Our manufacturing operations in Suzhou, China could be severely impacted by evolving interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, by strains on Chinese energy, transportation, communications, trade, public health and other infrastructures, by conflicts, embargoes, increased tensions or escalation of hostilities between China and Taiwan, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our Suzhou facilities are managed by several of our key Taiwanese expatriate employees. The loss of these employees, either voluntarily or as a consequence of deterioration in relations between China and Taiwan, could diminish the productivity and effectiveness of our Suzhou manufacturing operations. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the Chinese yuan renminbi (“CNY”), the local currency of China. In recent years, China has been under international pressure to revalue its currency, which certain of its trading partners assert is undervalued. In July 2005, the Chinese government restructured the country’s exchange rate system, pegging the CNY to a basket of currencies rather than just the U.S. dollar. In the months following the revaluation, the CNY appreciated 2% against the U.S. dollar. While the revaluation continues to limit the CNY to float within a narrow percentage band each day, we believe that the change to a more flexible system based on a basket of foreign currencies could lead to a further, gradual rise in the CNY’s value. Significant future appreciation of the CNY could increase our component and other raw material costs, as well as our labor costs and could adversely affect our financial results. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be harmed if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components were to be delayed or constrained, we may be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, or our new and existing product shipments could be delayed, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, in the second half of fiscal year 2006 we were unable to meet demand for our V400 laser cordless mouse for notebooks resulting in lost sales, because of the inability of a supplier to provide us with a critical component. Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages. We continue to experience extended lead times on semiconductors and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We increasingly rely on third parties to manufacture our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacture and distribution of our products, we may have insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand and we could lose sales, or we may experience a build-up in inventory. We rely on commercial air freight carriers, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies and other transportation companies for the movement of our products. Consequently, our ability to ship products to our distribution centers could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity. The logistics and supply chain infrastructure in China, where our products are manufactured, has not kept pace with the rapid expansion of China’s economy, resulting in periodic capacity constraints in the transportation of goods. If we are unable to secure cost-effective freight resources in a timely manner, we could incur incremental costs to expedite delivery, which could adversely affect our gross margins, and we could experience delays in bringing our products to market, resulting in lost product sales or the accumulation of excess inventory. Air and ground transportation costs remain under upward pressure primarily due to high fuel costs. Further increases in the worldwide cost of fuel could result in higher transportation costs which could adversely affect gross margins. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last month of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely impact our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. We conduct operations in a number of countries and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. We conduct operations in a number of countries. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; • exposure to political and financial instability, leading to currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; • exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • difficulties or increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, particularly in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia; • changes in value-added tax (“VAT”) or VAT reimbursement; • imposition of currency exchange controls; and • delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be issued. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. Our effective tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in management’s assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. The amount of income taxes we pay could be subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. If our effective tax rate increases in future periods, our operating results could be adversely affected. 