D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition The seasonality and cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and periodic overcapacity make us particularly vulnerable to significant and sometimes prolonged economic downturns. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant downturns. Since most of our customers operate in semiconductor-related industries, variations in order levels from our customers can result in volatility in our revenues and earnings. Because our business is, and will continue to be, largely dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for our services, downturns in the semiconductor industry will lead to reduced demand for our services. For example, the semiconductor industry experienced a period of economic downturn beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000 until early 2003, due to a number of factors including a slowdown in the global economy, overcapacity in the semiconductor industry and a worldwide inventory adjustment. As a result of the downturn, our net operating revenues for 2001 decreased 39.6% 7 Table of Contents from 2000 and for 2002 increased only slightly by 8.0% from 2001. We incurred a net income of NT$7,072 million for 2002 compared to a net loss of NT$3,157 million for 2001. The semiconductor industry recovered from the downturn in early 2003 but again experienced a slowdown from the third quarter of 2005 until early 2006 due to industry-wide inventory correction. As a result, our net operating revenues decreased from NT$129,191 million in 2004 to NT$100,316 million (US$3,058 million) in 2005. We cannot give any assurance that any future downturn will not affect our results of operations. Our net operating revenues are also typically affected by seasonal variations in market conditions that contribute to the fluctuation of the average selling prices of semiconductor services and products. The seasonal sales trends for semiconductor services and products closely mirror those for consumer electronics and computer sales. We generally experience seasonal lows in the demand for semiconductor services and products during the second quarter and the beginning of the third quarter of the year, primarily as a result of decreased worldwide production and sales of consumer electronics and computers during such periods, due to decreased demand for consumer electronics and computers. On the other hand, we generally experience seasonal peaks during the latter part of the third quarter and the fourth quarter of the year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production and sales of consumer electronics and computers during such periods due to increased demand for computers from holiday sales. However, we cannot give any assurance that seasonal variations will meet our expectations. Any change in the general seasonal variations which we cannot anticipate may result in materially adverse effects on our revenues, operations and businesses. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business and operations have at times in the past been negatively affected by, and are expected to continue to be subject to the risk of, the following factors: • the seasonality and cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; • our customers’ adjustments in their inventory; • the loss of a key customer or the postponement of orders from a key customer; • the rescheduling and cancellation of large orders; • our ability to obtain equipment, raw materials, electricity, water and other required utilities on a timely and economic basis; • outbreaks of contagious diseases, including severe acute respiratory syndrome and avian flu; • environmental events, such as fires and earthquakes, or industrial accidents; and • technological changes. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in some future periods. In this event, the price of the shares or ADSs may underperform or fall. 8 Table of Contents A decrease in demand for or selling prices of communication devices, consumer electronics and PCs may decrease the demand for our services and reduce our margins. Our customers generally use the semiconductors produced in our fabs in a wide variety of applications. We derive a significant percentage of our operating revenues from customers who use our manufacturing services to make semiconductors for communication devices, consumer electronics and PCs. Percentages of our net wafer sales derived from our products used in communication devices, consumer electronics, PC, memory and other applications were 46.1%, 28.3%, 22.0%, 1.7% and 1.9%, respectively, in 2005. The communications and PC markets experienced a sudden and substantial market downturn and inventory correction in the third quarter of 2005 until early 2006. This downturn resulted in a reduced demand for our services and hence decreased our revenues and earnings. Any significant decrease in the demand for communication devices, consumer electronics or PCs may further decrease the demand for our services. In addition, if the average selling prices of communication devices, consumer electronics or PCs decline significantly, we will be pressured to further reduce our selling prices, which may reduce our revenues and, therefore, reduce our margins significantly. As demonstrated by the downturn in demand for high technology products, market conditions can change rapidly, without apparent warning or advance notice. In such instances, our customers will experience inventory buildup and/or difficulties in selling their products and, in turn, will reduce or cancel orders for wafers from us. While these downturns are to be expected in the semiconductor business, their timing, severity and recovery cannot be predicted accurately or at all. When they occur, our business, profitability and price of the shares and ADSs are likely to suffer. Overcapacity in the semiconductor industry may reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. The prices that we can charge our customers for our services are significantly related to the overall worldwide supply of integrated circuits and semiconductor products. The overall supply of semiconductor products is based in part on the capacity of other companies, which is outside of our control. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand such as was the case in early 2000. As a result, periods of overcapacity in the semiconductor industry have frequently followed periods of increased demand. In a period of overcapacity, if we are unable to offset the adverse effects of overcapacity through, among other things, our technology and product mix, we may have to lower the prices we charge our customers for our services and/or we may have to operate at significantly less than full capacity. Such actions could reduce our margin and weaken our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the increased demand for semiconductors in 2003, our average capacity utilization rate increased from 65.2% in 2002 to 84.8% in 2003. With a general recovery in the worldwide semiconductor industry, we experienced growth in 2004 with average capacity utilization rate of 90.8%. Our average capacity utilization rate again decreased to 72.4% in 2005 due to a slowdown in our industry compared with the growth in 2004. However, we cannot give any assurance that an increase in the demand for foundry services in the future will not lead to overcapacity again in the near future, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, earnings and margins. Any problem in the semiconductor outsourcing infrastructure can adversely affect our net operating revenues and profitability. Many of our customers depend on third parties to provide mask tooling, assembly and test services. If these customers cannot timely obtain these services on reasonable terms, they may not order any foundry services from us. This may significantly reduce our net operating revenues and negatively affect our profitability. We may be unable to implement new technology as it becomes available, which may result in our loss of customers and market share. The semiconductor industry is developing rapidly and the related technology is constantly evolving. If we do not anticipate the technology evolution and rapidly adopt new and innovative technology, we may not be able to produce sufficiently advanced products at competitive prices. There is a risk that our competitors may adopt new technology before we do, resulting in our loss of market share. For example, in 2003, we were one of the first foundries to deliver working customer products using advanced 90-nanometer copper technology. This technology has been in volume production since the second quarter of 2004. In 2005, product samples fabricated using 65–nanometer process technology were delivered to customers for validation. Furthermore, we are actively developing 45-nanometer process technologies to significantly increase the competitive advantages of our customers by 9 Table of Contents providing better device performance in a smaller die size. If we are unable on a timely basis to begin offering these products on a competitive basis, we may lose to our competitors providing similar technologies to customers, which may cause our net operating revenues to decline unless we can replace lost customers with new customers. If we lose the support of our technology partners, we may be unable to provide leading technology to our customers. Enhancing our manufacturing process technologies is critical to our ability to provide services for our customers. We intend to continue to advance our process technologies through internal research and development and alliances with other companies. Although we have an internal research and development team focused on certain customers developing new semiconductor manufacturing process technologies, we are dependent on our technology partners to advance our portfolio of process technologies. We currently have patent cross-licensing agreements with several companies, including Agere Systems Inc., or Agere, International Business Machines Corporation, or IBM, Texas Instruments Incorporated, or Texas Instruments, and Freescale Semiconductor Inc, or Freescale. We also depend upon mask and equipment vendors to supply our technology development teams with the masks and equipment needed to continuously develop more advanced processing technologies. If we are unable to continue any of our joint development arrangements, patent cross-licensing agreements and other agreements, on mutually beneficial economic terms, if we re-evaluate the technological and economic benefits of such relationships, if we are unable to enter into new technology alliances with other leading semiconductor suppliers, or if we fail to secure masks and equipment from our vendors in a timely manner sufficient to support our ongoing technology development, we may lose important customers because we are unable to continue providing our customers with leading edge mass-producible process technologies. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our business may suffer. The worldwide semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with dedicated foundry service providers such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Shanghai) Corporation and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., as well as the foundry operation services of some integrated device manufacturers such as IBM and Toshiba Corporation, or Toshiba. Integrated device manufacturers principally manufacture and sell their own proprietary semiconductor products, but may also offer foundry service. Other competitors such as Samsung, DongbuAnam Semiconductor, Grace Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp., X-FAB Semiconductors Foundries AG and Silterra Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. have initiated efforts to develop substantial new foundry capacity. New entrants in the foundry business are likely to initiate a trend of competitive pricing and create potential overcapacity in legacy technology. Some of our competitors have greater access to capital and substantially greater production, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than we can. The principal elements of competition in the wafer foundry market include: • technical competence; • time-to-volume production and cycle time; • time-to-market; • research and development quality; • available capacity; • manufacturing yields; • customer service; • price; • management expertise; and • strategic alliances. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully also depends on factors partially outside of our control, including product availability and industry and general economic trends. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our business may suffer. If we are unable to continuously improve our manufacturing yields, maintain high capacity utilization and optimize the technology mix of our silicon wafer production, our profit margin may substantially decline. Our ability to maintain our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to: • maintain our capacity utilization, that is, the wafer-out quantity of 8-inch wafer equivalents divided by estimated total 8-inch equivalent capacity in a specified period. The estimated capacity numbers may differ depending upon equipment delivery schedules, pace of migration to more advanced process technologies and other factors affecting production ramp-ups; • maintain or improve our manufacturing yield, that is, the percentage of usable manufactured devices on a wafer; and • optimize the technology mix of our production, that is, the relative number of wafers manufactured utilizing different process technologies. Our manufacturing yields directly affect our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as the price of our services. Our capacity utilization affects our operating results because a large percentage of our operating costs are fixed. With the general recovery of the worldwide semiconductor industry in 2004, we experienced growth in our capacity utilization rate that year. Our capacity utilization rate, however, decreased in 2005 because of the market downturn in that year. Our technology mix affects utilization of our equipment and process technologies, which can affect our margins. If we are unable to continuously improve our manufacturing yields, maintain high capacity utilization or optimize the technology mix of our wafer production, our profit margin may substantially decline. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to fund the substantial capital expenditures we expect to incur, we may not be able to implement our planned growth. Our business and the nature of our industry require us to make substantial capital expenditures leading to a high level of fixed costs. We expect to incur significant capital expenditures in connection with our growth plans. These capital expenditures will be made in advance of any additional sales to be generated by new or upgraded fabs as a result of these expenditures. Given the fixed-cost nature of our business, we have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, operating losses if our revenues do not adequately offset our capital expenditures. Additionally, our actual expenditures may exceed our planned expenditures for a variety of reasons, including changes in: • our growth plan; • our process technology; • market conditions; • interest rates; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • prices of equipment. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on satisfactory terms, we may be forced to curtail our expansion plans or delay the deployment of our services, which could result in a loss of customers and limit the growth of our business. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our net operating revenues and a loss of some of these customers would result in the loss of a significant portion of our net operating revenues. We have been largely dependent on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business. In 2005, our top ten customers accounted for 58.3% of our net operating revenues. Our top two customers each accounted for 17.8% and 10.5%, respectively, of our net operating revenues in 2005. We expect that we will continue to be dependent upon a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net operating revenues. We cannot assure you that our net operating revenues generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Loss or cancellation of business from significant changes in scheduled deliveries to, or decreases in the prices of services sold to, any of these customers could significantly reduce our net operating revenues. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future revenues, adjust production costs and allocate capacity efficiently on a timely basis. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance (usually two months before shipment). In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our net operating revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter. We face significant risks, and incur substantial costs, in connection with the operation of our new fab in Singapore. In March 2001, we entered into a foundry venture agreement with EDB Investments Pte Ltd., or EDB Investments, and Infineon Technologies AG, or Infineon, relating to the formation of UMCi to construct and operate a 12-inch wafer fab in Singapore’s Pasir Ris Wafer Fab Park. Under the sale and transfer agreements entered in August 2003 and March 2004, we purchased all of the shares of UMCi held by Infineon and EDB Investments. Through subsequent purchases, UMCi became our wholly owned subsidiary in December 2004. The facilities of our Fab 12i employ advanced process technology of 0.13-micron and 90-nanometer processes. Fab 12i began volume production in the first quarter of 2004 and has a monthly capacity of 14,500 12-inch wafers as of March 31, 2006, which is equivalent to a monthly capacity of 32,625 8-inch wafers. Pursuant to a sale and transfer agreement dated March 31, 2005, UMCi transferred its businesses, operations and assets to our newly incorporated Singapore Branch on April 1, 2005. Doing business in Singapore involves risks related to infrastructure, changes in local laws and economic and political conditions. We chose Singapore in part to take advantage of economic incentives provided under the laws and policies of Singapore. Any change in these or other laws or policies or in the political or economic conditions in Singapore or the surrounding region may have an adverse effect on Fab 12i’s business. In addition, due to the high cost of raw materials, labor and equipment in operating this new fab, we expect that our operations in Singapore could incur significant cash outflows over the next few years. Once a fab is in operation at acceptable capacity and yield rates, it can provide significant cash inflows. However, prior to such time, it may incur significant losses due largely to significant depreciation and amortization expenses, which are not expected to be offset by a significant amount of revenues. If Fab 12i fails to achieve sufficient volumes of production at or above acceptable yield rates, or if the cost of production exceeds expectation, Fab 12i could result in substantial loss which may negatively affect our income or loss. 12 Table of Contents Our inability to obtain, preserve and defend intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and to secure critical processing technology that we do not own at commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to independently develop, or secure from any third party, the technology required for upgrading our production facilities. Our failure to successfully obtain such technology may seriously harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States until they are granted. The semiconductor industry, because of the complexity of the technology used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. It is common for patent owners to assert their patents against semiconductor manufacturers. We have received from time to time communications from third parties asserting patents that cover certain of our technologies and alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others, and we expect to continue to receive such communications in the future. We do not believe that we are currently infringing on any patent rights. In the event any third party were to make a valid claim against us or our customers, we could be required to: • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • discontinue using certain process technologies, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain semiconductors; • pay substantial monetary damages; or • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. Any one of these developments could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could hurt our reputation as a technology leader in our industry and prevent us from manufacturing particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce opportunities to generate revenues. Our inability to enter into certain patent cross licenses on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. We entered into a patent cross license arrangement with Hitachi in 1994 and renewed that arrangement in 1999. The renewal arrangement expired at the end of 2003 and Renesas Technology Corp. (“Renesas”), who succeeded to the Hitachi patent portfolio, has asserted, subsequent to the expiration of the patent cross license arrangements, that we have been infringing upon several of their patents and request that we enter into cross licenses with them. However, we believe and have asserted that Renesas has, instead, infringed upon several of our patents. We are currently in negotiations with Renesas with respect to the terms of possible cross license arrangements and Renesas has indicated their willingness to enter into such arrangements on terms that we believe would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operations. However, we can not give any assurance that the cross license negotiations will be successful or that we will be able to renew these cross license arrangements on terms that would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operations. Two of our former executives were charged with criminal offenses and our company was fined for violations of the Act Governing Relations Between Peoples of the Taiwan Area and the Mainland Area in connection with our alleged involvement in the operation of Hejian Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., a semiconductor manufacturer in China. 13 Table of Contents Hejian Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., or Hejian, a semiconductor manufacturer in Suzhou, China, was set up in December 2001. Soon after the establishment of Hejian, there were various rumors that Hejian was set up by us, which we denied immediately because we did not inject any capital into nor did we transfer any technology to Hejian. In June 2005, our former Chairman, Robert H. C. Tsao and our former Vice Chairman, John Hshun, were interrogated by the Hsinchu District Prosecutor’s Office for a breach of their fiduciary duty owed to us. In January 2006, Hsinchu District Prosecutor’s Office announced that our former Chairman and former Vice Chairman would be prosecuted in connection with their alleged breach of fiduciary duties and certain violations of the ROC Commercial Accounting Act. Prior to such charges, both our former Chairman and former Vice Chairman resigned from their respective positions with our company. The ROC Financial Supervisory Commission, or the ROC FSC, a regulatory authority that supervises securities, banking, futures, and insurance activities in Taiwan, also began their investigation into any violation of ROC securities laws by us. In April 2005, our former Chairman was fined (1) in the amount of NT$2.4 million by the ROC FSC for our delay in making timely public disclosure (within two days) regarding the information relating to Hejian, which was resolved in our board meeting on March 4, 2005 (the “March 4 Resolution”), and (2) in the amount of NT$0.6 million for our failure to disclose the information regarding the assistance we had provided to Hejian. Our former Chairman’s appeal in relation to such fines was overruled in early 2006, and a lawsuit has been filed by our former Chairman with the Administrative High Court seeking to revoke the disposition made by the ROC FSC. In connection with the March 4 Resolution, our company was also fined in the amount of NT$30,000 by the Taiwan Stock Exchange for a delay in making public disclosure. After our former Chairman and former Vice Chairman were indicted by the prosecutor, our company was found by the ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs to be in violation of the Act Governing Relations Between Peoples of the Taiwan Area and the Mainland Area and fined in the amount of NT$5 million for our alleged illegal investment in Hejian. Although we are currently appealing such fines, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in such appeal. We have been offered a 15% interest in a holding company that owns Hejian, but such investment may not materialize. ROC law prohibits investment in China by Taiwanese makers of semiconductors without government approval. In March 2005, the Chairman of the holding company of Hejian offered us a 15% interest in the holding company of Hejian. Immediately after we received the offer, we filed an application with the Investment Commission for their executive guidance and disclosed our receipt of such offer to investors and the public. As of the date of this annual report, we have not entered into any agreement to formalize the terms and conditions in connection with the transfer of the 15% interest. Pending ROC regulatory approval, we will endeavor to include this 15% interest in our assets, which will then be reflected on our financial statements. We cannot assure you at present that the ROC government will approve our acceptance of this 15% interest, or if such acceptance is approved by the ROC government, the agreement that formalizes the terms and conditions will be on the terms that are favorable to us. If we lose one or more of our key personnel without adequate replacements, our operations and business will suffer. Our future success to a large extent depends on the continued service of our Chairman and key executive officers. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our personnel. If we lose the services of any of our Chairman or key executive officers, it could be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a short period of time, which could harm our operations and the growth of our business. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees, who are critical to our future success. The success of our business depends upon attracting and retaining experienced executives, engineers and other employees to implement our strategy. The competition for skilled employees is intense. We expect demand for personnel in Taiwan to increase in the future as new wafer fabrication facilities and other businesses are established 14 Table of Contents in Taiwan. We do not have long-term employment contracts with any of our employees. If we were unable to retain our existing personnel or attract, assimilate and recruit new experienced personnel in the future, it could seriously disrupt our operations and delay or restrict the growth of our business. Our transactions with affiliates and shareholders may hurt our profitability and competitive position. We have provided foundry services to several of our affiliates and shareholders. These transactions were conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Other than capacity commitments to our former foundry venture partners, we currently do not provide any preferential treatment to any of these affiliates and shareholders. However, we may in the future reserve or allocate our production capacity to these companies if there is a shortage of foundry services in the market to enable these companies to maintain their operations and/or to protect our investments in them. This reservation or allocation may reduce our capacity available for our other customers, which may damage our relationships with other customers and discourage them from using our services. This may hurt our profitability and competitive position. If we restate our financial statements in the future, we could experience a loss in investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of the shares or ADSs. Subsequent to the filing of our initial annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2004, and in the process of addressing certain comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission on such initial annual report, we discovered that certain US GAAP-related financial information was miscalculated. As a result we restated our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 with respect to certain US GAAP financial information, as further disclosed in Note 33 to our financial statements relating to non-cash charges and adjustments to goodwill, derivative instruments and employee stock bonuses. We filed our restated financial statements in an amendment to our annual report on Form 20-F/A for the year ended December 31, 2004 on February 13, 2006. If we are required to revise, amend or restate our financial statements again in the future, we could experience a loss in investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements which could negatively impact the market price of the shares or ADSs. Investor confidence in us may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants are unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Securities and Exchange Commission, as directed by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring U.S. public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s independent registered public accountants must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006. Our management may not conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Moreover, even if our management does conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, if the independent registered public accountants are not satisfied with our internal controls, the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accountants interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, they may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is adverse. Any of these possible outcomes could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. The differences between ROC and U.S. accounting standards affect the amount of our net income. Our financial statements are prepared under ROC GAAP, which differ in certain significant respects from US GAAP. For example, ROC GAAP does not require the recognition of the market value of our shares distributed as bonuses to our employees in the calculation of net income. In addition, we have performed impairment test relating to goodwill and long-lived assets under US GAAP, which was not required to apply to financial statements prior to 2005 under ROC GAAP. As a result, our net income (loss) in 2003, 2004 and 2005 under US GAAP was 15 Table of Contents NT$12,331 million, NT$(14,237) million and NT$ (15,669) million (US$(478) million), respectively, as compared to net income under ROC GAAP of NT$14,020 million, NT$31,843 million and NT$7,027 million (US$214 million) in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. For a discussion of these differences, see Note 34 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Changes in ROC GAAP may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We used to categorize securities we owned as either short-term investments or long-term investments. Short-term investments were recorded at cost when acquired and stated at the lower of aggregate cost or market value (LCM). Long-term investments were stated at cost when acquired and evaluated under the LCM method or equity method, depending on the percentage of our shareholding. Stock dividends received were not recorded as investment income, but were reflected as an increase in the number of shares held. However, according to the ROC Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 34, “Accounting for Financial Instruments” (“ROC SFAS 34”), beginning in 2006, investments in debt and equity securities are classified into five main categories: at-fair-value-through-profit-or-loss (the “FVTPL”), available-for-sale, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and measured-at-cost. Changes in the values of securities in the FVTPL portfolio are recognized in the profit and loss accounts immediately; changes in the values of available-for-sale category are reported in a separate component of shareholders’ equity; loans and receivables and held-to-maturity securities are recorded under the amortized cost method. In a departure from previous ROC GAAP, which treated derivatives as off-balance sheet items, ROC SFAS 34 requires all derivatives to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value and establishes “hedge accounting” for three different types of hedges: fair value hedge, cash flow hedge and foreign currency net investment hedge. Under hedge accounting, the effective portion of gains or losses from the hedging transactions are either recognized as earnings or charged to stockholders’ equity, as applicable. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not meet the criteria of one of these three categories of hedges are recorded directly in earnings. We cannot assure you that the implementation of ROC SFAS 34 will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and may generally disrupt our operations. If any of our employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may under certain circumstances be required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. As a result, we may have to temporarily suspend part of or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan, which may also adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Manufacturing Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, costly and potentially vulnerable to impurities and other disruptions that can significantly increase our costs and delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified to improve manufacturing yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process or defects with respect to equipment or supporting facilities can lower manufacturing yields, interrupt production or result in losses of products in process. As system complexity has increased and process technology has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become even more demanding. Although we have been enhancing our manufacturing capabilities and efficiency, from time to time we have experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays and quality control problems, as is common in the semiconductor industry. In the past we have encountered the following problems: • capacity constraints due to changes in product mix or the delayed delivery of equipment critical to our production, including scanners, steppers and chemical stations; 16 Table of Contents • construction delays during expansions of our clean rooms and other facilities; • difficulties in increasing production at new and existing facilities; • difficulties in upgrading or expanding existing facilities; • manufacturing execution system or automatic transportation system failure; • changing or upgrading our process technologies; and • raw materials shortages and impurities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our manufacturing capacity and efficiency in the future to the same extent as in the past. In addition, the Taiwan government is currently building a high-speed railway system, which would pass near the Tainan Science Park where our 12-inch fab, Fab 12A, is located. Trains on this system are expected to begin running as early as late 2006. Once these trains begin running, they would emit microvibrations that some experts predict could interfere with the operation of lithography equipment used for wafer production in Fab 12A, which is close to the affected area. Although we do not believe that such microvibrations may cause serious direct harm to our operations, they could cause our yield rates at this fab to decline and our costs of producing 12-inch wafers to increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We may have difficulty in ramping up production in accordance with our schedule, which could cause delays in product deliveries and decreases in manufacturing yields. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced difficulties in ramping up production at new or existing facilities or effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes. As a result, we have suffered delays in product deliveries or reduced manufacturing yields. We may encounter similar difficulties in connection with: • the migration to more advanced process technologies, such as 65- and 45-nanometer process technology; • the joint development with vendors for more powerful tools (both in production and inspection) needed in the future to meet advanced process technology requirements; and • the adoption of new materials in our manufacturing processes. Because we are one of the earliest semiconductor manufacturers in the world to construct 12-inch fabs, we may be subject to risks relating to the construction, ramping up, operation and expansion of these facilities. We might face construction delays, interruptions, infrastructure failure and delays in upgrading or expanding existing facilities, or changing our process technologies, any of which might adversely affect our production schedule. Our failure to follow our production schedule could delay the time required to recover our investments and seriously affect our profitability. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and equipment in a timely manner, our production schedules could be delayed and we may lose customers. We depend on our suppliers for raw materials. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we must obtain from our suppliers, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality materials at acceptable prices. Although we source our raw materials from several suppliers, a small number of these suppliers account for a substantial amount of our supply of raw materials because of the consistent quality of these suppliers’ wafers. For example, in 2005, we purchased a majority of our silicon wafers from three suppliers, Shin-Etsu Handotai Corporation, or Shin-Etsu, MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc. and Formosa Komatsu Silicon Corporation. We do not 17 Table of Contents have long-term contracts with most of our suppliers. From time to time, our suppliers have extended lead time or limited the supply of required materials to us because of capacity constraints. Consequently, from time to time, we have experienced difficulty in obtaining the quantities of raw materials we need on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time we may reject materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in declines in output or manufacturing yields. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies in a timely manner. If the supply of materials is substantially diminished or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials, we may be forced to incur additional costs to acquire sufficient quantities of raw materials to sustain our operations, which may increase our marginal costs and reduce profitability. We also depend on a limited number of manufacturers and vendors that make and maintain the complex equipment we use in our manufacturing processes. We also rely on these manufacturers and vendors to improve our technology to meet our customers’ demands as technology improves. In periods of unpredictable and highly diversified market demand, the lead time from order to delivery of this equipment can be as long as six to 12 months. If there are delays in the delivery of equipment or if there are increases in the cost of equipment, it could cause us to delay our introduction of new manufacturing capacity or technologies and delay product deliveries, which may result in the loss of customers and revenues. We may be subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and may therefore be subject to the risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We maintain insurance policies to reduce losses caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. While we believe that our insurance coverage for damage to our property and business interruption due to fire is consistent with semiconductor industry practice, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and self-insured retention and may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, it would temporarily reduce manufacturing capacity and reduce revenues. We and many of our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events outside of our control, which may seriously disrupt our operations. Most of our assets and many of our customers and suppliers are located in the Hsinchu Science Park. We and these customers and suppliers are dependent on the infrastructure supporting the Park. Our operations and the operations of our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to earthquakes, floods, droughts, power losses and similar events that affect the Hsinchu Science Park. The occurrence of any of these events could interrupt our services and cause severe damages to wafers in process. For instance, our operations stopped completely for five days in September 1999 largely because of a power outage caused by a severe earthquake. After the stoppage, we spent several days to ramp up to full operations. Most recently in November 2004, Taiwan experienced significant earthquakes registering up to 6.7 on the Richter scale. We did not experience any significant damage as a result of these earthquakes. We cannot guarantee that future earthquakes will not cause material damage to our facilities or property, including work in progress, or cause significant business interruptions. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance for such risks, there is no guarantee that future damages or business loss from earthquakes will be covered by such insurance, that we will be able to collect from our insurance carriers, should we choose to claim under our insurance policies, or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, shortages or suspension of power supplies to the Hsinchu Science Park have occasionally occurred, and have disrupted our operations. In addition, the Hsinchu area experienced a severe drought in 2001 and is likely to experience other droughts in the future. While the semiconductor manufacturing process uses large amounts of water, if a drought does occur and the authorities are unable to source water from alternative sources in sufficient quantity, we may be required to temporarily shut down or substantially reduce the operations of our fabs located in the Hsinchu Science Park, which would seriously affect our operations. 18 Table of Contents If we violate environmental regulations, our operations may be delayed or interrupted and our business could suffer. We are always subject to environmental regulations and a failure or a claim that we have failed to comply with these environmental regulations could cause delays in our production and capacity expansion and affect our public image, either of which could harm our business. In addition, as environmental regulations are becoming more comprehensive and stringent, we may incur a greater amount of capital expenditures in technology innovation and materials substitution in order to comply with such regulations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Political, Economic and Regulatory Risks We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between the ROC and the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) that could negatively affect the value of your investment. Our principal executive offices and most of our assets and operations are located in Taiwan. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in ROC governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The PRC claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between the ROC and the PRC, relations have often been strained. The PRC government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan and, in March 2005, further passed an Anti-Secession Law that authorizes non-peaceful means and other necessary measures should Taiwan move to gain independence from the PRC. Past developments in relations between the ROC and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of companies in the ROC. In February 2006, the president of Taiwan suspended activities of the country’s National Unification Counsel, a committee established to assist Taiwan in its efforts to reunite with the PRC. Such suspension is commonly viewed as having a detrimental effect to reunification efforts between the two countries. Relations between the ROC and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. Our business depends on the support of the ROC government, and a decrease in this support may increase our labor costs and decrease our net income after tax. The ROC government has been very supportive of technology companies such as us. For instance, the ROC’s labor laws and regulations do not require employees of semiconductor companies, including our company, to be unionized, and permit these employees to work shifts of 10 hours each day on a two-days-on, two-days-off basis. We cannot assure you, however, that these labor laws and regulations will not change in the future. In the event that the ROC government requires our employees to be unionized or decreases the number of hours our employees may work in a given day, our labor costs may increase significantly which could result in lower margins. We, like many ROC technology companies, have benefited from substantial tax incentives provided by the ROC government. In 2005, such incentives resulted in a tax credit in the amount of NT$528 million (US$16 million). If these incentives are curtailed or eliminated, our net income after tax may decrease substantially. The trading price of the shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by the general activities of the Taiwan Stock Exchange and U.S. stock exchanges, the trading price of our shares, increases in interest rates and the economic performance of Taiwan. Our shares are listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The trading price of our ADSs may be affected by the trading price of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the economic performance of Taiwan. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is smaller and, as a market, more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and a number of European countries. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices 19 Table of Contents and volumes of sales of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. During 2005, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index reached a low of 5632.97 on October 28, 2005 and peaked at 6,575.53 on December 29, 2005. On May 30, 2006, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index closed at 6,846.95, and the daily closing value of our shares was NT$20.30 per share. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is particularly volatile during times of political instability, such as when relations between Taiwan and the PRC are strained. Moreover, the Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced problems such as market manipulation, insider trading and payment defaults, and the government of Taiwan has from time to time intervened in the stock market by purchasing stocks listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The recurrence of these or similar problems could decrease the market price and liquidity of the shares and ADSs. From September 19, 2000, the commencement date of the listing of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, to May 31, 2006, the daily reported closing prices of our ADSs ranged from US$14.87 per ADS to US$2.80 per ADS. The market price of the ADSs may also be affected by general trading activities on the U.S. stock exchanges, which recently have experienced significant price volatility with respect to shares of technology companies. Fluctuation in interest rates and other general economic conditions may also have an effect on the market price of the ADSs. Currency fluctuations could increase our costs relative to our revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. More than half of our net operating revenues are denominated in currencies other than New Taiwan dollars, primarily U.S. dollars and Japanese Yen. On the other hand, more than half of our costs of direct labor, raw materials and overhead are incurred in New Taiwan dollars. Although we hedge a portion of the resulting net foreign exchange position through the use of forward exchange contracts, we are still affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the Japanese Yen, the New Taiwan dollar and other currencies. Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may be harmful to our financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the New Taiwan dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of the ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any cash dividends we pay, which could have a corresponding effect on the market price of the ADSs. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the Taiwan securities market. In response to declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, the Republic of China government formed the National Financial Stabilization Fund to support these markets through open market purchases of shares in Taiwan companies from time to time. The details of the transactions of the National Financial Stabilization Fund have not been made public. In addition, the government’s Labor Insurance Fund and other funds associated with the government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. As a result of these activities, the market price of common shares of Taiwan companies may have been and may currently be higher than the prices that would otherwise prevail in the open market. Market intervention by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause sudden movements in the market prices of the securities of Taiwan companies, which may affect the market price and liquidity of our common shares and ADSs. Our future tax obligations may adversely affect our profitability. The ROC government enacted the ROC Income Basic Tax Act, also known as the “Minimum Income Tax Statute” (the “Statute”), which became effective from January 1, 2006 and imposes an alternative minimum tax (“AMT”). The AMT is designed to remedy the current excessive tax incentives for individuals and businesses. The AMT imposed under the Statute is a supplemental tax which is payable if the income tax payable pursuant to the ROC Income Tax Act is below the minimum amount prescribed under the Statute. For the purpose of calculating the AMT, the taxable income defined under the Statute includes most income that is exempted from income tax under various legislations, such as those providing tax holidays and investment tax credits. For businesses, the incomes which previously enjoyed tax-exemption privileges under relevant tax regulations, such as the Act for the Establishment and Administration of the Science Parks and the Statute for Upgrading Industries will be subject to the new AMT system for the calculation of business taxpayers’ aggregate incomes. The AMT rate for business 20 Table of Contents entities is 10%. Under the Statute, a company will be subject to a 10% AMT if its annual taxable income under the Statute exceeds NT$2 million. However, the Statute grandfathered certain tax exemptions granted prior to the enactment of the AMT. For example, businesses already qualified for five-year tax holidays before December 31, 2005 may continue to enjoy tax incentives, and the income exempted thereunder will not to be added to the taxable income for the purpose of calculating the AMT, so long as the construction of their investment projects breaks ground within one year from January 1, 2006 and is completed within three years commencing from the day immediately following their receipts of the applicable permission issued by the competent authority. We do not expect the statute to result in any material impact on our financial conditions or business operations in the short term. Risks Related to the Shares and ADSs and Our Trading Markets Restrictions on the ability to deposit shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs. The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by ROC law. Under current ROC law, no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit shares into our ADS program without specific approval of the ROC FSC except for the deposit of the shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: (1) distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our shares; (2) exercise of the preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the shares evidenced by ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or (3) purchases of our shares in the domestic market in Taiwan by the investor directly or through the depositary and delivery of such shares to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (a) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposit only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the deposit does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by the ROC FSC, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described in (1) and (2) above and (b) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been cancelled and the corresponding shares which are withdrawn from our ADS facility by holders have been sold in the domestic market in Taiwan. As a result of the limited ability to deposit shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on the NYSE may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Holders of our ADSs will not have the same proposal or voting rights as the holders of our shares, which may affect the value of your investment. Except for treasury shares, each common share is generally entitled to one vote and no voting discount will be applied. However, except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attached to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares represented by the ADSs. The voting rights attached to the shares evidenced by our ADSs must be exercised as to all matters brought to a vote of shareholders collectively in the same manner. Moreover, holders of the ADSs do not have individual rights to propose any matter for shareholders’ votes at our shareholders’ meetings. However, holders of at least 51% of the ADS outstanding at the relevant record date may request the depositary to submit to us one proposal per year for consideration at our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting, provided that such proposal meets certain submission criteria and limitations, including the language and the length of the proposal, the time of submission, the required certification or undertakings, and the attendance at the annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting. A qualified proposal so submitted by the depositary will 21 Table of Contents still be subject to review by our board of directors and there is no assurance that the proposal will be accepted by our board of directors for inclusion in the agenda of our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting. Furthermore, if we determine, at our discretion, that the proposal submitted by the depositary does not qualify, we have no obligation to notify the depositary or to allow the depositary to modify such proposal. Furthermore, if holders of at least 51% of the ADSs outstanding at the relevant record date instruct the depositary to vote in the same manner regarding a resolution, including election of directors and/or supervisors, the depositary will appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to represent the ADS holders at the shareholders’ meetings and to vote the shares represented by the ADSs outstanding in the manner so instructed. If by the relevant record date the depositary has not received instructions from holders of ADSs holding at least 51% of the ADSs to vote in the same manner for any resolution, then the holders will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to authorize and appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to vote all the shares represented by ADSs at his sole discretion, which may not be in your interest. The rights of holders of our ADSs to participate in our rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. Changes in exchange controls that restrict your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment. Your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs depends on existing and future exchange control regulations of the Republic of China. Under the current laws of the Republic of China, an ADS holder or the depositary, without obtaining further approvals from the Central Bank of China or any other governmental authority or agency of the Republic of China, may convert NT dollars into other currencies, including U.S. dollars, in respect of: • the proceeds of the sale of shares represented by ADSs or received as share dividends with respect to the shares and deposited into the depositary receipt facility; and • any cash dividends or distributions received from the shares represented by ADSs. In addition, the depositary may also convert into NT dollars incoming payments for purchases of shares for deposit in the depositary receipt facility against the creation of additional ADSs. If you withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs and become a holder of our shares, you may convert into NT dollars subscription payments for rights offerings. The depositary may be required to obtain foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank of China on a payment-by-payment basis for conversion from NT dollars into foreign currencies of the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights of new shares. Although it is expected that the Central Bank of China will grant approval as a routine matter, required approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, or at all. Under the Republic of China Foreign Exchange Control Law, the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China may, without prior notice but subject to subsequent legislative approval, impose foreign exchange controls or other restrictions in the event of, among other things, a material change in international economic conditions. 22 Table of Contents Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by laws governing ROC corporations. The rights of our shareholders to bring shareholders’ suits against us or our board of directors under ROC law are much more limited than those of the shareholders of U.S. corporations. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Please refer to “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Rights to Bring Shareholders’ Suits” included elsewhere in this annual report for a detailed discussion of the rights of our shareholders to bring legal actions against us or our directors under ROC law. Holders of our ADSs will be required to appoint several local agents in Taiwan if they withdraw shares from our ADS program and become our shareholders, which may make ownership burdensome. Non-ROC persons wishing to withdraw shares represented by their ADSs from our ADS program and hold our shares represented by those ADSs are required to, among other things, appoint a local agent or representative with qualifications set forth by the ROC FSC to open a securities trading account with a local brokerage firm, pay ROC taxes, remit funds and exercise shareholders’ rights. In addition, the withdrawing holders are also required to appoint a custodian bank with qualifications set forth by the Ministry of Finance to hold the securities in safekeeping, make confirmations, settle trades and report all relevant information. Without making this appointment and opening of the accounts, the withdrawing holders would not be able to subsequently sell our shares withdrawn from a depositary receipt facility on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Under ROC law and regulations, citizens of the PRC are not permitted to hold our shares or withdraw shares represented by ADSs from our ADS program unless they obtain the approval from the competent authority. Due to the absence of relevant rules or guidelines, PRC persons are currently not able to conduct investments in the ROC. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court in the ROC We are a company limited by shares incorporated under the ROC Company Act. Most of our assets and most of our directors, supervisors and executive officers and experts named in the registration statement are located in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained outside Taiwan upon us or such persons in Taiwan. We have been advised by our ROC counsel that any judgment obtained against us in any court outside the ROC arising out of or relating to the ADSs will not be enforced by ROC courts if any of the following situations shall apply to such final judgment: • the court rendering the judgment does not have jurisdiction over the subject matter according to ROC law; • the judgment is contrary to the public order or good morals of the ROC; • the judgment was rendered by default, except where the summons or order necessary for the commencement of the action was legally served on us within the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment within a reasonable period of time or with judicial assistance of the ROC; or • judgments of ROC courts are not recognized in the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment on a reciprocal basis. We may be considered a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for U.S. investors. We do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for 2005 and we do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. Based upon the nature of our business activities, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. 23 Table of Contents For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our common and preferred shares, which is subject to change. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in this offering. See “Taxation –U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations For U.S. Persons — Passive foreign investment companies.” 