ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These risk factors include the following.Market, Interest Rate, Credit and Liquidity RiskOur business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally.The financial services industry has been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a significant and prolonged period of negative economic conditions. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to virtually all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes. The U.S. economy has continued to be adversely affected by these events as shown by high unemployment across most industries, and high delinquencies and defaults on loans. There is also evidence of "strategic defaults" on loans, which are characterized by borrowers that appear to have the financial means to satisfy the required loan payments as they come due but choose not to do so because the value of the assets securing their debts (such as the value of a house securing a residential mortgage) may have declined below the amount of the debt itself. Further, there are several states, such as California, in which many residential mortgages are effectively non-recourse in nature or in which statutes or regulations cause collection efforts to be unduly difficult or expensive to pursue. There are also a multitude of commercial real estate loans throughout the United States that are soon to mature, and declines in commercial real estate values nationwide could prevent refinancing of the debt and thereby result in an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures and non-performing loans, as well as further reductions in asset values. The decline in asset values to date has resulted in considerable losses to secured lenders, such as the Bank, that historically have been able to rely on the underlying collateral value of their loans to be minimize or eliminate losses. There can be no assurance that property values will stabilize or improve and if they continue to decline, there can be no assurance that the Bank will not continue to incur significant credit losses.Prior market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of the largest financial institutions in the United States and global marketplaces and could recur. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase swap spreads, cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and often have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral.While there have been moderate improvements during 2012 in a number of macroeconomic factors which impact our business, near term concerns remain over unemployment, the U.S. mortgage market, depressed real estate values, access to credit and liquidity markets, energy costs, and global political issues such as sovereign debt defaults. There can be no assurance that the current economic downturn will improve, and as a result, our results of operations could continue to be adversely affected.If we cannot effectively manage the impact of the volatility of interest rates our earnings could be adversely affected.Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to maximize the benefit and minimize the adverse effect of changes in interest rates on our earnings over an extended period of time. In managing these risks, we look at, among other things, yield curves and hedging strategies. As such, our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in 34the short term because the market value of our assets and related hedges may be significantly impacted either positively or negatively by unanticipated variations in interest rates. In particular, our portfolio of MSRs and our mortgage pipeline are highly sensitive to movements in interest rates, and hedging activities related to the portfolio.Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans made to others and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our profitability also depends in substantial part on the volume of loan originations and the related fees received from our Mortgage Banking segment. Our net interest margin and our volume of mortgage originations will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and global and domestic economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest margin and the mortgage origination volumes for the Bank and for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors. Also, our volume of mortgage originations will also depend on the mortgage qualification standards imposed by the GSEs, such that if their standards are tightened, our origination volume could be reduced. Our goal has been to structure our asset and liability management strategies to maximize the benefit of changes in market interest rates on our net interest margin and revenues related to mortgage origination volume. However, a sudden or significant change in prevailing interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Increasing long-term interest rates may decrease our mortgage loan originations and sales. Generally, the volume of mortgage loan originations is inversely related to the level of long-term interest rates. During periods of low long-term interest rates, a significant number of our customers may elect to refinance their mortgages (i.e., pay off their existing higher rate mortgage loans with new mortgage loans obtained at lower interest rates). Our profitability levels and those of others in the mortgage industry have generally been strongest during periods of low and/or declining interest rates, as we have historically been able to sell the resulting increased volume of loans into the secondary market at a gain. During 2012 and 2011, the interest rate environment was quite favorable for mortgage loan originations, particularly refinancing activity, in large part due to government intervention through the purchase of mortgage-backed securities and other federal monetary policies and heightened global demand for investment in U.S. Treasury obligations, all of which facilitated a low-rate interest rate environment for the residential mortgage market. In addition, there were wide spreads between short and long term interest rates for much of 2012, resulting in higher profit margins on loan sales than in prior periods. There is no guarantee that these conditions will persist, and a change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.When interest rates fluctuate, repricing risks arise from the timing difference in the maturity and/or repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions. While such repricing mismatches are fundamental to our business, they can expose us to fluctuations in income and economic value as interest rates vary. Our interest rate risk management strategies do not completely eliminate repricing risk.A significant number of our depositors are believed to be rate sensitive. Because of the interest rate sensitivity of these depositors, there is no guarantee that in a changing interest rate environment we will be able to retain all funds in these accounts.Current and further deterioration in the housing and commercial real estate markets may lead to increased loss severities and further increases in past due loans and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase reserves.A good portion of our loans held-for-investment portfolio is comprised of loans collateralized by real estate in which we are in the first lien position. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Unexpected losses may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control.As with most lending institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable and inherent losses in our loans held for our investment portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The allowance for loan losses reflects management’s estimate of the probable and inherent losses in our portfolio of held-for-investment loans at the relevant statement of financial condition date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio, composition and maintaining our current revenue pace of the portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently subjective process that requires significant management judgment and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates.35Moreover, our regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. Our regulators may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to recognize further losses, based on their judgment, which may be different from that of our management. The results of such reviews may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.The housing and the residential mortgage markets have continued to experience a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions remain poor or further deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the fair value of our non-performing assets, the loss severities of loans in default, and the fair value of real estate owned. We may also realize additional losses in connection with our disposition of non-performing assets. Poor economic conditions could result in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect the value of residential properties. A sustained weak economy could also result in higher levels of non-performing loans in other categories, such as commercial loans, which may result in additional losses. Management continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint for indications of change in other markets. If these economic conditions and market factors negatively and/or disproportionately affect our loans, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net-charge offs and also be required to significantly increase allowance for loan losses. Any further increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision expense for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity, net earnings, or regulatory capital ratios.At December 31, 2012, we had $184.4 million of securities classified as available-for-sale. The estimated fair value of available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on market conditions. Our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease may be recovered over the life of the securities.We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which are considered in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. Generally these changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates are viewed as temporary, which is consistent with experience. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary related to credit losses, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income.In the past, we recorded other than temporary impairment ("OTTI") charges. Our securities portfolio is monitored as part of ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future.The capital that the Bank is required to hold for regulatory purposes is impacted by, among other things, the securities ratings. Therefore, ratings downgrades on our securities may have a material adverse effect on our risk-based regulatory capital ratios.Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage investment in MSRs may be ineffective to offset any adverse changes in the fair value of these assets due to changes in interest rates and market liquidity. We invest in MSRs to support mortgage strategies and to deploy capital at acceptable returns. We also deploy derivatives and other fair value assets as economic hedges to offset changes in fair value of the MSRs resulting from the actual or anticipated changes in prepayments stemming from changing interest rate environments. The primary risk associated with MSRs is that they will lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments due to loan refinancing prompted, in part, by declining interest rates. Conversely, these assets generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than anticipated. There is also a risk of valuation decline due to higher than expected increases in default rates, but we do not believe such risk can be sufficiently quantified to effectively hedge. Our hedging strategies are highly susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility, and changes in the shape of the yield curve, among other factors. 36In addition, hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding assets and general market factors. If one or more of these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may incur losses that would adversely impact earnings.Our ability to borrow funds, maintain or increase deposits or raise capital could be limited, which could adversely affect our liquidity and earnings.Our access to external sources of financing, including deposits, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent on various factors including regulatory restrictions. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, further reductions in debt ratings, financial results and losses, changes within the organization, specific events that adversely impact reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing funding transactions. Many of these factors depend upon market perceptions of events that are beyond our control, such as the failure of other banks or financial institutions. Other factors are dependent upon results of operations, including but not limited to material changes in operating margins; earnings trends and volatility; funding and liquidity management practices; financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers; the composition of the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and/or capital structure; geographic and business diversification; and our market share and competitive position in the operating segments. The material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of our credit or servicer standing with counterparties or a decline in our financial reputation within the marketplace and could result in our having a limited ability to borrow funds, maintain or increase deposits (including custodial deposits for our agency servicing portfolio) or to raise capital. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase our cost of funds.Our ability to make mortgage loans and fund our investments and operations depends largely on our ability to secure funds on terms acceptable to us. Our primary sources of funds to meet our financing needs include loan sales and securitizations; deposits, which include custodial accounts from our servicing portfolio and brokered deposits and public funds; borrowings from the FHLB or other federally backed entities; borrowings from investment and commercial banks through repurchase agreements; and capital-raising activities. If we are unable to maintain any of these financing arrangements, are restricted from accessing certain of these funding sources by our regulators, are unable to arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on any of the covenants imposed upon us by our borrowing facilities, then we may have to reduce the number of loans we are able to originate for sale in the secondary market or for our own investment or take other actions that could have other negative effects on our operations. A sudden and significant reduction in loan originations that occurs as a result could adversely impact our earnings, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. There is no guarantee that we will be able to renew or maintain our financing arrangements or deposits or that we will be able to adequately access capital markets when or if a need for additional capital arises.Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit or other relationships between and among institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as "systemic risk" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as banks with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us.We may be required to raise capital at terms that are materially adverse to stockholders.During past years, capital was raised at terms that were significantly dilutive to the stockholders. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer additional losses or that additional capital will not otherwise be required for regulatory or other reasons. In those circumstances, we may be required to obtain additional capital to maintain regulatory capital ratios at or above their current levels. Such capital raising could be at terms that are dilutive to existing stockholders and there can be no assurance that any capital raising undertaken would be successful.37Regulatory RiskOur business is highly regulated and the regulations applicable to us are subject to change.The banking industry is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured financial institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. Currently, the Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC, the FDIC and the CFPB. In addition, the Federal Reserve is responsible for supervising and regulating all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including us. The Federal Reserve is also authorized to impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies and subject such companies to new and potentially heightened examination and reporting requirements. Savings and loan holding companies, including us, are also required to serve as a source of financial strength to their financial institution subsidiaries. The OCC is the primary regulator of the Bank and its affiliated entities. In addition to its regulatory powers, the OCC has significant enforcement authority that it can use to address banking practices that it believes to be unsafe and unsound, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. The FDIC also has significant regulatory authority over the Bank and may impose further regulation at its discretion for the protection of the DIF. Such regulation and supervision are intended primarily for the protection of the DIF and for the Bank’s depositors and borrowers, and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our securities. The CFPB is responsible for enforcement of the principal federal consumer protection laws over institutions that have assets of $10 billion or more, such as the Bank.Further, the Bank's business is affected by consumer protection laws and regulation at the state and federal level, including a variety of consumer protection provisions, many of which provide for a private right of action and pose a risk of class action lawsuits. In the current environment, there have been, and will likely be, significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regime in light of recent government intervention in the financial services industry, and it is not possible to predict the impact of all such changes on our results of operations. Changes to, or in the interpretation or implementation of, statutes, regulations or policies, heightened regulatory scrutiny, requirements or expectations, implementation of new government programs and plans, and changes to judicial interpretations of statutes or regulations could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. For example, regulators' views of capital adequacy has been evolving since the economic recession. As a result, while we have historically operated at lower Tier 1 capital levels, we are currently operating at a Tier 1 capital ratio of greater than 9 percent and do not currently intend to operate at lower Tier 1 capital levels in the future. Among other things, such changes, as well as the implementation of such changes, could result in unintended consequences and could subject us to additional costs, constrain our resources, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer, increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, and/or reduce our ability to effectively hedge against risk. The Bank has entered into a Consent Order with the OCC, which requires the Bank to adopt or review and revise various plans, policies and procedures related to, among other things, regulatory capital, enterprise risk management and liquidity. While subject to the Consent Order, the Bank's management and board of directors will be required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Non-compliance with the Consent Order may lead to additional corrective actions by the OCC which could negatively impact our operations and financial performance. Effective October 23, 2012, the Bank entered into a Consent Order with the OCC. Under the Consent Order, the Bank is required to adopt or review and revise various plans, policies and procedures related to, among other things, regulatory capital, enterprise risk management and liquidity. Specifically, under the terms of the Consent Order, the Bank's board of directors has agreed to, among other things, take the following actions: •Review, revise, and forward to the OCC a written capital plan for the Bank covering at least a three-year period and establishing projections for the Bank's overall risk profile, earnings performance, growth expectations, balance sheet mix, off-balance sheet activities, liability and funding structure, capital and liquidity adequacy, as well as a contingency capital funding process and plan that identifies alternative capital sources should the primary sources not be available;•Adopt and forward to the OCC a comprehensive written liquidity risk management policy that systematically requires the Bank to reduce liquidity risk; and•Develop, adopt, and forward to the OCC a written enterprise risk management program that is designed to ensure that the Bank effectively identifies, monitors, and controls its enterprise-wide risks, including by developing risk limits for each line of business.The Bank has submitted or will submit these plans, policies and procedures to the OCC for a written determination that the OCC has no supervisory objection to them. Upon the Bank's receipt of no supervisory objection from the OCC, the Consent Order requires the Bank to implement and ensure adherence to the plans, policies and procedures.38While subject to the Consent Order, the Bank's management and Board of Directors will be required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms, which could adversely affect our financial performance. There is also no guarantee that the Bank will be able to fully comply with the Consent Order. In the event the Bank is in material non-compliance with the terms of the Consent Order, the OCC has the authority to subject the Bank to additional corrective actions. In particular, if the Bank fails to submit a written capital plan within a time period acceptable to the OCC, or fails to implement a written capital plan for which the OCC has provided a written determination of no supervisory objection, then at the sole discretion of the OCC, the Bank may be deemed undercapitalized for purposes of the Consent Order. If the OCC determines that the Bank is undercapitalized for purposes of the Consent Order, it may at its discretion impose additional certain corrective actions on the Bank's operations that are applicable to undercapitalized institutions. These corrective actions could negatively impact the Bank's operations and financial performance.We remain subject to the restrictions and conditions of the Supervisory Agreement. Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement could result in further enforcement action against us, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.We remain subject to the Supervisory Agreement, which requires that we take certain actions to address issues identified by the OTS. The Supervisory Agreement is enforced by the Federal Reserve as a successor regulator to the OTS. While we believe that we have taken numerous steps to comply with, and intend to comply in the future with, the requirements of the Supervisory Agreement, failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement in the time frames provided, or at all, could result in additional enforcement orders or penalties from our regulators, which could include further restrictions on us, assessment of civil money penalties on us, as well as our directors, officers and other affiliated parties and removal of one or more officers and/or directors. Such actions, if initiated, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity.Financial services reform legislation has resulted in, among other things, numerous restrictions and requirements which could negatively impact our business and increase our costs of operations.The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. As a result, various federal agencies were required to adopt a broad range of new implementation rules and regulations and are given significant discretion in drafting the implementation rules and regulations. Consequently, it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of Dodd-Frank Act on us or the Bank, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Nor can we predict the impact or substance of other future legislation or regulation. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and potentially our interest expense. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act did not address reform of the GSEs. While options for the reform of the GSEs have been released no specific reform proposal has been enacted. The results of any such reform, and its effect on us, are difficult to predict and may result in unintended consequences.Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will adversely affect our earnings.Since late 2008, the economic environment has caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the DIF. As a result, we were required to pay higher deposit insurance premiums and special assessments that adversely affect our earnings. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to substantially revise its regulations for determining the amount of an institution's deposit insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act also made changes, among other things, to the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF, increasing the minimum from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent of the estimated amount of total insured deposits, and eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to financial institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. The FDIC has established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal beyond what is required by statute. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC implemented a new assessment rate schedule, which included changing the deposit insurance assessment base to an amount equal to the insured institution's average consolidated total assets during the assessment period minus average tangible equity and requiring the use of a scorecard that combines CAMELS ratings with certain forward looking information. These changes resulted in increases to our FDIC deposit insurance premiums, and we could be subject to higher deposit insurance premiums and special assessments in the future that could adversely affect our earnings.39We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny with respect to bank secrecy and anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. In recent years, regulators have intensified their focus on bank secrecy and anti-money laundering, statutes, regulations and compliance requirements, as well as compliance with the rules enforced by OFAC, and we have been required to revise policies and procedures and install new systems in order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area. More recently, the Bank agreed in the Consent Order to review and revise the Bank's bank secrecy and anti-money laundering risk assessment and written program of policies and procedures adopted in accordance with the Bank Secrecy Act and update the status of the Bank's plan and timeline for the implementation of enhanced bank secrecy and anti-money laundering internal controls. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place or may in the future put in place are or will be successful. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are and will be in full compliance with these requirements or the Consent Order. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even for inadvertent or unintentional violations. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal and regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by OFAC that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described below and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.The impact of the new Basel III capital standards is uncertain.In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued its framework for strengthening capital and liquidity requirements (together, "Basel III"). Basel III imposes, if implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies, new minimum capital requirements on banking institutions, as well as a capital conservation buffer and, if applicable, a countercyclical capital buffer that can be used by banks to absorb losses during periods of financial and economic stress. In addition, Basel III limits the inclusion of MSRs and deferred tax assets to 10 percent of Common Equity Tier 1 (as defined in the Basel III final framework, "CET1"), individually, and 15 percent of CET1, in the aggregate. Our MSRs and deferred tax assets currently significantly exceed the limit, and there is no assurance that they will be includable in CET1 in the future. Basel III also proposes minimum liquidity measures.In June 2012, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies requested comment on three sets of proposed rules that implement the Basel III capital framework and also make other changes to U.S. regulatory capital standards for banking institutions, which rules were to become effective under a phase-in period beginning January 1, 2013. However, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies announced on November 9, 2012 that the implementations of the proposed Basel III rules would be delayed. In addition, the Basel Committee is considering further amendments to Basel III. Accordingly, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially different from the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010 and the rules proposed by the U.S. bank regulatory agencies in June 2012, but may result in higher capital and liquidity requirements which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may not be able to resume making future payments of dividends on our capital stock and interest on trust preferred securities. In early 2012, we provided notice to the U.S. Treasury exercising our contractual right to defer our regularly scheduled quarterly payments of dividends, beginning with the February 2012 payment, on preferred stock issued and outstanding in connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. We also exercised our contractual right to defer interest payments with respect to our trust preferred securities. As a result of such deferrals, we are prohibited from making dividend payments on our capital stock, because the terms of the preferred stock and the trust preferred securities prohibit dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions of certain equity securities until all accrued and unpaid dividends and interest are paid, subject to limited exceptions. There can be no assurances that we will be able to resume making these dividend and interest payments in the future, and our inability to do so after a number of quarters may cause us to default on those obligations. In addition, our ability to make dividend payments is subject to the limitations set forth in the Supervisory Agreement, which provides that we must receive the prior written non-objection of the Federal Reserve in order to pay dividends, and to the 40receipt of dividends from the Bank, which are restricted by the Consent Order. Also, under Michigan law, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our capital stock if, after giving effect to the dividend, (i) we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or (ii) our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders with preferential rights on dissolution which are superior to those receiving the dividend. Operational RiskWe have restructured our executive team, and our ability to execute our revised business strategy may not prove successful.Many of our executive officers are serving in new capacities, and several of our directors have been appointed to the board of directors for a relatively short period of time. Since the restructuring, which began on October 1, 2012 and continued through the fourth quarter 2012, the executive team has devoted substantial efforts to significantly change our business strategy and operational activities. There is no assurance that these efforts will prove successful or that the executive team will be able to successfully execute upon the revised business strategy and operational activities. We depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services that are critical to our business. If one or more of our institutional counterparties defaults on its obligations to us or becomes insolvent, it could have a material adverse affect on our earnings, liquidity, capital position and financial condition.We face the risk that one or more of our institutional counterparties may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. We believe that our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with third-party providers of credit enhancement on the mortgage assets that we hold in our investment portfolio, including mortgage insurers and financial guarantors, issuers of securities held on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, and derivatives counterparties. Counterparty risk can also adversely affect our ability to acquire, sell or hold MSRs in the future. For example, because MSRs are a contractual right, we may be required to sell the MSRs to counterparties. The challenging mortgage and credit market conditions have adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, the liquidity and financial condition of a number of our institutional counterparties, particularly those whose businesses are concentrated in the mortgage industry. One or more of these institutions may default in its obligations to us for a number of reasons, such as changes in financial condition that affect their credit ratings, a reduction in liquidity, operational failures or insolvency. Several of our institutional counterparties have experienced economic hardships and liquidity constraints. These and other key institutional counterparties may become subject to serious liquidity problems that, either temporarily or permanently, negatively affect the viability of their business plans or reduce their access to funding sources. The financial difficulties that a number of our institutional counterparties are currently experiencing may negatively affect the ability of these counterparties to meet their obligations to us and the amount or quality of the products or services they provide to us. A default by a counterparty with significant obligations to us could result in significant financial losses to us and could have a material adverse effect our ability to conduct our operations, which would adversely affect our earnings, liquidity, capital position and financial condition. In addition, a default by a counterparty may require us to obtain a substitute counterparty which may not exist in this economic climate and which may, as a result, cause us to default on our related financial obligations.Current and further deterioration in the housing market, as well as the number of programs that have been introduced to address the situation by government agencies and government sponsored enterprises, may lead to increased costs to service loans which could affect our margins or impair the value of our MSRs.The housing and the residential mortgage markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. In response, federal and state government, as well as the GSEs, have developed a number of programs and instituted a number of requirements on servicers in an effort to limit foreclosures and, in the case of the GSEs, to minimize losses on loans that they guarantee or own. These additional programs and requirements may increase operating expenses or otherwise change the costs associated with servicing loans for others, which may result in lower margins or impairment in the expected value of our MSRs.We may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions. We act as servicer for mortgage loans owned by third parties. As a servicer for those loans we have certain contractual obligations, including foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent applicable, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, causing us to lose servicing income. 41For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a significant reduction to net servicing income within our mortgage banking noninterest income. We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. We may incur liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs may be negatively affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. We may be subject to fines and other sanctions imposed by Federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other mortgage loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or negatively affect our home lending or servicing business.We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities, which estimates may prove to be incorrect and result in significant declines or increases in valuation.A portion of our assets and liabilities are carried on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at fair value, including our MSRs, certain mortgage loans held-for-sale, trading assets, available-for-sale securities, derivatives, the future obligations arising from our settlement with the DOJ, and transferors' interests, or the beneficial interests in the HELOC securitization trusts that we receive in exchange for the funds we are obligated to advance to pay for subsequent additional draws on the lines of credit during a rapid amortization period. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices, when available or internal valuation models that utilize observable market data inputs to estimate their fair value. In certain cases, observable market prices and data may not be readily available or their availability may be diminished due to market conditions. We use financial models to value certain of these assets and liabilities. These models are complex and use asset specific collateral data and market inputs for interest rates. We cannot assure you that the models or the underlying assumptions will prove to be predictive and remain so over time, and therefore, actual results may differ from our models. Any assumptions we use are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and actual experience may differ from our assumptions. Different assumptions could result in significant declines in valuation, which in turn could result in significant declines or increases in the dollar amount of assets or increases in the liabilities we report on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify buyers against losses in some circumstances, which could harm liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.When mortgage loans are sold, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to purchasers, guarantors and insurers, including the GSEs, about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Whole loan sale agreements require repurchase or substitute mortgage loans, or indemnify buyers against losses, in the event we breach these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. With respect to loans that are originated through our broker or correspondent channels, the remedies available against the originating broker or correspondent, if any, may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchasers, guarantors and insurers of mortgage loans against us. In addition, we also face further risk that the originating broker or correspondent, if any, may not have financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available. Therefore, if a purchaser, guarantor or insurer enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase and such demands are valid claims, the liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.Our representation and warranty reserve for losses could be insufficient.We currently maintain a representation and warranty reserve, formerly known as the secondary market reserve, which is a liability on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, to reflect best estimate of expected losses that have been incurred on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market, including to the securitized trusts in our private-label securitizations and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers and insurers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. Our representation and warranty reserve takes into account both our 42estimate of expected losses on loans sold during the current accounting period, as well as adjustments to our previous estimates of expected losses on loans sold, and may, based upon a number of factors, include the recent decision in our litigation with Assured. In addition, the OCC, as part of its supervisory function, periodically reviews our representation and warranty reserve. The OCC may require us to increase our representation and warranty reserve or to recognize further losses, based on its judgment, which may be different from that of our management. The results of such reviews could have an effect on the Bank’s reserves. In each case, these estimates are based on our most recent data regarding loan repurchases, and actual credit losses on repurchased loans. We also make increases to the representation and warranty reserve based on current loan sales which reduces our net gain on loan sales. Adjustments to our previous estimates are recorded as an increase or decrease in our representation and warranty reserve – change in estimate. Both the assumptions and estimates used could be inaccurate, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. If additional reserves are required, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our Mortgage Banking profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and resell a high volume of mortgage loans.Mortgage production, especially refinancing activity, declines in rising interest rate environments. While we have been experiencing historically low interest rates, the low interest rate environment likely will not continue indefinitely. When interest rates increase, there can be no assurance that our mortgage production will continue at current levels. Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our Mortgage Banking segment depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, in addition to our dependence on the interest rate environment, we are dependent upon (i) the existence of an active secondary market and (ii) our ability to profitably sell loans or securities into that market. If our level of mortgage production declines, the profitability will depend upon our ability to reduce our costs commensurate with the reduction of revenue from our mortgage operations.Our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by the GSEs and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Because the largest participants in the secondary market are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of the GSEs could, in turn, adversely affect our operations. In September 2008, the GSEs were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. government. Although to date, the conservatorship has not had a significant or adverse effect on our operations; it is currently unclear whether further changes would significantly and adversely affect our operations. The government and others have provided options to reform the GSEs, but the results of any such reform, and their impact on us, are difficult to predict. To date, no reform proposal has been enacted. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by the GSEs and other institutional and non-institutional investors. Our ability to remain eligible to originate and securitize government insured loans may also depend on having an acceptable peer-relative delinquency ratio for FHA loans and maintaining a delinquency rate with respect to Ginnie Mae pools that are below Ginnie Mae guidelines. In the case of Ginnie Mae pools, the Bank has repurchased past due loans to maintain compliance with the minimum required delinquency ratios. Although these loans are typically insured as to principal by FHA, such repurchases increase our liquidity needs, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to continue to purchase such loans out of the Ginnie Mae pools. In addition, due to our unilateral ability to repurchase such loans out of the Ginnie Mae pools, we are required to account for them on our balance sheet whether or not we choose to repurchase them, which could adversely affect our capital ratios.Any significant impairment of our eligibility with any of the GSEs could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity which could result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations. The profitability of participating in specific programs may vary depending on a number of factors, including our administrative costs of originating and purchasing qualifying loans and our costs of meeting such criteria.We are a holding company and therefore dependent on the Bank for funding of obligations and dividends. As a holding company without significant assets other than the capital stock of the Bank, our ability to service our debt or preferred stock obligations, including interest payments on debentures underlying the trust preferred securities, and dividend payments on the preferred stock we issued to the U.S. Treasury, is dependent upon available cash on hand and the receipt of dividends from the Bank on such capital stock. The declaration and payment of dividends by the Bank on all classes of its capital stock is subject to the discretion of the Bank's board of directors and to applicable regulatory and legal limitations, including the prior written non-objection of the OCC as a result of the Consent Order. If the Bank does not make dividend payments to us, we may not be able to service our debt or preferred stock obligations, which could have a material adverse effect of our financial 43condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the holding companies they supervise, including us.We may be exposed to other operational, legal and reputational risks.We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, disputes with employees and contractors, customers or outsiders, litigation, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data security, corporate governance and foreclosure practices, or our involvement in government programs, such as the TARP Capital Purchase Program, and may damage our reputation. Additionally, actions taken by government regulators and community organizations may also damage our reputation. This negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. For example, current public opinion regarding defects in the foreclosure practices of financial institutions may lead to an increased risk of consumer litigation, uncertainty of title, a depressed market for non-performing assets and indemnification risk from our counterparties, including the GSEs.Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws, poor implementation of systems or employee errors or tampering or manipulation of those systems could result in losses and may be difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are beyond our control (for example, computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages). We are further exposed to the risk that our third party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors as we are). These disruptions may interfere with service to our customers and result in a financial loss or liability.A disproportionate impact could be experienced from continued adverse economic conditions because our loans are geographically concentrated in only a few states.A significant portion of our mortgage loan portfolio is geographically concentrated in certain states, including California, Michigan, Florida, Washington and Arizona, which collectively represent approximately 63.3 percent of mortgage loans held-for-investment balance at December 31, 2012. In addition, 67.5 percent of commercial real estate loans held-for-investment are in Michigan at December 31, 2012. Continued adverse economic conditions in these markets could cause delinquencies and charge-offs of these loans to increase, likely resulting in a corresponding and disproportionately large decline in revenues and demand for our services and an increase in credit risk and the value of collateral for our loans to decline, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans.We may incur additional costs and expenses relating to foreclosure procedures. Officials in 50 states and the District of Columbia have announced a joint investigation of the procedures followed by banks and mortgage companies in connection with completing affidavits relating to home foreclosures, specifically with respect to (i) whether the persons signing such affidavits had the requisite personal knowledge to sign the affidavits and (ii) compliance with notarization requirements. Although we are continuing to review, there are a number of structural differences between our business model and the resulting practices and those of the larger servicers that have been publicized in the media. For example, we do not engage in the practice of bulk purchases of loans from other servicers or investors, nor have engaged in any acquisitions that typically result in multiple servicing locations and integration issues from both a processing and personnel standpoint. As a result, we are not required to service seasoned loans following a transfer and all of the servicing functions are performed in one location and on one core operating system. In addition, we sell servicing rights with some regularity and the sale of servicing rights has allowed for a more reasonable volume of loans that staff has to manage. Despite these structural differences, we expect to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with foreclosure procedures. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not incur additional costs and expenses as a result of legislative, administrative or regulatory investigations or actions relating to foreclosure procedures. We could, as a result of a stock offering or future trading activity in our common or preferred stock, experience an "ownership change" for tax purposes that could cause us to permanently lose a portion of U.S. federal deferred tax assets.As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our net deferred tax assets were approximately $322.1 million and $221.5 million, respectively, which includes both federal and state operating losses. These net deferred tax assets were fully offset by valuation allowances of the same amounts. As of December 31, 2012, our federal net operating loss carry forwards totaled approximately $712.6 million. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income will be significantly limited if we experience 44an "ownership change" as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. MP Thrift, our controlling stockholder, held approximately 63.7 percent of common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result of MP Thrift's ownership, issuances or sales of common stock or other securities in the future or certain other direct or indirect changes in ownership, could result in an "ownership change" under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Section 382 of the Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s net operating losses, certain recognized built-in losses, and other carryovers after an "ownership change" occurs. An "ownership change" is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain "five percent shareholders" during the testing period, which is generally the three year-period ending on the transaction date. Upon an "ownership change," a corporation generally is subject to an annual limitation on its prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses equal to the value of the corporation’s market capitalization immediately before the "ownership change" multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation is increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Since U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation also effectively provides a cap on the cumulative amount of prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses in excess of the cap are effectively lost.The relevant calculations under Section 382 of the Code are technical and highly complex. Any stock offering, combined with other ownership changes, could cause us to experience an "ownership change." If an "ownership change" were to occur, we believe it could cause us to permanently lose the ability to realize a portion of our deferred tax asset, resulting in reduction to total shareholders’ equity.Even if there is an "ownership change," and part or all of our deferred tax assets would be limited, our obligations under the terms of the DOJ Agreement would not be relieved. Moreover, if we or the Bank are party to a business transaction so large that it causes the deferred tax asset to be completely eliminated, then 12 months following the transaction we, or our successor, are required to begin making the Additional Payments required under the DOJ Agreement, for more information see Item 1. Business.We may be subject to additional risks as we enter new lines of business or introduce new products and services.From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.General Risk FactorsOur potential loss of key members of senior management or our inability to attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future could affect our ability to operate effectively.We depend on the services of existing senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand and as we continue to refine and reshape our business model, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional senior management and recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel that leave our employ. In addition, as we continue to grow our business and plan to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel. Competition for such personnel is especially keen in our geographic market areas and competition for the best people in most businesses in which we engage can be intense. In addition, so long as our preferred stock that was issued as part of TARP is held by the U.S. Treasury, ARRA limits the amount of incentive compensation that can be paid to certain executives. The effect could be to limit our ability to attract and retain senior management in the future. If we are unable to attract and retain talented people, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of any senior management personnel, and, in particular, the loss for any reason, including death or disability of our chairman and chief executive officer or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and prospects.45Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. Although we have made, and continue to make, material changes to our risk management framework, in part due to guidance provided by our regulators and consultants, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could have a materially adversely effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Our network and computer systems on which we depend could fail, experience an interruption, or experience a breach in security.Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Market acceptance of Internet banking depends substantially on widespread adoption of the Internet for general commercial and financial services transactions. If another provider of commercial services through the Internet were to suffer damage from physical break-in, security breach or other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users, the growth and public acceptance of the Internet for commercial transactions could suffer. This type of event could deter our potential customers or cause customers to leave us and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.To date we have not experienced any material incidents relating to cyber-security or other forms of information security breaches, although there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future given the rapidly expanding and evolving cybersecurity threats that exists today. This is especially true because techniques used tend to change frequently or would not be recognized until launched, and attacks can originate from a wide array of sources, including unrelated third parties. These risks may increase in the future given our increased emphasis on Internet based products and services, including mobile banking and mobile payments. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or refine our protective measures against these threats.We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result 46in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.General business, economic and political conditions may significantly affect our earnings.Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, recession, unemployment, real estate values, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which we conduct business. If any of these conditions worsen, our business and earnings could be adversely affected. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively impact household incomes could decrease the demand for our home loans and increase the number of customers who become past due or default on their loans; or, a rising interest rate environment could decrease the demand for loans.In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States, and the perception of those policies by the financial markets. The Federal Reserve’s policies influence both the financial markets and the size and liquidity of the mortgage origination market, which significantly impacts the earnings of our mortgage lending operation and the value of our investment in MSRs and other retained interests. The Federal Reserve’s policies and perceptions of those policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies or perceptions are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We are a controlled company that is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements.Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. The NYSE generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires audit, compensation and nominating committees to be composed solely of independent directors. However, under the rules applicable to the NYSE, if another company owns more than 50 percent of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a "controlled company" and exempt from rules relating to independence of the board of directors and the compensation and nominating committees. We are a controlled company because MP Thrift beneficially owns more than 50 percent of our outstanding voting stock. A majority of the directors on the compensation and nominating committees are affiliated with MP Thrift. MP Thrift has the right, if exercised, to designate a majority of the directors on the board of directors. Our stockholders do not have, and may never have, all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. If we become unable to continue to be deemed a controlled company, we would be required to meet these independence requirements and, if we are not able to do so, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE.Our controlling stockholder has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, whether or not such decisions are in the best interests of other stockholders.MP Thrift beneficially owns a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock and as a result, has control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and also the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our board of directors or the stockholders regardless of whether or not other members of our board of directors or stockholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. So long as MP Thrift continues to hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors and other matters being voted on, and continue to exert significant influence over us.Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may from time to time experience weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that can affect our recording and reporting of financial information. In some cases we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. For example, on December 20, 2012, the FASB issued for public comment a Proposed Accounting Standards Update, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Subtopic 825-15), that would substantially change the accounting for credit losses on loans 47and other financial assets held by banks, financial institutions and other organizations. The proposal would remove the existing "probable" threshold in U.S. GAAP for recognizing credit losses and instead require affected reporting companies to reflect their estimate of credit losses on financial assets over the lifetime of each such asset, broadening the range of information that must be considered in measuring the allowance for expected credit losses. This proposal, if adopted as proposed, will likely have a negative impact, potentially material, on our reported earnings and capital and could also have an impact on our lending to the extent that higher reserves are required at the inception of a loan.We are subject to a number of legal or regulatory proceedings which can be complicated and slow moving, thus making them difficult to predict.At any given time, we are defending ourselves against a number of legal and regulatory proceedings. Proceedings or actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, business improvement orders, or other results adverse to us, which could materially and negatively affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and may require material changes in our business, or cause us reputational harm. Moreover, claims asserted against us can be highly complicated and slow to develop, thus making the outcome of such proceedings difficult to predict or estimate early in the process. For example, Assured filed a lawsuit against the Bank in April 2011, the court issued a decision in February 2013, and the Bank plans to appeal the decision. Notwithstanding the Bank's intention to vigorously contest the decision on appeal and the expected lengthy duration of the appeal process, we decided in light of the court's decision to make an immediate, material increase in our accrual for pending and threatened litigation, which includes amounts for Assured, the litigation with MBIA, which raises legal and factual issues that are similar to Assured, and other pending and threatened litigation. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that we will continue to experience a high level of litigation and regulatory scrutiny and investigations relating to our business and operations. The results of these legal and regulatory proceedings could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or reputational harm. Although we establish accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, we do not have accruals for all legal proceedings where we face a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, our ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies. For a further discussion of the unpredictability of legal proceedings and describe some of our pending legal proceedings, see Note 29 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, herein.Other Risk FactorsThe above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.