ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors identified elsewhere in this Report, the most significant risk factors affecting our business include those set forth below. The below description of risk factors is not exhaustive, and readers should not consider the description of such risk factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect us. Market, Interest Rate, Credit and Liquidity RiskOur business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the mortgage and real estate markets, global financial markets and macro-economic conditions.Our business, and the financial services industry generally, have been materially and adversely affected by a significant and prolonged period of negative market and economic conditions. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to virtually all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes. Our business, in particular our Mortgage Banking business, was adversely affected by these issues. Furthermore, continued concerns regarding the recovery of the U.S. and global economies, unemployment, declines in real property values, global political and economic issues, such as political instability and sovereign debt defaults, access to credit and capital markets, high rates of delinquencies and defaults on loans and other factors have contributed to volatility and uncertainty in the mortgage and real estate markets, global financial markets and the U.S. economy. Though market conditions have improved somewhat, there can be no assurance that economic and market conditions will continue to improve or even that the existing improvements will be sustained. As a result, our results of operations could be affected. Moreover, unlike many of our competitors, we are subject to regulatory and other limitations, such as requirements under the Consent Order and the Supervisory Agreement, which could limit our ability to recover from the recession at the same pace as other financial services institutions.In addition, these negative market and economic conditions led to difficulty in refinancing for some of our commercial and residential mortgage customers and increased the rate of defaults and foreclosures. Furthermore, the decline in asset values in recent years resulted in considerable losses to the Bank and other secured lenders that historically have been able to rely on the underlying collateral value of their loans to minimize or eliminate losses. A significant portion of our loans-held-for-investment portfolio is comprised of loans collateralized by real estate in which we are in the first lien position. Although there have been signs of recovery, there can be no assurance that property values will continue to stabilize or improve, and if they decline again, there can be no assurance that the Bank will not incur credit losses. Deterioration in the housing and commercial real estate markets may lead to increased loss severities and increases in past due loans and nonperforming assets in our loan portfolios. Additionally, it is often expensive and difficult to pursue collection efforts and foreclosure proceedings due to regulatory and other issues, which could increase our costs or otherwise cause us to incur losses in our mortgage portfolio. Any of these effects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Any deterioration in the mortgage market may also reduce the number of new mortgages that we originate, increase the costs of servicing mortgages without a corresponding increase in servicing fees or adversely affect our ability to sell mortgage loans originated by us. Any such event could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, had combined in recent years to increase swap spreads, cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. Banks and other lenders suffered significant losses in recent years and often became reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. Volatility of interest rates could lead to increased prepayment rates and lower mortgage origination volume and sales, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.More than 80 percent of our revenues in 2013 and 2012, were realized from our Mortgage Banking segment. The residential real estate mortgage lending business is very sensitive to changes in interest rates, and low interest rates generally increase that business, while high interest rates generally cause that business to decrease. Thus, our performance normally has a strong correlation to interest rate levels. In particular, our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans made to others and investments and the rates we pay for deposits 40and other sources of funds, as well as the volume of mortgage loan originations and sales and the related fees received from our Mortgage Banking segment. Our net interest margin and our volume of mortgage originations and sales will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and global and domestic economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest margin and the mortgage origination volumes and sales for the Bank and for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors. A significant or prolonged change in prevailing interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increasing long-term interest rates may decrease our mortgage loan originations and sales. Generally, the volume of mortgage loan originations is inversely related to the level of long-term interest rates. During periods of low long-term interest rates, a significant number of our customers may elect accelerated prepayments as they seek to refinance their mortgages (i.e., pay off their existing higher rate mortgage loans with new mortgage loans obtained at lower interest rates). Our profitability levels and those of others in the mortgage industry have generally been strongest during periods of low and/or declining interest rates, as we have historically been able to sell the resulting increased volume of loans into the secondary market at a gain. Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage investment in Mortgage Servicing Rights ("MSRs") and other interest rate risks may be ineffective. We invest in MSRs to support mortgage strategies and to deploy capital at acceptable returns. We utilize derivatives and other fair value assets as economic hedges to offset changes in fair value of the MSRs resulting from the actual or anticipated changes in prepayments stemming from changing interest rate environments and to otherwise manage interest rate risk. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to maximize the benefit and minimize the adverse effect of changes in interest rates on our earnings over an extended period of time. In managing these risks, we look at, among other things, yield curves and hedging strategies. As such, our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term because the market value of our assets and related hedges may be significantly impacted either positively or negatively by unanticipated variations in interest rates. In particular, our portfolio of MSRs and our mortgage pipeline are highly sensitive to movements in interest rates, and hedging activities related to the portfolio. Our MSRs could lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments due to loan refinancing prompted, in part, by declining interest rates. Conversely, MSRs generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than anticipated. Our hedging strategies to manage these risks relating to our MSRs and interest rate volatility are highly susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, among other factors. In addition, when interest rates fluctuate, repricing risks arise from the timing difference in the maturity and/or repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions. While such repricing mismatches are fundamental to our business, they can expose us to fluctuations in income and economic value as interest rates vary. Our interest rate risk management strategies do not completely eliminate repricing risk. Although we use models to assess the impact of interest rates on mortgage related revenues, the estimates of revenues produced by these models are dependent on estimates and assumptions of future loan demand, prepayment speeds and other factors which may differ from actual subsequent experience. In addition, our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding assets and general market factors, many of which are outside of our control. If one or more of these assumptions and projections proves to be incorrect or our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may incur losses that would adversely impact earnings. Hedging strategies also involve transaction and other costs. The failure of our ability to effectively hedge interest rate risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase reserves. There is a risk of default with respect to all of our mortgages and other loans, and our remedies to collect, foreclose or otherwise recover may not fully satisfy the debt owed to us. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to provide for probable and inherent losses in our loans held for our investment portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses, however, may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The allowance for loan losses reflects management’s estimate of the probable and inherent losses in our portfolio of held-for-investment loans at the relevant statement of financial condition date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio, composition and maintaining our current revenue pace of the portfolio and economic factors. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to 41address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently subjective process that requires significant management judgment and is based on numerous assumptions. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers and real estate valuations, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, failure of borrowers and guarantors to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Moreover, our regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. Our regulators may recommend or require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to recognize further losses, based on their judgment, which may be different from that of our management or other regulators. Any increase in our loan losses could have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity, net earnings, or results of operations. The estimated fair value of available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on market conditions. Our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which are considered in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. Generally these changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates are viewed as temporary, which is consistent with experience. If we deem such decline to be other than temporary impairment ("OTTI") related to credit losses, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of noninterest income.In the past, we have recorded OTTI charges. Our securities portfolio is monitored as part of ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. Any changes in the fair value of our securities and/or any OTTI charges could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity, net earnings or results of operations.Liquidity is essential to our business and our inability to borrow funds, maintain or increase deposits or raise capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all could adversely affect our liquidity and earnings.We require substantial liquidity to meet our deposit and debt obligations as they come due, fund our operations and for potential unforeseen liabilities or losses, including without limitation those that could be incurred in connection the settlement of litigation, regulatory proceedings or other matters. Our access to liquidity could be impaired by our inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of deposits. Our access to external sources of financing, including deposits, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent on various factors including regulatory restrictions. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, downgrades in our debt ratings, declining financial results and losses, material changes to operating margins, financial leverage on an absolute or relative to peers, changes within the organization, specific events that adversely impact our financial condition or reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, balance sheet and capital structure, geographic and business diversification, interest rate fluctuations, market share and competitive position, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing funding transactions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of our credit or servicer standing with counterparties or a decline in our reputation within the marketplace and could result in our having a limited ability to borrow funds, maintain or increase deposits (including custodial deposits for our agency servicing portfolio) or to raise capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, in prior years, we raised capital on terms that were significantly dilutive to our stockholders, and we could be required to do so again in the future. We compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In the 42event that these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. Competition from these institutions may increase our cost of funds.Our ability to make mortgage loans and fund our investments and operations depends largely on our ability to secure funds on terms acceptable to us. Our primary sources of funds to meet our financing needs include loan sales and securitizations; deposits, which include custodial accounts from our servicing portfolio and brokered deposits and public funds; borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank or other federally backed entities; borrowings from investment and commercial banks through repurchase agreements; and capital-raising activities. If we are unable to maintain any of these financing arrangements, are restricted from accessing certain of these funding sources by our regulators, are unable to arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us or at all, or if we default on any of the covenants imposed upon us by our borrowing facilities, then we may have to reduce the number of loans we are able to originate for sale in the secondary market or for our own investment or take other actions that could have other negative effects on our operations. A significant or prolonged reduction in loan originations that occurs as a result could adversely impact our earnings, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. There is no guarantee that we will be able to renew or maintain our financing arrangements or deposits or that we will be able to adequately access capital markets when or if a need for additional capital arises.Our loan portfolio and geographic concentration could increase our potential for significant losses.More than 80 percent of our revenues in 2013 and 2012, were realized from our Mortgage Banking segment.Our mortgage loan portfolio also is geographically concentrated in certain states, including California, Michigan, Florida, Washington and Arizona. In addition, a significant number of commercial real estate loans held-for-investment are in Michigan. This concentration has made, and will continue to make, our loan portfolio particularly susceptible to downturns in the general economy and the real estate and mortgage markets in the geographic areas where we conduct our business activities. Adverse conditions, including unemployment, inflation, recession, natural disasters, declining property values, municipal bankruptcies and other factors in these markets could cause delinquencies and charge-offs of these loans to increase, likely resulting in a corresponding and disproportionately large decline in revenues and demand for our services and an increase in credit risk and the value of collateral for our loans to decline, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Furthermore, the economic, real estate market and other conditions in any one or more of our market areas may recover at a slower pace than any recovery in the U.S. real estate market generally. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, there are no assurances that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas when and if they do occur. Any efforts that we may undertake to diversify our loan portfolio and business activities against concentration risks may not be successful. We depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services that are critical to our business. If one or more of our institutional counterparties defaults on its obligations to us or becomes insolvent, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, liquidity, capital position and financial condition.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of market-making, trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We face the risk that one or more of our institutional counterparties may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. We believe that our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with third-party providers of credit enhancement on the mortgage assets that we hold in our investment portfolio, including mortgage insurers and financial guarantors, issuers of securities held on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, and derivatives counterparties. Furthermore, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one or more of our counterparties could lead to concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the industry. Counterparty risk can also adversely affect our ability to acquire, sell or hold MSRs in the future. Adverse mortgage and credit market conditions have adversely affected, and if recent positive trends are not sustained, they could again adversely affect, the liquidity and financial condition of a number of our institutional counterparties, particularly those whose businesses are concentrated in the mortgage industry. One or more of these institutions may default in its obligations to us for a number of reasons, such as changes in financial condition that affect their credit ratings, a reduction in liquidity, operational failures or insolvency. A default by a counterparty with significant obligations to us could result in significant financial losses to us and could have a material adverse effect our ability to conduct our operations, which would adversely affect our earnings, liquidity, capital position and financial condition. In addition, a default by a counterparty may require us to obtain a substitute counterparty which may not exist in this economic climate and which may, as a result, cause us to default on our related financial obligations. In addition, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This 43is sometimes referred to as "systemic risk" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as banks with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us.We use assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities, which assumptions and estimates may prove to be incorrect, resulting in significant declines or increases in valuation.Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. A portion of our assets and liabilities are carried on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at fair value, including our MSRs, certain mortgage loans held-for-sale, trading assets, available-for-sale securities, derivatives and the future obligations arising from our settlement with the DOJ. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices when available. In certain cases, observable market prices and data may not be readily available or their availability may be diminished due to market conditions. In such cases, we use internally developed financial models that utilize observable market data inputs as well as asset specific collateral data and market inputs for interest rates to estimate the fair value of certain of these assets and liabilities. These valuation models rely to some degree on managements’ assumptions, estimates and judgment, which are inherently uncertain. We cannot be certain that the models or the underlying assumptions will prove to be predictive and remain so over time, and therefore, actual results may differ from our models and assumptions. Different assumptions could result in significant declines in valuation, which in turn could result in significant declines or increases in the dollar amount of assets or increases in the liabilities we report on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment. If assumptions or estimates underlying our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition are incorrect, we may experience material losses.Regulatory RiskOur business is highly regulated and the regulations applicable to us are subject to change.The banking industry is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured financial institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way that we do business and could restrict the scope of our existing and future businesses, product offerings and operations, restrict our ability to pursue acquisitions and divestitures, reduce the profitability of products and services that we offer and make our products and services more expensive for our customers. Currently, the Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC, the FDIC and the CFPB. In addition, the Federal Reserve is responsible for supervising and regulating all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including us. The Federal Reserve is also authorized to impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies and subject such companies to new and potentially heightened examination and reporting requirements. Savings and loan holding companies, including us, are also required to serve as a source of financial strength to their financial institution subsidiaries, which means that the Federal Reserve expects us to be able to infuse capital into the Bank should its capital levels become inadequate. Thus, the Federal Reserve may discourage us from using up any capital-raising capacity so that, in the event we ever need to do so, we can raise funds to infuse capital into the Bank; the Federal Reserve also may insist, in the event that the Bank needs a capital infusion, that our duty to infuse capital takes priority of obligations to creditors. The OCC is the primary regulator of the Bank and its affiliated entities. In addition to its regulatory powers, the OCC has significant enforcement authority that it can use to address banking practices that it believes to be unsafe and unsound, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. The FDIC also has significant regulatory authority over the Bank and may impose further regulation at its discretion for the protection of the DIF. Such regulation and supervision are intended primarily for the protection of the DIF and for the Bank’s depositors and borrowers, and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our securities. The CFPB is responsible for enforcement of the principal federal consumer protection laws over institutions that have assets of $10 billion or more. If the Bank reports assets of less than $10 billion, it must do so for four consecutive quarters before it will be reclassified as a small institution. Since we believe the Bank’s assets will likely return to $10 billion in the near future, we will continue to operate if we are subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction. Further, the Bank's business is affected by consumer protection laws and regulation at the state and federal level, including a variety of consumer protection provisions, many of which provide for a private right of action and some of which pose a risk of class action lawsuits. In the current environment, there have been, and will likely be, significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regime in light of recent government intervention in the financial services industry, and it is not possible to predict the impact of all such changes on our results of operations. Changes to, or in the interpretation44or implementation of, statutes, regulations or policies, heightened regulatory scrutiny, requirements or expectations, implementation of new government programs and plans, and changes to judicial interpretations of statutes or regulations could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. For example, our regulators' views as to the adequacy of our capital has evolved since the economic recession. As a result, while we have historically operated at lower Tier 1 capital levels, we are currently operating at a Tier 1 capital ratio of greater than 9 percent and do not currently intend to operate at lower Tier 1 capital levels in the future. Among other things, such changes, as well as the implementation of such changes, could result in unintended consequences and could subject us to additional costs, constrain our resources, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer, increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, and/or reduce our ability to effectively hedge against risk. See the Regulatory discussion, in Item 1. Business, herein, for further discussion of regulations applicable to us.The Bank has entered into a Consent Order with the OCC, which requires the Bank to adopt or review and revise various plans, policies and procedures. Non-compliance with the Consent Order may lead to additional corrective actions by the OCC, civil penalties or other adverse actions, which could negatively impact our operations and financial performance. Effective October 23, 2012, the Bank entered into a Consent Order with the OCC. Under the Consent Order, the Bank is required to adopt or review and revise various plans, policies and procedures related to, among other things, regulatory capital; enterprise risk management and liquidity as well as capital; allowance for loan and lease losses and our representation and warranty reserve; internal audit; internal loan review; concentrations; Bank Secrecy Act risk assessment, program, internal controls, customer due diligence, and independent testing; compliance management; flood insurance; and information technology. See the Consent Order discussion, in Item 1. Business, herein. The Bank has submitted or will submit these plans, policies and procedures to the OCC for a written determination that the OCC has no supervisory objection to them. Upon the Bank's receipt of no supervisory objection from the OCC, the Consent Order requires the Bank to implement and ensure adherence to the plans, policies and procedures. Although management has commenced working to resolve the concerns of the OCC under the Consent Order, the OCC may not agree that it has resolved all of these issues. While subject to the Consent Order, the Bank's management and Board of Directors will be required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms, which could adversely affect our financial performance. There is also no guarantee that the Bank will be able to fully comply with the Consent Order. In the event the Bank is in material non-compliance with the terms of the Consent Order, the OCC has the authority to subject the Bank to additional corrective actions. In particular, if the Bank fails to submit a written capital plan within a time period acceptable to the OCC, or fails to implement a written capital plan for which the OCC has provided a written determination of no supervisory objection, then at the sole discretion of the OCC, the Bank may be deemed undercapitalized for purposes of the Consent Order. If the OCC determines that the Bank is undercapitalized for purposes of the Consent Order, it may at its discretion impose certain additional corrective actions on the Bank's operations that are applicable to undercapitalized institutions. These corrective actions could negatively impact the Bank's operations and financial performance. Moreover, in the event the OCC believes that the Bank has failed to comply with the Consent Order, it could initiate further enforcement actions against the Bank, seek an injunction requiring the Bank and its officers and directors to comply with the Consent Order and seek civil money penalties against the Bank and its officers and directors as well as against us. Any failure by the Bank to comply with the terms of the Consent Order or additional actions by the OCC could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Bank’s competitors may not be subject to similar actions, which could limit our ability to compete effectively.We remain subject to the restrictions and conditions of the Supervisory Agreement. Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement could result in further enforcement action against us, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.We remain subject to the Supervisory Agreement, which requires that we take certain actions to address issues identified by the OTS. The Supervisory Agreement is enforced by the Federal Reserve as a successor regulator to the OTS. That agreement requires submission of a capital plan, a prohibition on the declaration of dividends, a prohibition against any incursion of debt, a prohibition against affiliate transactions with limited exceptions, a limitation on severance and indemnification payments, prior notification of the Federal Reserve in the case of changes in directors or senior executive officers with such changes being subject to Federal Reserve approval, and a prohibition against entering into compensation or benefit arrangements for directors and senior executive officers without Federal Reserve approval. While we believe that we have taken numerous steps to comply with, and intend to comply in the future with, the requirements of the Supervisory Agreement, failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement in the time frames provided, or at all, could result in additional enforcement orders or penalties from our regulators, which could include further restrictions on us, assessment of civil money penalties on us, as well as our directors, officers and other affiliated parties and removal of one or more officers and/or directors. Such actions, if initiated, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. Moreover, our 45competitors may not be subject to similar actions, which could limit our ability to compete effectively. See the Supervisory Agreement discussion, in Item 1. Business, herein.Financial services reform legislation has resulted in, among other things, numerous restrictions and requirements which could negatively impact our business and increase our costs of operations.The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. As a result, various federal agencies were required to adopt a broad range of new implementation rules and regulations and are given significant discretion in drafting the implementation rules and regulations. Consequently, it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of Dodd-Frank Act on us or the Bank, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Nor can we predict the impact or substance of other future legislation or regulation. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and potentially our interest expense. In addition, compliance obligations will expose us to additional noncompliance risk and could divert management’s focus from our business operations. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act did not address reform of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (collectively, government sponsored entities or the "GSEs"). While options for the reform of the GSEs have been released, no specific reform proposal has been enacted. The results of any such reform, and its effect on us, are difficult to predict and may result in unintended consequences.The CFPB may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement. Compliance with any such changes may impact our operations. The CFPB has broad and unique rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers, including prohibitions against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The concept of what may be considered to be an "abusive" practice is new under the law. Moreover, the Bank will be supervised and examined by the CFPB for compliance with the CFPB’s regulations and policies. While the full scope of the CFPB’s rulemaking and regulatory agenda relating to the mortgage industry remains unclear, it has already been active in issuing guidelines, rules and regulations affecting our business, and it has also been active in enforcing consumer financial protection laws against mortgage originators and servicers. The CFPB and regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act or by the CFPB could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our businesses, result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of our business activities, increased costs and potential litigation associated with our business activities and materially limit and restrict the Bank’s business, product offerings and services. Furthermore, our failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, would expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Expanded regulatory oversight over our business could significantly increase our risks and costs associated with complying with current and future regulations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of increasing scrutiny and regulation of the banking industry and consumer practices, we may face a greater number or wider scope of investigations, enforcement actions and litigation, thereby increasing our costs associated with responding to or defending such actions. In addition, increased regulatory inquiries and investigations, as well as any additional legislative or regulatory developments affecting our businesses, and any required changes to our operations resulting from these developments, could result in a loss of revenue, limit the products or services that we offer or increase the costs thereof, impose additional compliance costs, harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. Some of these laws may provide a private right of action that a consumer or class of consumers may seek to pursue to enforce these laws and regulations.We are highly dependent on the Agencies, and any changes in these entities or their current roles could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales depends significantly on programs administered by the Agencies, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, government agencies, including Ginnie Mae, and others that facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. These agencies play a critical role in the residential mortgage industry, and we have significant business relationships with many of them. We also derive other material financial benefits 46from these relationships, including the assumption of credit risk by these agencies on loans included in such mortgage securities in exchange for our payment of guarantee fees and the ability to avoid certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures.There is uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including with respect to how long they will continue to be in existence, the extent of their roles in the market and what forms they will have. Although the U.S. Treasury has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since they were placed into conservatorship, additional funding may not be provided within the required time periods or the actions of the U.S. Treasury may not be adequate for their needs. If such funding is not provided as required, the Federal Housing Finance Agency ("FHFA") would be obligated to place Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into receivership. Further, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could be placed into receivership at the discretion of the FHFA at any time under certain circumstances. If the actions of the U.S. Treasury are inadequate or pending repurchase requests by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to lenders prove unsuccessful, or if Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are adversely affected by events such as ratings downgrades, foreclosure problems and delays and problems with mortgage insurers, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. In addition, the future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be reduced or eliminated and the nature of the guarantees could be limited relative to historical measurements. The elimination or modification of the traditional roles of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these agencies, any significant adverse change in the level of activity of these agencies in the primary or secondary mortgage markets or in the underwriting criteria of these agencies could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the Agencies' guidelines or guarantees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to follow specific guidelines that impact the way that we service and originate agency loans, including guidelines with respect to credit standards for mortgage loans, our staffing levels and other servicing practices, the servicing and ancillary fees that we may charge, our modification standards and procedures and the amount of non-reimbursable advances.In particular, the FHFA has directed the Agencies to align their guidelines for servicing delinquent mortgages that they own or that back securities which they guarantee, which can result in monetary incentives for servicers that perform well and penalties for those that do not. In addition, the FHFA has directed Fannie Mae to assess compensatory penalties against servicers in connection with the failure to meet specified timelines relating to delinquent loans and foreclosure proceedings, and other breaches of servicing obligations.We cannot negotiate these terms with the Agencies and they are subject to change at any time. A significant change in these guidelines that has the effect of decreasing the fees we charge or requires us to expend additional resources in providing mortgage services could decrease our revenues or increase our costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, changes in the nature or extent of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or the insurance provided by the FHA could also have broad adverse market implications. The fees that we are required to pay to the Agencies for these guarantees have increased significantly over time and any future increases in these fees would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current or future regulations and programs to limit foreclosures and loan modifications may result in increased costs to service loans which could affect our margins or impair the value of our MSRs.The housing and the residential mortgage markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. In response, federal and state governments, as well as the Agencies, have developed a number of programs and instituted a number of requirements on servicers in an effort to limit foreclosures and, in the case of the Agencies, to minimize losses on loans that they guarantee or own. These additional programs and requirements may increase operating expenses or otherwise change the costs associated with servicing loans for others, which may result in lower margins or impairment in the expected value of our MSRs.47Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will adversely affect our earnings.Since late 2008, the economic environment has caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the DIF. As a result, we were required to pay higher deposit insurance premiums and special assessments that adversely affected our earnings. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to substantially revise its regulations for determining the amount of an institution's deposit insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act also made changes, among other things, to the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF, increasing the minimum from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent of the estimated amount of total insured deposits, and eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to financial institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. The FDIC has established a higher reserve ratio of 2 percent as a long-term goal beyond what is required by statute. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC implemented a new assessment rate schedule, which included changing the deposit insurance assessment base to an amount equal to the insured institution's average consolidated total assets during the assessment period minus average tangible equity and requiring the use of a scorecard that combines CAMELS ratings with certain forward looking information. These changes resulted in increases to our FDIC deposit insurance premiums. Moreover, if the FDIC believes we present a higher risk to the DIF than other banks because of significant risks relating to interest rates, loan portfolio and geographic concentration, concentration of high credit risk loans, increased loan losses, regulatory compliance (including under existing agreements with regulators such as the Consent Order and Supervisory Agreement), existing and future litigation and other factors, then we could be subject to higher deposit insurance premiums and special assessments in the future that could adversely affect our earnings. The Bank’s deposit insurance premiums and special assessments in the future also may be higher than competing banks may be required to pay.We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny with respect to bank secrecy and anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. In recent years, regulators have intensified their focus on bank secrecy and anti-money laundering statutes, regulations and compliance requirements, as well as compliance with the rules enforced by OFAC, and we have been required to revise policies and procedures and install new systems in order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area. More recently, the Bank agreed in the Consent Order to review and revise the Bank's bank secrecy and anti-money laundering risk assessment and written program of policies and procedures adopted in accordance with the Bank Secrecy Act and update the status of the Bank's plan and timeline for the implementation of enhanced bank secrecy and anti-money laundering internal controls. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place or may in the future put in place are or will be successful. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are and will be in full compliance with these requirements or the Consent Order. Banks that are not subject to consent orders have been heavily fined for violations of bank secrecy and anti-money laundering laws, and, thus, irrespective of compliance with the Consent Order, non-compliance with bank secrecy and anti-money laundering laws may result in significant fines.We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even for inadvertent or unintentional violations. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal and regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by OFAC that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described below and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.The impact of the new Basel III capital standards is uncertain.In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued its framework for strengthening capital and liquidity requirements (together, "Basel III"). Basel III will impose new minimum capital requirements on banking institutions, as well as a capital conservation buffer and, if applicable, a countercyclical capital buffer that can be used by banks to absorb losses during periods of financial and economic stress. In addition, Basel III limits the inclusion of MSRs and deferred tax assets to 10 percent of Common Equity Tier 1 (as defined in the Basel III final framework, "CET1"), individually, and 15 percent of CET1, in the aggregate. Our MSRs and deferred tax assets currently significantly exceed the limit, and there is no assurance that they will be includable in CET1 in the future. Basel III also proposes minimum liquidity measures.48In August 2012, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies requested comment on three sets of proposed rules that implement the Basel III capital framework. The first of the three rules addressed minimum capital requirements, regulatory capital, and additional capital "buffer" standards to enhance the resilience of banking organizations to withstand periods of financial stress. The second set of rules proposed revisions to the methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets incorporating aspects of the Basel II standardized approach and established alternative standards of creditworthiness in place of credit ratings. The final proposal included proposed changes to the U.S. bank regulatory agencies current advanced approaches risk-based capital rule.In July 2013, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies adopted an interim final rule ("the rule") that revises the risk-based and leverage capital requirements for banking organizations. The rule consolidates three separate notices of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal Register in August 2012, with selected changes. The rule implements a revised definition of regulatory capital, a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement, and a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement and requires new deductions from capital for investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, mortgage servicing assets and deferred tax assets that exceed specified thresholds. The rule incorporates these new requirements into the U.S. bank regulatory agencies prompt corrective action framework. In addition, the rule establishes limits on a banking organization's capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a specified amount of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. Further, the rule amends the methodologies for determining risk-weighted assets for all banking organizations. The rule also adopts changes to the U.S. bank regulatory agencies regulatory capital requirements that meet the requirements of section 171 and section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The rule codifies the U.S. bank regulatory agencies regulatory capital rules, which have previously resided in various appendices to their respective regulations, into a harmonized integrated regulatory framework. In addition, the OCC is amending the market risk capital rule (market risk rule) to apply to Federal savings associations, and the Federal Reserve is amending the advanced approaches and market risk rules to apply to top-tier savings and loan holding companies domiciled in the United States, except for certain savings and loan holding companies that are substantially engaged in insurance underwriting or commercial activities. The mandatory compliance date was January 1, 2014 for advanced approaches banking organizations that are not savings and loan holding companies and January 1, 2015 for all other covered banking organizations, with transitional provisions applicable to capital adjustments and deductions through December 31, 2017. Once fully phased in, the Basel III capital rules will significantly reduce the allowable amount of the fair value of MSRs and deferred tax assets included in Tier 1 capital. The effect of these requirements will be to require all banks and their holding companies, including us, to hold greater amounts of common equity capital than previously required.We are a holding company and therefore dependent on the Bank for funding of obligations and dividends. As a holding company without significant assets other than the capital stock of the Bank, our ability to service our debt or preferred stock obligations, including interest payments on debentures underlying the trust preferred securities, and dividend payments on the preferred stock we issued to the U.S. Treasury, is dependent upon available cash on hand and the receipt of dividends from the Bank on such capital stock. The declaration and payment of dividends by the Bank on all classes of its capital stock is subject to the discretion of the Bank's board of directors and to applicable regulatory and legal limitations, including the prior written non-objection of the OCC as a result of the Consent Order. If the Bank does not make dividend payments to us, we may not be able to service our debt or preferred stock obligations, which could have a material adverse effect of our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, under the Supervisory Agreement, the Federal Reserve has the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit our payment of dividends. We may not be able to resume making future payments of dividends on our capital stock and interest on trust preferred securities. We have not paid dividends on any of our stock in 2013 and 2012 and dividends on preferred stock were last paid in 2011. In addition, our ability to make dividend payments in the future is subject to the limitations set forth in the Supervisory Agreement, which provides that we must receive the prior written non-objection of the Federal Reserve in order to pay dividends, and to the receipt of dividends from the Bank, which are restricted by the Consent Order. In early 2012, we provided notice to the U.S. Treasury exercising our contractual right to defer our regularly scheduled quarterly payments of dividends, beginning with the February 2012 payment, on preferred stock issued and outstanding. We also exercised our contractual right to defer interest payments with respect to our trust preferred securities. Under the terms of the related indentures, we may defer interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters without default or penalty. As a result of such deferrals, we are prohibited from making dividend payments on our capital stock, because the terms of the preferred stock and the trust preferred securities prohibit dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions of certain equity securities until all accrued and unpaid dividends 49and interest are paid, subject to limited exceptions. Also, under Michigan law, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our capital stock if, after giving effect to the dividend, (i) we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or (ii) our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders with preferential rights on dissolution which are superior to those receiving the dividend. There can be no assurances that we will be able to resume making these dividend and interest payments in the future, and our inability to do so after a number of quarters may cause us to default on those obligations. Operational RiskWe recently restructured our executive team, and our new management team’s ability to execute our business strategy may not prove successful.We restructured our executive team in 2012 and 2013, and many members of our executive team are serving in new capacities, including in the position of chief executive officer. Moreover, several of our directors were elected to the board of directors relatively recently. We expect to experience additional changes in our senior management as we seek to fill certain key officer positions in various areas of our operations. These are significant changes implemented over a relatively short period of time. Some of our executive team members are in new positions or come from different companies and backgrounds, so it may take time for our new executive team to develop a coordinated management style. New executive teams also are generally more likely to experience turnover and may take more time to develop effective teamwork. Our restructured executive team has devoted substantial efforts to significantly change our business strategy and operational activities, yet there is no assurance that these efforts will prove successful or that the executive team will be able to successfully execute upon our business strategy and operational activities. Our challenges in attracting and retaining members of senior management and other qualified employees in the future could affect our ability to operate effectively.We depend on the services of our senior management and other qualified employees to carry out our business and investment strategies. We may experience challenges in attracting and retaining key members of senior management and other qualified employees due in part to our ongoing regulatory compliance issues, long-term performance issues and our geographic location away from other regions that have clusters of financial institutions. As we continue to refine and reshape our business model and execute our business plan, it is critical that we retain our senior management team and recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel that leave our employ. In addition, in order to grow and diversify our business, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking and other personnel. Furthermore, we depend on senior management and other key employees to meet our regulatory compliance requirements under applicable laws regulations and our obligations under the Consent Order and Supervisory Agreement. Competition for such personnel is intense in our geographic markets and the businesses in which we engage. In addition, we are required to receive regulatory approval prior to entering into compensation arrangements with certain executives and subject certain regulatory limitations on payments upon termination to any employee. The effect could be to limit our ability to attract and retain senior management in the future, because our competitors may not be subject to such approval requirements and limitations. If we are unable to attract and retain talented people, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of any senior management personnel, and, in particular, the loss for any reason, including death or disability of our chairman, our chief executive officer or other members of the executive team, or the inability to recruit and retain senior management and other qualified employees in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be subject to additional risks as we enter new lines of business or introduce new products and services.From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. For example, the Bank recently sold a substantial portion of its MSRs to a third party but will continue to act as the subservicer on all of the mortgage loans underlying such MSRs and thereby retain the right to receive certain fees relating to such subservicing activities but not certain liabilities associated with the MSRs. While management believes this model will be accretive to our business and help us successfully execute our business strategy, there are uncertainties associated with it. In addition, we continue to evaluate the expansion of our commercial and retail lending businesses. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these and any other efforts to enter into new lines of business or introduce new products and services, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets 50may not prove feasible. We may not be able to attract and retain talented employees to help develop and implement new lines of business or a new product or service. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may be terminated as a servicer or subservicer or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions. We act as servicer and subservicer for mortgage loans owned by third parties. In such capacities for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations, including foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent applicable, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, causing us to lose servicing income. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a significant reduction to net servicing income within our mortgage banking noninterest income. We may incur significant costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. We also may incur liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs may be negatively affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. We may be subject to fines and other sanctions imposed by Federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other mortgage loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or negatively affect our home lending or servicing business.We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify buyers against losses in some circumstances, which could harm liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.When mortgage loans are sold, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization required to make customary representations and warranties to purchasers, guarantors and insurers, including the Agencies, about the mortgage loans, and the manner in which they were originated. We have made, and will continue to make, such representations and warranties in connection with the sale and securitization of loans. Whole loan sale agreements require repurchase or substitute mortgage loans, or indemnify buyers against losses, in the event we breach these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. We also are subject to litigation relating to these representations and warranties and the costs of such litigation may be significant. With respect to loans that are originated through our broker or correspondent channels, the remedies available against the originating broker or correspondent, if any, may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchasers, guarantors and insurers of mortgage loans against us. In addition, we also face further risk that the originating broker or correspondent, if any, may not have financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available. Therefore, if a purchaser, guarantor or insurer enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase and such demands are valid claims, the liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.Our mortgage banking business depends, in part, upon third party mortgage originators who do not originate mortgages for us exclusively and over whom we have less control.Our Mortgage Banking segment depends, in part, upon the use of third party mortgage originators who are not our employees. These third parties originate mortgages and provide services to many different banks and other entities. Accordingly, they may have relationships with or loyalties to such banks and other parties that are different from those they 51have with or to us. Failure to maintain good relations with such third party mortgage originators could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we must rely on the third party mortgage originators in making and documenting the mortgage loans. While we perform investigations on the mortgage companies with whom we do business and review the loan files and loan documents we purchase to attempt to detect any irregularities or legal noncompliance, we have less control over these originators than employees of the Bank. Our ability to control the third party mortgage originators could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, these arrangements with third party mortgage originators and the fees payable by us to such third parties could be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and restrictions in the future.Our representation and warranty reserve for losses could be insufficient.We currently maintain a representation and warranty reserve, which is a liability on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, to reflect our best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market, including to the securitized trusts in our private-label securitizations and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers and insurers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. Our representation and warranty reserve takes into account both our estimate of probable losses inherent in loans sold during the current accounting period, as well as adjustments to our previous estimates of probable losses inherent in loans sold based upon a number of factors. In addition, the OCC, as part of its supervisory function, periodically reviews our representation and warranty reserve. The OCC may require us to increase our representation and warranty reserve or to recognize further losses, based on its judgment, which may be different from that of our management. The results of such reviews could have an effect on the Bank’s reserves. In each case, these estimates are based on our most recent data regarding loan repurchases, and actual credit losses on repurchased loans and rely on managements’ assumptions, estimates and judgment, which are inherently uncertain. We also make increases or decreases to the representation and warranty reserve based on current loan sales which reduces our net gain on loan sales. Adjustments to our previous estimates are recorded as an increase or decrease in our representation and warranty reserve - change in estimate. Both the assumptions and estimates used could be inaccurate, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. If additional reserves are required, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our Mortgage Banking segment profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and resell a high volume of mortgage loans.Our loan portfolio is significantly concentrated in residential mortgage loans. Mortgage originations, especially refinancing activity, decline in rising interest rate environments. While we have been experiencing historically low interest rates, the low interest rate environment likely will not continue indefinitely. When interest rates increase, there can be no assurance that our mortgage production will continue at current levels. Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our Mortgage Banking segment depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, in addition to our dependence on the interest rate environment, we are dependent upon (i) the existence of an active secondary market and (ii) our ability to profitably sell loans or securities into that market. If our level of mortgage production declines, the profitability will depend upon our ability to reduce our costs commensurate with the reduction of revenue from our mortgage operations.Our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by the Agencies and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Because the largest participants in the secondary market are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of the Agencies could, in turn, adversely affect our operations. In September 2008, the Agencies were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. government. Although to date, the conservatorship has not had a significant or adverse effect on our operations; it is currently unclear whether further changes would significantly and adversely affect our operations. The government and others have provided options to reform the Agencies, but the results of any such reform, and their impact on us, are difficult to predict. To date, no reform proposal has been enacted. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by the Agencies and other institutional and non-institutional investors. Our ability to remain eligible to originate and securitize government insured loans may also depend on having an acceptable peer-relative delinquency ratio for FHA loans and maintaining a delinquency rate with respect to Ginnie Mae pools that are below Ginnie Mae guidelines. In the case of Ginnie Mae pools, the Bank has repurchased past due loans to maintain compliance with the minimum required delinquency ratios. Although these loans are typically insured as to principal by FHA, such repurchases increase our liquidity needs, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to continue to purchase such loans out of the Ginnie Mae pools. In addition, due to our unilateral ability to repurchase such loans 52out of the Ginnie Mae pools, we are required to account for them on our balance sheet whether or not we choose to repurchase them, which could adversely affect our capital ratios.Any significant impairment of our eligibility with any of the Agencies could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity which could result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations. The profitability of participating in specific programs may vary depending on a number of factors, including our administrative costs of originating and purchasing qualifying loans and our costs of meeting such criteria.We may incur additional costs and expenses relating to foreclosure procedures. Officials in 50 states and the District of Columbia concluded a joint investigation of foreclosure practices across the industry and proposed significant changes in servicing practices related to foreclosures and substantial penalties, and, in the first quarter of 2012, DOJ announced that the federal government and attorneys general of 49 states (the state of Oklahoma reached a separate agreement) reached a $25 billion settlement agreement with five of the largest servicers to address mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure abuses. We were not a party to this settlement, but we reached a separate settlement with DOJ on related matters. Although we are continuing to review available information to ascertain the potential impact of the settlement agreement on servicing and foreclosure practices, there are a number of structural differences between our business model and the resulting practices and those of the larger servicers that have been publicized in the media. For example, we do not engage in the practice of bulk purchases of loans from other servicers or investors, nor have we engaged in any acquisitions that typically result in multiple servicing locations and integration issues from both a processing and personnel standpoint. As a result, we are not required to service seasoned loans following a transfer and all of the servicing functions are performed in one location and on one core operating system. In addition, we sell servicing rights with some regularity and the sale of servicing rights has allowed for a more reasonable volume of loans that our staff has to manage. Despite these structural differences, we expect to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with foreclosure procedures. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not incur additional costs and expenses as a result of legislative, administrative or regulatory investigations or actions relating to foreclosure procedures. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our inability to compete successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory and technological changes. With respect to mortgage loan origination, we face competition in such areas as mortgage loan offerings, rates, fees and customer service. With respect to mortgage servicing, we face competition in areas such as fees, performance in reducing delinquencies and entering into successful modifications. Competition in servicing mortgage loans and in originating or acquiring newly originated mortgage loans primarily comes from large commercial banks and savings institutions and other independent mortgage servicers and originators. Many of these institutions have significantly greater resources and access to capital than we do, which gives them the benefit of a lower cost of funds. In addition, technological advances and heightened e-commerce activities have increased consumers' accessibility to products and services. This has intensified competition among banks and non-banks, as applicable, in offering mortgage loans and commercial and retail banking services. If we are unable to compete successfully in our industry, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties, and any inaccurate or misleading information could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations and warranties of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well 53as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our financial results fluctuate as a result of the cyclical nature of our business and seasonality, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our mortgage origination business is subject to the cyclical and seasonal trends of the real estate market. Cyclicality in our industry could lead to periods of strong growth in the mortgage and real estate markets following by periods of sharp declines and losses in such markets. One of the primary influences on our mortgage banking business is the aggregate demand for mortgage loans in our market areas, which is affected by prevailing interest rates. If we are unable to respond to the cyclicality of our industry by timely and appropriately adjusting our operations, headcount and overhead, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, seasonal trends have historically reflected the general patterns of residential and commercial real estate sales, which typically peak in the spring and summer seasons. Although in recent periods the broader cyclical trends in the mortgage and real estate markets have disrupted the customary historical seasonal trends, such seasonal trends could resume in the future, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and make it difficult to predict our future operating performance.We may be exposed to other operational, legal and reputational risks.We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, disputes with employees and contractors, customers or outsiders, litigation, unauthorized transactions by employees, breaches of internal control systems and information systems and compliance requirements, business continuation, disaster recovery, or operational errors. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data security, corporate governance and foreclosure practices, or our involvement in government programs and may damage our reputation. Additionally, actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to any of the above may also damage our reputation. This negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. For example, current public opinion regarding defects in the foreclosure practices of financial institutions may lead to an increased risk of consumer litigation, uncertainty of title, a depressed market for nonperforming assets and indemnification risk from our counterparties, including the Agencies. We are further exposed to the risk that our third party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors as we are). These disruptions may interfere with service to our customers and result in the bank suffering reputational damage in addition to financial losses and/or liability.While we recently reversed the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, we may not be able to realize these assets in the future and they may be subject to additional valuation allowances, which could adversely affect our operating results.During 2009, we established a valuation allowance to reflect the reduced likelihood that we would realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets. Management assesses the valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets at each reporting period. The determination of whether a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is appropriate is subject to considerable judgment and requires an evaluation of all positive and negative evidence. As indicated by applicable accounting standards, it is inherently difficult to conclude a valuation allowance is not required when there is significant objective and verifiable negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. We utilize a rolling three years of actual and current year anticipated results as the primary measure of cumulative losses. The evaluation of deferred tax assets requires judgment in assessing the likely future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns and future profitability. Our accounting for deferred taxes represents our best estimate of those future events. Changes in our current estimates, due to unanticipated events or otherwise, could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Based on the weight of all the positive and negative evidence at December 31, 2013, management concluded that it was more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized based upon future taxable income and therefore, 54reversed 100 percent of the valuation allowance on our federal deferred tax asset and a portion of our state deferred tax asset at December 31, 2013.At December 31, 2013, approximately $321.0 million of our deferred tax assets was disallowed when calculating regulatory capital. Applicable banking regulations permit us to include these deferred tax assets, up to a maximum amount, when calculating our regulatory capital to the extent these assets will be realized based on future projected earnings within one year of the report date.The valuation allowance could fluctuate in future periods based on the assessment of the positive and negative evidence. Management's conclusion at December 31, 2013 that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be realized is based upon management's estimate of future taxable income. Management's estimate of future taxable income is based on internal projections which consider historical performance, various internal estimates and assumptions, as well as certain external data, all of which management believes to be reasonable although inherently subject to significant judgment. Factual results may differ significantly from the current estimates of future taxable income, even if caused by adverse macro-economic conditions, and if so, the valuation allowance may need to be increased for some or all of our deferred tax asset. Such an increase to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For a further discussion of the deferred tax asset, see Note 25 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, herein.General Risk FactorsOur framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. We have experienced significant issues relating to risk management, and our regulators, including the OCC, continue to focus on our risk management practices and deficiencies. We have recently faced issues with respect to continuity in our risk management practices following the departure of our chief risk officer in 2013. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. Although we have made, and continue to make, material changes to our risk management framework, in part due to guidance provided by our regulators and consultants, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future and risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. Furthermore, as our business changes or grows in the future, our risk management framework may not keep pace with such changes and developments, and we may not be able to appropriately identify, monitor or manage new risks associated with our changing business. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Our network and computer systems on which we depend could fail, experience an interruption, or experience a cybersecurity attack which could adversely affect our business, financial conditional and results of operations. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. If our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail, experience and interruption or breach in security or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, a significant risk related to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if another provider of commercial services through the Internet were to suffer damage from physical break-in, security breach or other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users, the use and continued public acceptance of the Internet for commercial transactions, including Internet banking, could suffer. This type of event could deter our potential customers or 55cause customers to leave us and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.To date we have not experienced any material incidents relating to cyber-security or other forms of information security breaches, although there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future given the rapidly expanding and evolving cybersecurity threats that exists today. This is especially true because techniques used tend to change frequently or would not be recognized until launched, and attacks can originate from a wide array of sources, including unrelated third parties. These risks may increase in the future given our increased emphasis on Internet based products and services, including mobile banking and mobile payments. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or refine our protective measures against these threats, and we may be unable to anticipate or implement effective preventative measures against security breaches. There are no assurances that our security measures or efforts to upgrade and maintain our computer and network systems and processes will be adequate and any failures, interruptions or security breaches could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.In the processing of consumer transactions, our businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The collection, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us and our businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our businesses may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by these businesses. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third-party vendors and service providers with whom we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of these businesses, discourage potential users from our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Lack of system integrity or credit quality related to funds settlement could adversely affect our results of operations. We settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include wire transfers, debit card, credit card and electronic bill payment transactions. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties and the facilitation of the payment. If the continuity of operations or integrity of our processing were compromised, it could result in a financial loss to us due to a failure in payment facilitation. In addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could adversely affect our results of operations. We are a controlled company that is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements.Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. The NYSE generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires audit, compensation and nominating committees to be composed solely of independent directors. However, under the applicable NYSE rules, if another company owns more than 50 percent of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a "controlled company" and exempt from rules relating to independence of the board of directors and the compensation and nominating committees. We are a controlled company because MP Thrift beneficially owns more than 50 percent of our outstanding voting stock. A majority of the directors on the compensation and nominating committees are affiliated with MP Thrift. MP Thrift has the right, if exercised, to designate a majority of the directors on the board of directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have, and may never have, the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. If we become unable to 56continue to be deemed a controlled company, we would be required to meet these independence requirements and, if we are not able to do so, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE. Our controlling stockholder has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, whether or not such decisions are in the best interests of other stockholders.MP Thrift beneficially owns a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock and as a result, has control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and also the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our board of directors or the stockholders regardless of whether or not other members of our board of directors or stockholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. So long as MP Thrift continues to hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors and other matters being voted on, and continue to exert significant influence over us. Furthermore, MP Thrift may have interests that could diverge from the interests of other stockholders. We could, as a result of a stock offering or future trading activity in our common or preferred stock, experience an "ownership change" for tax purposes that could cause us to permanently lose a portion of U.S. federal deferred tax assets. Our net deferred tax asset includes both federal and state operating losses. During the fourth quarter 2013, we reversed 100 percent of the valuation allowance on the federal DTA and a portion of the state DTA, which had been previously established as of September 30, 2009. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income will be significantly limited if we experience an "ownership change" as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. MP Thrift, our controlling stockholder held approximately 63.4 percent of common stock as of December 31, 2013. As a result of MP Thrift's ownership, issuances or sales of common stock or other securities in the future or certain other direct or indirect changes in ownership, could result in an "ownership change" under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Section 382 of the Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s net operating losses, certain recognized built-in losses, and other carryovers after an "ownership change" occurs. An "ownership change" is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain "five percent shareholders" during the testing period, which is generally the three year-period ending on the transaction date. Upon an "ownership change," a corporation generally is subject to an annual limitation on its prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses equal to the value of the corporation’s market capitalization immediately before the "ownership change" multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation is increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Since U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation also effectively provides a cap on the cumulative amount of prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Prechange losses and certain recognized built-in losses in excess of the cap are effectively lost.The relevant calculations under Section 382 of the Code are technical and highly complex. Any stock offering, combined with other ownership changes, could cause us to experience an "ownership change." If an "ownership change" were to occur, we believe it could cause us to permanently lose the ability to realize a portion of our deferred tax asset, resulting in reduction to total shareholders’ equity.Even if there is an "ownership change," and part or all of our deferred tax assets would be limited, our obligations under the terms of the DOJ Agreement would not be relieved. Moreover, if we or the Bank are party to a business transaction so large that it causes the deferred tax asset to be completely eliminated, then 12 months following the transaction we, or our successor, are required to begin making the Additional Payments required under the DOJ Agreement, for more information see Item 1. Business.Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may from time to time experience weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that can affect our recording and reporting of financial information. In some cases we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. 57We are subject to a number of legal or regulatory proceedings which can be complicated and slow moving, thus making them difficult to predict.At any given time, we are defending ourselves against a number of legal and regulatory proceedings. Proceedings or actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, business improvement orders or other results adverse to us, which could materially and negatively affect our businesses. If such claims and other matters are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. In addition, some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject may provide a private right of action that a consumer or class of consumers may pursue to enforce these laws and regulations. We also have been, and may continue to be in the future, subject to stockholder derivative actions, which could seek significant damages or other relief. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, claims asserted against us can be highly complicated and slow to develop, thus making the outcome of such proceedings difficult to predict or estimate early in the process. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that we will continue to experience a high level of litigation and regulatory scrutiny and investigations relating to our business and operations. The results of these legal and regulatory proceedings could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or reputational harm. Although we establish accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, we do not have accruals for all legal proceedings where we face a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, our ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies. For a further discussion of the unpredictability of legal proceedings and description of certain of our pending legal proceedings, see Note 28 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, herein.Other Risk FactorsThe above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.58