ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These risk factors include the following: General business, economic and political conditions may significantly affect our earnings. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, recession, unemployment, real estate values, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which we conduct business. If any of these conditions worsen, our business and earnings could be adversely affected. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively impact household incomes could decrease the demand for our home loans and increase the number of customers who become delinquent or default on their loans; or, a rising interest rate environment could decrease the demand for loans. 14 Table of Contents In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States, and the perception of those policies by the financial markets. The Federal Reserve’s policies influence both the financial markets and the size and liquidity of the mortgage origination market, which significantly impacts the earnings of our mortgage lending operation and the value of our investment in MSRs and other retained interests. The Federal Reserve’s policies and perceptions of those policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies or perceptions are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot effectively manage the impact of the volatility of interest rates, our earnings could be adversely affected. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to maximize the benefit and minimize the adverse effect of changes in interest rates on our earnings over an extended period of time. In managing these risks, we look at, among other things, yield curves and hedging strategies. As such, our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term because the market value of our assets and related hedges may be significantly impacted either positively or negatively by unanticipated variations in interest rates. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans made to others and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our profitability also depends in substantial part on the volume of loan originations and the related fees received in our mortgage banking operations. Our net interest margin and our volume of mortgage originations will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest margin and the mortgage origination volumes for the Bank and for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors. Our goal has been to structure our asset and liability management strategies to maximize the benefit of changes in market interest rates on our net interest margin and revenues related to mortgage origination volume. However, we can not give any assurance that a sudden or significant change in prevailing interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We manage the strategic interest rate risk in our home lending operation primarily through the natural counterbalance of our loan production and servicing operations. Increasing long-term interest rates may decrease our mortgage loan originations and sales. Generally, the volume of mortgage loan originations is inversely related to the level of long-term interest rates. During periods of low long-term interest rates, a significant number of our customers may elect to refinance their mortgages (i.e., pay off their existing higher rate mortgage loans with new mortgage loans obtained at lower interest rates). Our profitability levels and those of others in the mortgage banking industry have generally been strongest during periods of low and/or declining interest rates, as we have historically been able to sell the resulting increased volume of loans into the secondary market at a gain. We have also benefited from periods of wide spreads between short and long term interest rates. If interest rates rise after we fix a price for a loan or commitment but before we close or sell such loan, the value of the loan will decrease and the amount we receive from selling the loan may be less than its cost to originate. When interest rates fluctuate, repricing risks arise from the timing difference in the maturity and/or repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions. While such repricing mismatches are fundamental to our business, they can expose us to fluctuations in income and economic value as interest rates vary. Our interest rate risk management strategies do not completely eliminate repricing risk. A significant amount of our deposit liabilities are certificates of deposits, and these account holders may be more sensitive to the interest rate paid on their account than other depositors. There is no guarantee that in a changing rate environment we will be able to retain all of these depositors’ accounts. We also call on local municipal agencies as another source for deposit funding. While a valuable source of liquidity, we believe that municipal deposits are usually extremely rate sensitive and, therefore, prone to withdrawal if higher interest rates are 15 Table of Contents offered elsewhere. Because of the interest rate sensitivity of these depositors, there is no guarantee that in a changing rate environment we will be able to retain all funds in these accounts. Changes in interest rates may cause a mismatch in our mortgage origination flow of loans, or “pipeline” and adversely affect our profitability. In our mortgage banking operation, we are exposed to interest rate risk from the time we commit to an interest rate on a mortgage loan application through the time we sell or commit to sell the mortgage loan. On a daily basis, we analyze various economic and market factors to estimate the percentage of mortgage loans we expect to sell for delivery at a future date. The amount of loans that we commit to sell is based in part on our expectation of the pull-through percentage, which is the ratio of mortgage loans closed divided by the number of mortgage loans on which we have issued binding commitments (and thereby locked in the interest rate) but have not yet closed (“pipeline loans”). If interest rates change in an unanticipated fashion, the actual percentage of pipeline loans that close may differ from the projected percentage. A mismatch of commitments to fund mortgage loans and commitments to sell mortgage loans may have an adverse effect on the results of operations in any such period. For instance, we may not have made commitments to sell these additional pipeline loans and therefore may incur significant losses upon their sale if the market rate of interest is higher than the mortgage interest rate to which we committed on such additional pipeline loans. Alternatively, we may have made commitments to sell more loans than actually closed or at prices that are no longer profitable to us. Our profitability may be adversely affected to the extent our economic hedging strategy for pipeline loans is not effective. The value of our mortgage servicing rights could decline with reduction in interest rates. The market value of, and earnings from, our mortgage loan servicing portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in interest rates. When mortgage rates rise we would generally expect payoffs in our servicing portfolio to decline, which generally should result in increases to the fair value of our MSRs. When mortgage interest rates decline, mortgage loan prepayments tend to increase as customers refinance their loans. When this happens, the income stream from our current mortgage loan servicing portfolio may decline. In that case, we may be required to amortize the portfolio over a shorter period of time or reduce the carrying value of our mortgage loan servicing portfolio. Gains on Mortgage Servicing Rights May Be Difficult to Realize Due to Disruption in the Capital Markets. Historically, we have sold mortgage servicing rights in secondary sales in order to realize profits, manage our capital levels and control interest rate risk. In the current environment, MSRs may be more difficult to sell, as many of the traditional buyers have exited the market due to a lack of capital availability, concern about housing prices or other reasons. If we do not sell MSRs, it could affect our profitability, result in increased capital requirements or require that we specifically hedge this asset. We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, which estimates may prove to be incorrect and result in significant declines in valuation. A portion of our assets are carried on our statement of financial condition at fair value, including our initial capitalization of MSRs, trading assets and available for sale securities that represent certain retained interests from securitization activities, all other available-for-sale securities and derivatives. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or internal valuation models that utilize observable market data inputs to estimate their fair value. In certain cases, observable market prices and data may not be readily available or their availability may be diminished due to market conditions. We use financial models to value certain of these assets. These models are complex and use asset specific collateral data and market inputs for interest rates. We cannot assure you that the models or the underlying assumptions will prove to be predictive and remain so over time, and therefore, actual results may differ from our models. Any assumptions we use are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and actual experience may differ from our assumptions. Different assumptions could result in significant declines in valuation, which in turn could result in significant declines in the dollar amount of assets we report on our statement of financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Current and further deterioration in the housing and commercial real estate markets may lead to increased loss severities and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our reserves. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Unexpected losses may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control. As with most lending institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The allowance for loan losses reflects our estimate of the probable losses in our portfolio of loans at the relevant statement of financial condition date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Recently, the housing and the residential mortgage markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the loss severities of loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate owned. Problems in the United States’ residential real estate development industry could materially impact us. Poor economic conditions could result in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect the development and construction efforts of residential real estate developers. Consequently, such economic downturns could adversely affect the ability of such residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. Similar issues are arising in other markets, including commercial real estate. These problems faced by residential real estate developers and other commercial borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our secondary market reserve for losses could be insufficient. We currently maintain a secondary market reserve, which is a liability on our statement of financial condition, to reflect our best estimate of expected losses that we have incurred on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. Increases to this reserve for current loan sales reduce our net gain on loan sales, with adjustments to our previous estimates recorded as an increase or decrease to our other fees and charges. The level of the reserve reflects management’s continuing evaluation of loss experience on repurchased loans, indemnifications, recovery history, and present economic conditions, among other things. The determination of the appropriate level of the secondary market reserve inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of repurchase risks and expected losses. Both the assumptions and estimates used could change materially, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. Further, our bank regulators periodically review our secondary market reserve and may, in their discretion and based on their own judgment, which may differ from that of management, require us to increase the amount of the reserve through additional provisions. Such increases will result in a reduction in net earnings and could have an adverse effect on our statement of financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our home lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to resell mortgages. Currently, we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate. The profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and to sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, we are dependent upon (1) the existence of an active secondary market and (2) our ability to profitably sell loans or securities into that market. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Some of the largest participants in the secondary market, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law. Any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of such government-sponsored enterprises could, in turn, adversely affect our operations. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. We expect to remain eligible to participate in such programs, but any significant impairment of our eligibility could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity. The profitability of participating in specific programs may vary depending on a number of factors, including our administrative costs of originating and purchasing qualifying loans. Our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios carry heightened credit risk. In recent years, we have emphasized the origination of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. At December 31, 2007, our balance of commercial loans was $1.6 billion, which was 19.8% of loans held for investment and 10.1% of total assets. Loans collateralized by commercial real estate are generally thought to have a greater degree of credit risk than single-family residential mortgage loans and carry larger loan balances. This increased credit risk is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties, and the greater difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans collateralized by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate property. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Other commercial business loans generally have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans as well. Conversely, residential mortgage loans are generally made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment or other income, and are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may depend substantially on the success of the business itself. Further, any collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We have substantial risks in connection with securitizations and loan sales. Securitization and loan sale transactions comprise a significant source of our overall funding. Our sales channels include whole loan sales, sales to government-sponsored enterprises and sales through private-label securitizations. Private-label securitizations, sponsored by us, involve transfers of loans to off-balance sheet qualifying special purpose entities, which in turn issue securities to third parties. In a securitization transaction, we may recognize a gain or loss on sale resulting from related residuals and/or servicing rights in the securitized pool of loans when we sell or securitize the assets. The values assigned to the residuals and/or servicing assets depends upon certain assumptions that we make about the future performance of the securitized loan portfolio, including the level of credit losses and the rate of prepayments. Residuals, which are retained interests created in a mortgage loan securitization, typically 18 Table of Contents represent the first loss position and are not typically rated by a nationally recognized rating agency. If we hold the residuals, we are at risk for the initial losses that occur with these securitizations. Decreases in the value of the residuals and/or servicing assets in securitizations that we have completed due to market interest rate fluctuations, higher than expected credit losses on prepayments, or changes in the volume of assets securitized or sold due to our inability to access the asset-backed securitization markets or other funding sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to borrow funds and raise capital could be limited, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent on various factors and could be adversely affected by a deterioration of our credit ratings including our servicer rating, which are influenced by a number of factors. These include, but are not limited to: material changes in operating margins; earnings trends and volatility; the prudence of funding and liquidity management practices; financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers; the composition of the statement of financial condition and/or capital structure; geographic and business diversification; and our market share and competitive position in the business segments in which we operate. Material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of our credit or servicer ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. A reduction in our credit rating or servicing rating could cause the loss of custodial deposits for our agency servicing portfolio. Our ability to make mortgage loans depends largely on our ability to secure funds on terms acceptable to us. Our primary sources of funds to meet our financing needs include loan sales and securitizations, deposits, which include custodial amounts from our agency servicing portfolio, borrowings from the FHLB, borrowings from investment and commercial banks through repurchase agreements, and capital-raising activities. Our ability to maintain borrowing facilities is subject to renewal of these facilities. If we are unable to renew any of these financing arrangements or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on any of the restrictions imposed upon us by our borrowing facilities, then we may have to reduce the number of loans we are able to originate for sale in the secondary market or for our own investment. A sudden and significant reduction in loan originations that occurs as a result could adversely impact our earnings. There is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately access capital markets when or if a need for additional capital arises. We may be required to raise capital at terms that are materially adverse to our shareholders. We suffered a loss in excess of $39 million during 2007 and as a result, saw our shareholders’ equity and regulatory capital decline in the second half of the year. While we currently have regulatory capital ratios in excess of the “well capitalized” requirement, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer additional losses or that additional capital will not otherwise be required for regulatory or other reasons. In those circumstances, we may be required to obtain additional capital to maintain our regulatory capital ratios at the “well capitalized” level. Such capital raising could be at terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders and there can be no assurance that any capital raising we undertake would be successful given the current level of disruption in financial markets. Our holding company is dependent on the Bank for funding of obligations and dividends. As a holding company without significant assets other than the capital stock of the Bank, the Company’s ability to service its debt, including payment of interest on debentures issued as part of capital raising activities using trust preferred securities or pay dividends to stockholders, is dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank on such capital stock. The declaration of dividends by the Bank on all classes of its capital stock is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Bank and to applicable regulatory limitations. If the earnings of the Company’s subsidiaries are not sufficient to make dividend payments to the Company while maintaining adequate capital levels, the Company may not be able to make dividend payments to its common shareholders or service its debt. See “Item 1. Business — Regulation and Supervision — Payment of Dividends.” 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to replace key members of senior management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. We depend on the services of existing senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand and as we continue to refine our business model, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional senior management and to recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel that leave our employ. In addition, as we continue to grow our business and plan to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel. Competition for such personnel is especially keen in our geographic market areas and competition for the best people in most businesses in which we engage can be intense. If we are unable to attract and retain talented people, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of any senior management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. The network and computer systems on which we depend could fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on the ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance of Internet banking depends substantially on widespread adoption of the Internet for general commercial and financial services transactions. If another provider of commercial services through the Internet were to suffer damage from physical break-in, security breach or other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users, the growth and public acceptance of the Internet for commercial transactions could suffer. This type of event could deter our potential customers or cause customers to leave us and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly regulated. The banking industry is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured depository institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. The OTS is the primary regulator of the Bank and its affiliated entities. In addition to its regulatory powers, the OTS also has significant enforcement authority that it can use to address unsafe and unsound banking practices, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. Such regulation and supervision are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for our depositors and borrowers, and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Further, the Bank’s business is affected by consumer protection laws and regulation at the state and federal level, including a variety of consumer protection provisions, many of which provide for a private right of action and pose a risk of class action lawsuits. Accordingly, the actions of governmental authorities responsible for regulatory, fiscal and monetary affairs can have a significant and immediate impact on the activities of financial services firms such as ours. See further information in “Item 1. Business — Regulation and Supervision.” 20 Table of Contents Our business has volatile earnings because it operates based on a multi-year cycle. The home lending segment of our business is a cyclical business that generally performs better in a low interest rate environment with a yield curve that is lower at the shorter time frames and higher at the longer time frames. In addition, other external factors, including tax laws, the strength of various segments of the economy and demographics of our lending markets, could influence the level of demand for mortgage loans. Gain on sale of loans is a large component of our revenue and could be adversely impacted by a significant decrease in the volume of our mortgage loan originations to the extent the effect of the volume decline is not offset by an increase in the profit margins on such loans sales. Our loans are geographically concentrated in only a few states. A significant portion of our mortgage loan portfolio is geographically concentrated in certain states, including California, Michigan, Florida, Washington, Colorado, Texas and Arizona, which collectively represent approximately 67.3% of our mortgage loans held for investment balance at December 31, 2007. In addition, 63.1% of our commercial real estate loans are in Michigan. Continued adverse economic conditions in these few markets could cause delinquencies and charge-offs of these loans to increase, likely resulting in a corresponding and disproportionately large decline in revenues and an increase in credit risk. Also, we could be adversely affected by business disruptions triggered by natural disasters, or acts of war or terrorism. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our portfolio. Approximately 96.3% of our investment loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007, was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. The collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment if the borrower defaults and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. Adverse changes in the economy affecting real estate values may have significantly impaired the value of our collateral as well as our ability to even sell the collateral upon foreclosure, particularly with respect to our loans with second liens. If the collateral is sold in the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received may be insufficient to recover all of the outstanding principal and uncollected interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability could continue to be negatively impacted by adverse changes in the real estate market. A significant part of our business strategy involves adding new branch locations, and our failure to grow may adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion strategy consists principally of adding new branch locations in Michigan and Georgia growth areas that complement our existing branch network. While we anticipate that this expansion strategy will enhance long-term shareholder value, it is possible that our branch expansion strategy may not become accretive to our earnings over the short term. New branches generally require a significant initial capital investment for land and building expenses and take several years to become profitable. Accordingly, we anticipate that, in the short term, net operations will be negatively affected as we incur significant capital expenditures and noninterest expense in opening and operating new branches before the new branches can produce sufficient net interest income to offset the increased expense. In addition, the need to use capital to fund de novo branching may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets, generate MSRs or to pay or increase dividends on our common stock. There also is implementation risk associated with new branches. Numerous factors will determine whether our branch expansion strategy will be successful, such as our ability to select suitable branch locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny with respect to bank secrecy and anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. In recent years, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the 21 Table of Contents rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We can not be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Other Risk Factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 