D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. 6 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition A global recession and credit crisis may cause significant disruptions to our major customers’ businesses as well as to their ability to access sources of liquidity. Demand for our products has been, and will continue to be, adversely affected by overall macroeconomic conditions. Although the worldwide economic outlook began to improve in 2009, there have still been concerns that many large economies, such as those in North America and Europe, may experience another recession in the near future. The sovereign debt crisis in Europe and political unrest in the Middle East and Asia could have a material adverse effect on the global macroeconomic situation. Should recession or disruption in these markets occur, the result may reverberate, triggering global recession and/or financial crisis. A global recession and credit crisis could have significant negative impact on our businesses. Our key markets and our targeted markets, including the United States and China, as well as other national economies, may enter a period of economic contraction or significantly slower economic growth in a global recession. In particular, a global economic crisis, weak consumer confidence, diminished consumer and business spending, and asset depreciation may contribute to a significant slowdown in the market demand for semiconductors and semiconductor-based end-products, which may lead to a decrease in demand for our services. The combined effects of a global recession may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, which may cause the price of our ADSs to decline. In addition, many of our customers may experience difficulty in obtaining credit in a deteriorating economic environment, and even if they are able to obtain credit, the cost of such financing may increase and/or the time necessary to arrange such financing may be substantially prolonged. This lack of and increase in the cost of financing could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our customers. A protracted disruption in the ability of our customers to access sources of liquidity could cause serious disruptions to or an overall deterioration in their businesses, which could lead to the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us. The seasonality and cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and periodic overcapacity make us particularly vulnerable to significant and sometimes prolonged economic downturns. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant downturns. Since most of our customers operate in semiconductor-related industries, variations in order levels from our customers can result in volatility in our revenues and earnings. Because our business is, and will continue to be, largely dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for our services, downturns in the semiconductor industry will lead to reduced demand for our services. Our net operating revenues are also typically affected by seasonal variations in market conditions that contribute to the fluctuation of the average selling prices of semiconductor services and products. The seasonal sales trends for semiconductor services and products closely mirror those for consumer electronics, communication and computer sales. We generally experience seasonal lows in the demand for semiconductor services and products during the first half of the year, primarily as a result of inventory correction by our customers. Any change in the general seasonal variations, which we cannot anticipate, may result in materially adverse effects on our revenues, operations and businesses. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business and operations have at times in the past been negatively affected by, and are expected to continue to be subject to the risk of, the following factors: • the seasonality and cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; • our customers’ adjustments in their inventory; 7 Table of Contents • the loss of a key customer or the postponement of orders from a key customer; • the rescheduling and cancellation of large orders; • our ability to obtain equipment, raw materials, electricity, water and other required utilities on a timely and economic basis; • outbreaks of contagious diseases, including severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian flu and swine flu; • environmental events, such as fires and earthquakes, or industrial accidents; and • technological changes. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in some future periods. In this event, the price of the shares or ADSs may underperform or fall. A decrease in demand for or selling prices of communication devices, consumer electronics and computer goods may decrease the demand for our services and reduce our margins. Our customers generally use the semiconductors produced in our fabs in a wide variety of applications. We derive a significant percentage of our operating revenues from customers who use our manufacturing services to make semiconductors for communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs and other computers. The semiconductor industry experienced several downturns due to recent major financial crises and natural disasters. These downturns resulted in a reduced demand for our services and hence decreased our revenues and earnings. Any significant decrease in the demand for communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs or other computers may further decrease the demand for our services. In addition, if the average selling prices of communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs or other computers decline significantly, we will be pressured to further reduce our selling prices, which may reduce our revenues and, therefore, reduce our margins significantly. As demonstrated by downturns in demand for high technology products in the past, market conditions can change rapidly, without apparent warning or advance notice. In such instances, our customers will experience inventory buildup and/or difficulties in selling their products and, in turn, will reduce or cancel orders for wafers from us. The timing, severity and recovery of these downturns cannot be predicted accurately or at all. When they occur, our business, profitability and price of the shares and ADSs are likely to suffer. Overcapacity in the semiconductor industry may reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. The prices that we can charge our customers for our services are significantly related to the overall worldwide supply of integrated circuits and semiconductor products. The overall supply of semiconductor products is based in part on the capacity of other companies, which is outside of our control. For example, in light of the current market conditions, some companies, including our largest competitors, have announced plans to increase capacity expenditures significantly. We believe such plans, if carried out as planned, will increase the industry-wide capacity and are likely to result in overcapacity in the future. In periods of overcapacity, if we are unable to offset the adverse effects of overcapacity through, among other things, our technology and product mix, we may have to lower the prices we charge our customers for our services and/or we may have to operate at significantly less than full capacity. Such actions could reduce our margin and weaken our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot give any assurance that an increase in the demand for foundry services in the future will not lead to overcapacity in the near future, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, earnings and margins. 8 Table of Contents Any problem in the semiconductor outsourcing infrastructure can adversely affect our net operating revenues and profitability. Many of our customers depend on third parties to provide mask tooling, assembly and test services. If these customers cannot timely obtain these services on reasonable terms, they may not order any foundry services from us. This may significantly reduce our net operating revenues and negatively affect our profitability. We may be unable to implement new technology as it becomes available, which may result in our loss of customers and market share. The semiconductor industry is developing rapidly and the related technology is constantly evolving. If we do not anticipate the technology evolution and rapidly adopt new and innovative technology, we may not be able to produce sufficiently advanced services at competitive prices. There is a risk that our competitors may adopt new technology before we do, resulting in our loss of market share. If we are unable to begin offering advanced services and processes on a competitive and timely basis, we may lose customers to our competitors providing similar technologies, which may cause our net operating revenues to decline unless we can replace lost customers with new customers. We may be unable to provide leading technology to our customers if we lose the support of our technology partners. Enhancing our manufacturing process technologies is critical to our ability to provide services for our customers. We intend to continue to advance our process technologies through internal research and development and alliances with other companies. Although we have an internal research and development team focused on developing new and improved semiconductor manufacturing process technologies, we are also dependent on some of our technology partners to advance certain process technology portfolios. In addition, we currently have patent cross-licensing agreements with several companies, including LSI Logic Corporation, or LSI, and International Business Machines Corporation, or IBM. Some mask and equipment vendors also supply our technology development teams with masks and equipment needed to develop more advanced processing technologies. If we are unable to continue any of our joint development arrangements, patent cross-licensing agreements and other agreements, on mutually beneficial economic terms, if we re-evaluate the technological and economic benefits of such relationships, if we are unable to enter into new technology alliances and arrangements with other leading and specialty semiconductor companies, or if we fail to secure masks and equipment from our vendors in a timely manner sufficient to support our ongoing technology development, we may be unable to continue providing our customers with leading edge mass-producible process technologies and may, as a result, lose important customers, which would have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our customers rely upon third party vendors, or IP Vendors, for the intellectual property they embed into their designs. Although we work and collaborate with IP Vendors with respect to such matters, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful or that the vendors will deliver according to our requirements or the needs of our customers. Failures to meet the targets or to deliver on a timely basis could cause customers to cancel orders and/or shift capacity to other suppliers. Our business may suffer if we cannot compete successfully in our industry. The worldwide semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with dedicated foundry service providers such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Shanghai) Corporation and Globalfoundries Inc., as well as the foundry operation services of some integrated device manufacturers, such as IBM, Intel, Samsung Electronics, or Samsung, and Toshiba Corporation, or Toshiba. Integrated device manufacturers principally manufacture and sell their own proprietary semiconductor products, but may also offer foundry services. Other competitors such as DongbuAnam Semiconductor, Grace Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp., X-FAB Semiconductors Foundries AG and Silterra Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. have initiated efforts to expand and develop substantial additional foundry capacity. New entrants and consolidations in the foundry business, such as the acquisition of Chartered Semiconductor by Globalfoundries in 2009, are likely to initiate a trend of competitive pricing and create potential overcapacity in legacy technology. Some of our competitors have greater access to capital and substantially greater production, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than we can. 9 Table of Contents The principal elements of competition in the wafer foundry market include: • technical competence; • time-to-volume production and cycle time; • time-to-market; • research and development quality; • available capacity; • manufacturing yields; • customer service and design support; • price; • management expertise; and • strategic alliances. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on factors partially outside of our control, including product availability, intellectual property, or IP, including cell libraries that our customers embed in their product designs, and industry and general economic trends. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our business may suffer. We may not succeed in our efforts to acquire operations in China and Japan. R.O.C. law prohibits Taiwan entities from investment in mainland China-based semiconductor manufacturers without government approval. In March 2005, the Chairman of Infoshine Technology Limited, or Infoshine, the holding company which owned 100% of Hejian Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., or Hejian, a semiconductor manufacturer owning an 8-inch fab in Suzhou, China, offered us 15% interest in Infoshine. Immediately after we received the offer, we filed an application with the Investment Commission of the R.O.C. Ministry of Economic Affairs, or the R.O.C. MOEA, for its executive guidance and disclosed our receipt of this offer to the investors and the public. On April 29, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a proposed acquisition at their 19th session of the board meeting. Pursuant to the merger agreement, we proposed to pay the foreign owner of Infoshine stocks at the purchase price through a combination of issuance of securities in our company or in cash. In June 2009, our stockholders approved our proposed acquisition of Infoshine at our stockholders’ meeting. Upon consummation of the acquisition: (i) our company would be the surviving corporation; (ii) Infoshine would cease its corporate existence; (iii) all the assets and liabilities of Infoshine, along with its rights and obligations, would be assumed by our company in accordance with applicable laws; and (iv) with the previous proposed acquisition of 15% interest in Infoshine, our company would have obtained full ownership of Hejian. Consummation of the acquisition and the realization of the 15% interest were however subject to the approval of the governmental authorities. Subsequent to our proposal, an investment regulation governing foreigners’ holdings of Taiwanese securities, along with restrictions from the amended Operating Rules of the Taiwan Stock Exchange Corporation for issuing new shares to acquire foreign unlisted companies, precluded the issuance of common shares or ADR as exclusive payment options. Furthermore, Hejian’s stockholders did not agree to accept cash-only payments. After considering contractual timeliness and changes of the overall environment after signing of the contract, our Board of Directors resolved at a meeting on November 18, 2010 to terminate the acquisition agreement and issued a termination notice in accordance with that agreement. 10 Table of Contents On March 16, 2011, our Board of Directors proposed an offer to the stockholders of Best Elite International Limited, a British Virgin Islands corporation, or Best Elite, which owns 100% of the shares of Infoshine, thereby to obtain additional 30% ownership of Hejian by share purchase. We received approval from the Investment Commission, Ministry of Economic Affairs, Executive Yuan to acquire the stake of Best Elite International Limited, the holding company of Hejian. The acquisition includes the 15.3% stake in trustee, plus an additional 20.4% through cash acquisition. As of March 31, 2012, we have acquired 35.03% of the shares in Best Elite. To continue searching for further integration, on April 25, 2012, our Board of Directors proposed an offer to the stockholders of Best Elite, thereby to obtain 64.97% stake of Best Elite by share purchase, subject to approval by R.O.C. governmental authorities. However, we can not assure you that we will be able to successfully consummate the acquisition of Best Elite or Hejian. In October 2009, our board of directors decided to obtain the common stock, preemptive rights and stock acquisition rights in UMC Japan, or UMCJ, through a tender offer to be made by our 100% owned subsidiary, Alpha Wisdom Limited, or AWL. After the tender offer which was held from October 29, 2009 to December 14, 2009, 403,368 shares of UMCJ were purchased, and we and AWL together held 94.79% of UMCJ shares. UMCJ then delisted from the Jasdaq Securities Exchange in accordance with its listing rules on March 19, 2010. Since not all of the outstanding equity securities of UMCJ were acquired in the tender offer, we initiated certain squeeze-out procedures as provided in the Japanese Companies Act. Pursuant to such procedures, as of the end of 2010, we, together with AWL, owned 100% of UMCJ. On May 19, 2011, we acquired the remaining shares of UMCJ from AWL, and AWL filed for liquidation on August 30, 2011. One of the former stockholders of UMCJ challenged the acquisition price and filed an action for appraisal rights under Japanese law. An action for appraisal rights would not enjoin or hinder the acquisition, as the shareholder would only be eligible to obtain additional compensation if the action is successful. On August 25, 2011, the Japanese courts finally denied the action for appraisal rights, thereby closing the case in favor of UMC and UMCJ. We compete for business on a global basis, and we believe it is necessary to establish and develop operations in multiple strategic geographic regions. We cannot assure you that the mergers and acquisitions we have undertaken will be closed successfully or that they will be fully closed on the terms we proposed. The failure to close these transactions or the failure to close them on terms as favorable as we have entered into and announced may impair our ability to realize the benefits we intend to achieve and have a material and adverse effect on our operations and business. We may not be able to successfully integrate the operations to be acquired in Japan with our global activities. Even after we successfully close the acquisition of UMCJ, we may not be able to integrate their operations with our current operations in accordance with the manners or the schedule or under the economic conditions we plan or target. In order to realize the benefits we expect from these transactions, we need to integrate the operations of the acquired facilities with our current facilities. Our ability to integrate the operations and facilities of UMCJ is dependent upon a number of factors, including: • technical competence of UMCJ; • management and engineering abilities of UMCJ; • our ability to adapt UMCJ to our processes, practices and management approaches; • our ability to optimize the process, equipment, capacity, customer and technology mix in our global operations; • communication and coordination between different locations; and • cultural compatibility. 11 Table of Contents Failure to successfully integrate the operations of UMCJ in the time frame we plan, or at all, will adversely affect the benefits we expect to enjoy and may have material adverse effects on our business and operations. Our profit margin may substantially decline if we are unable to continuously improve our manufacturing yields, maintain high capacity utilization and optimize the technology mix of our silicon wafer production. Our ability to maintain our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to: • maintain our capacity utilization, that is, the wafer-out quantity of 8-inch wafer equivalents divided by estimated total 8- inch equivalent capacity in a specified period. The estimated capacity numbers may differ depending upon equipment delivery schedules, pace of migration to more advanced process technologies and other factors affecting production ramp-ups; • maintain or improve our manufacturing yield, that is, the percentage of usable manufactured devices on a wafer; and • optimize the technology mix of our production, that is, the relative number of wafers manufactured utilizing different process technologies. Our manufacturing yields directly affect our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as the price of our services. Our capacity utilization affects our operating results because a large percentage of our operating costs are fixed. Our technology mix affects utilization of our equipment and process technologies, as well as the prices we can charge, either of which can affect our margins. If we are unable to continuously improve our manufacturing yields, maintain high capacity utilization or optimize the technology mix of our wafer production, our profit margin may substantially decline. We may not be able to implement our planned growth if we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to fund the substantial capital expenditures we expect to incur. Our business and the nature of our industry require us to make substantial capital expenditures leading to a high level of fixed costs. We expect to incur significant capital expenditures in connection with our growth plans. These capital expenditures will be made in advance of any additional sales to be generated by new or upgraded fabs as a result of these expenditures. Given the fixed-cost nature of our business, we have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, operating losses if our revenues do not adequately offset our capital expenditures. Additionally, our actual expenditures may exceed our planned expenditures for a variety of reasons, including changes in: • our growth plan; • our process technology; • market conditions; • interest rates; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • prices of equipment. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on satisfactory terms, we may be forced to curtail our expansion plans or delay the deployment of our services, which could result in a loss of customers and limit the growth of our business. 12 Table of Contents We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our net operating revenues and a loss of some of these customers would result in the loss of a significant portion of our net operating revenues. We have been largely dependent on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business. In 2011, our top ten customers accounted for 60.3% of our net operating revenues. We expect that we will continue to be dependent upon a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net operating revenues. We cannot assure you that our net operating revenues generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Loss or cancellation of business from significant changes in scheduled deliveries to, or decreases in the prices of services sold to, any of these customers could significantly reduce our net operating revenues. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future revenues, adjust production costs and allocate capacity efficiently on a timely basis. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog, except in periods of extreme capacity shortage such as that experienced in late 2009 and early 2010. The lack of significant backlog and the unpredictable length and timing of semiconductor cycles make it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our net operating revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter. Our inability to obtain, preserve and defend intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and to secure critical processing technology that we do not own at commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to independently develop, or secure from any third party, the technology required for upgrading our production facilities or for meeting our customer needs. Our failure to successfully obtain such technology may seriously harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States or in certain other countries until months after they are filed. The semiconductor industry, because of the complexity of the technology used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. It is common for patent owners to assert their patents against semiconductor manufacturers. We have received from time to time communications from third parties asserting patents that cover certain of our technologies and alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others, and we expect to continue to receive such communications in the future. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Litigation” for more details of our ongoing litigation. In the event any third party was to make a valid claim against us or against our customers, we could be required to: • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • discontinue using certain process technologies, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain semiconductors; • pay substantial monetary damages; and/or • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. Any one of these developments could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could hurt our reputation as a technology leader in our industry and prevent us from manufacturing particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce opportunities to generate revenues. 13 Table of Contents Our company was fined for violations of the Act Governing Relations Between Peoples of the Taiwan Area and the Mainland Area in connection with our alleged involvement in the operation of Hejian. Hejian, a semiconductor manufacturer in Suzhou, China, was set up in December 2001. Soon after the establishment of Hejian, various rumors circulated that Hejian was set up by us. We immediately denied these rumors and clarified that we did not provide any capital nor did we transfer any technology to Hejian. Our company was found by the R.O.C. MOEA to be in violation of the Act Governing Relations Between Peoples of the Taiwan Area and the Mainland Area and fined in the amount of NT$5 million for an alleged illegal investment in Hejian. Our appeal to the R.O.C. MOEA in relation to such fines was denied in late 2006. We filed an administrative lawsuit in December 2006 with the Taipei Administrative High Court to challenge the R.O.C. MOEA fine. In July 2007, the Taipei Administrative High Court revoked the R.O.C. MOEA’s decision and ruled in our favor. In August 2007, the R.O.C. MOEA filed an appeal with the Supreme Administrative Court. On December 10, 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court reversed the decision of, and remanded the case to, the Taipei High Administrative Court for a new trial on our administrative lawsuit. On July 21, 2010, the Taipei High Court ruled against us and we appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court on August 23, 2010. The Supreme Administrative Court rejected our appeal on December 19, 2011 and ruled against us. Since we already paid the fine on January 29, 2007, the case has been closed. Our operations and business will suffer if we lose one or more of our key personnel without adequate replacements. Our future success to a large extent depends on the continued service of our Chairman and key executive officers. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our personnel. If we lose the services of any of our Chairman or key executive officers, it could be difficult to find and integrate replacement personnel in a short period of time, which could harm our operations and the growth of our business. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees, who are critical to our future success. The success of our business depends upon attracting and retaining experienced executives, engineers and other employees to implement our strategy. The competition for skilled employees is intense. We expect demand for personnel in Taiwan to increase in the future as new wafer fabrication facilities and other businesses are established in Taiwan. We also expect demand for experienced personnel in other locations to increase significantly as our competitors establish and expand their operations. Some of our competitors are willing to offer better compensation than that we do to our executives, engineers and other employees. We do not have long-term employment contracts with any of our employees. If we were unable to retain our existing personnel or attract, assimilate and recruit new experienced personnel in the future, it could seriously disrupt our operations and delay or restrict the growth of our business. Our transactions with affiliates and stockholders may hurt our profitability and competitive position. We have provided foundry services to several of our affiliates and stockholders. These transactions were conducted on an arm’s- length basis. We currently do not provide any preferential treatment to any of these affiliates and stockholders. However, we may in the future reserve or allocate our production capacity to these companies if there is a shortage of foundry services in the market to enable these companies to maintain their operations and/or to protect our investments in them. This reservation or allocation may reduce our capacity available for our other customers, which may damage our relationships with other customers and discourage them from using our services. This may hurt our profitability and competitive position. 14 Table of Contents The differences between R.O.C. and U.S. accounting standards affect the amount of our net income. Our financial statements are prepared under R.O.C. GAAP, which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. For a discussion of these differences, see Note 35 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. As a result, our net income attributable to us in 2009, 2010 and 2011 under U.S. GAAP was NT$2,572 million, NT$23,616 million and NT$8,746 million (US$289 million), respectively, as compared to net income attributable to us under R.O.C. GAAP of, NT$3,874 million, NT$23,899 million and NT$10,610 million (US$351 million) in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The trend of adopting protectionist measures in certain countries, including the United States, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Governments in the United States, China and certain other countries have implemented fiscal and monetary programs to stimulate economic growth as a result of the recent economic downturn, and many of these programs include protectionist measures that encourage the use of domestic products and labor. Recent policy developments by the governments in China and elsewhere also suggest an increased unwillingness to allow international companies to invest in or acquire local businesses. Since many of our direct customers and other downstream customers in the supply chain are located in or have operations in the countries where protectionist measures were adopted, such protectionist measures may have a material adverse effect on demand for our manufacturing services. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our business and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as avian or swine influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and may generally disrupt our operations. If any of our employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may under certain circumstances be required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. Therefore, we may have to temporarily suspend part of or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan, and affect the willingness and ability of our employees and customers to travel, which may also adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Manufacturing Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, costly and potentially vulnerable to impurities and other disruptions that can significantly increase our costs and delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified to improve manufacturing yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process or defects with respect to equipment or supporting facilities can lower manufacturing yields, interrupt production or result in losses of products in process. As system complexity has increased and process technology has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become even more demanding. Although we have been enhancing our manufacturing capabilities and efficiency, from time to time we have experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays and quality control problems, as is common in the semiconductor industry. In the past we have encountered the following problems: • capacity constraints due to changes in product mix or the delayed delivery of equipment critical to our production, including scanners, steppers and chemical stations; • construction delays during expansions of our clean rooms and other facilities; • difficulties in upgrading or expanding existing facilities; • manufacturing execution system or automatic transportation system failure; • unexpected breakdowns in our manufacturing equipment and/or related facilities; • changing or upgrading our process technologies; 15 Table of Contents • raw materials shortages and impurities; and • delays in delivery and shortages of spare parts and in maintenance for our equipment and tools Should these problems repeat, we may suffer delays in delivery and/or loss of business and revenues. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our manufacturing capacity and efficiency in the future to the same extent as in the past. We may have difficulty in ramping up production in accordance with our schedule, which could cause delays in product deliveries and decreases in manufacturing yields. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced difficulties in ramping up production at new or existing facilities or effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes. As a result, we have suffered delays in product deliveries or reduced manufacturing yields. We may encounter similar difficulties in connection with: • the migration to more advanced process technologies, such as 45/40 and 28 nanometer process technology; • the joint development with vendors for more powerful tools (both in production and inspection) needed in the future to meet advanced process technology requirements; and • the adoption of new materials in our manufacturing processes. We may face construction delays, interruptions, infrastructure failure and delays in upgrading or expanding existing facilities, or changing our process technologies, any of which might adversely affect our production schedule. Our failure to achieve our production schedule could delay the time required to recover our investments and seriously affect our profitability. Our production schedules could be delayed and we may lose customers if we are unable to obtain raw materials and equipment in a timely manner. We depend on our suppliers for raw materials. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we must obtain from our suppliers, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality materials at acceptable prices. Although we source our raw materials from several suppliers, a small number of these suppliers account for a substantial amount of our supply of raw materials because of the consistent quality of these suppliers’ goods. For example, in 2011, we purchased a majority of our silicon wafers from four makers, Shin-Etsu Handotai Corporation, or Shin-Etsu, Siltronic AG, MEMC Corporation and Sumco Group (including Sumco Corporation and Formosa Sumco Technology Corporation). We may have long-term contracts with most of our suppliers if necessary. From time to time, our suppliers have extended lead time or limited the supply of required materials to us because of capacity constraints. Consequently, from time to time, we have experienced difficulty in obtaining the quantities of raw materials we need on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time we may reject materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in declines in output or manufacturing yields. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies in a timely manner. If the supply of materials is substantially diminished or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials, we may be forced to incur additional costs to acquire sufficient quantities of raw materials to sustain our operations, which may increase our marginal costs and reduce profitability. We also depend on a limited number of manufacturers and vendors that make and maintain the complex equipment we use in our manufacturing processes. We also rely on these manufacturers and vendors to improve our technology to meet our customers’ demands as technology improves. In periods of unpredictable and highly diversified market demand, the lead time from order to delivery of this equipment can be as long as six to twelve months. If there are delays in the delivery of equipment or in the availability or performance of necessary maintenance, or if there are increases in the cost of equipment, it could cause us to delay our introduction of new manufacturing capacity or technologies and delay product deliveries, which may result in the loss of customers and revenues. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and may therefore be subject to the risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We maintain insurance policies to reduce losses caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. While we believe that our insurance coverage for damage to our property and business interruption due to fire is consistent with semiconductor industry practice, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and self-insured retention and may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, it would temporarily reduce manufacturing capacity and reduce revenues. We and many of our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events outside of our control, which may seriously disrupt our operations. Most of our assets and many of our customers and suppliers are located in certain parts of Taiwan. Our operations and the operations of our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to earthquakes, floods, droughts, power losses and similar events that affect the locations of our operations. The occurrence of any of these events could interrupt our services and cause severe damages to wafers in process, or cause significant business interruptions. Although we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance for such risks, there is no guarantee that future damages or business loss from earthquakes will be covered by such insurance, that we will be able to collect from our insurance carriers, should we choose to claim under our insurance policies, or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, our manufacturing facilities have occasionally experienced insufficient power supplies, and our operations have been disrupted. Our operations may be delayed or interrupted and our business could suffer if we violate environmental, safety and health, or ESH, regulations. The semiconductor manufacturing process requires the use of various gases, chemicals, hazardous materials and other substances such as solvents and sulfuric acid which may have an impact on the environment. We are always subject to ESH regulations, and a failure to manage the use, storage, transportation, emission, discharge, recycling or disposal of raw materials or to comply with these ESH regulations could result in (i) regulatory penalties, fines and other legal liabilities, (ii) suspension of production or delays in operation and capacity expansion, (iii) a decrease in our sales, (iv) an increase in pollution cleaning fees and other operation costs, or (v) damage to our public image, any of which could harm our business. In addition, as ESH regulations are becoming more comprehensive and stringent, we may incur a greater amount of capital expenditures in technology innovation and materials substitution in order to comply with such regulations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Climate change may negatively affect our business. There is increasing concern that climate change is occurring and may have dramatic effects on human activity without aggressive remediation steps. A modest change in temperature would result in increased coastal flooding, changing precipitation patterns and increasing risk of extinction for the world’s species. Public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs. Scientific examination of, political attention to and rules and regulations on issues surrounding the existence and extent of climate change may result in an increase in the cost of production due to increase in the prices of energy and introduction of energy or carbon tax. Various regulatory developments have been introduced that focus on restricting or managing emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Enterprises may need to purchase at higher costs emission credits, new equipment or raw materials with lower carbon footprints. These developments and further legislation that is likely to be enacted could affect our operations negatively. Changes in environmental regulations, such those on the use of perfluorinated compounds, could increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, more frequent droughts and floods, extreme weather conditions and rising sea levels could occur due to climate change. The impact of such changes could be significant as most of our factories are located in islands including Taiwan and Singapore. For example, transportation suspension caused by extreme weather conditions could harm the distribution of our products. Similarly, our operations depend upon adequate supplies of water, and extended or serious droughts may affect our ability to obtain adequate supplies of water and threaten our production. We cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of disasters or climate change. 17 Table of Contents Disruptions in the international trading environment may seriously decrease our international sales. A substantial portion of our net operating revenues is derived from sales to customers located in countries other than Taiwan, Singapore and Japan where our fabs are located, which accounted for 37.4%, 35.5%, and 40.2% in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, of our net operating revenues. We expect sales to customers outside of Taiwan, Singapore and Japan to continue to represent a significant portion of our net operating revenues. The success and profitability of our international activities depend on certain factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, labor conditions, political stability, tax laws, import duties and foreign exchange controls of the countries in which we sell our products, and the political and economic relationships between Taiwan, Singapore, Japan and these countries. As a result, our manufacturing services will continue to be vulnerable to disruptions in the international trading environment, including adverse changes in foreign government regulations, political unrest and international economic downturns. These disruptions in the international trading environment affect the demand for our manufacturing services and change the terms upon which we provide our manufacturing services overseas, which could seriously decrease our international sales. Political, Economic and Regulatory Risks We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between the R.O.C. and the People’s Republic of China, or the PRC, that could negatively affect the value of your investment. Our principal executive offices and most of our assets and operations are located in Taiwan. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in R.O.C. governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The PRC claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established between the R.O.C. and the PRC in the past few years, such as the adoption of the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement and memorandum regarding cross-straight financial supervision, we cannot assure you that relations between the R.O.C. and PRC will not become strained again. For example, the PRC government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan and, in March 2005, further passed an Anti-Secession Law that authorizes non-peaceful means and other necessary measures should Taiwan move to gain independence from the PRC. Past developments in relations between the R.O.C. and the PRC have on occasions depressed the market prices of the securities of companies in the R.O.C. Such initiatives and actions are commonly viewed as having a detrimental effect to reunification efforts between the R.O.C. and the PRC. Relations between the R.O.C. and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have been affected by the global financial and economic crisis and may be further affected. We and our customers rely on the strength of the global economy and global financial markets. We face risks attendant to changes in customer demand in semiconductor industry, economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in securities markets around the world, among other factors. The adverse economic conditions have affected and may continue to affect customer spending generally, which will result in decreases in demand for our manufacturing services and have an adverse affect on our results of operations. For example, beginning in 2008, the United States, Europe and international markets have experienced a significant decline in economic activity that has affected the semiconductor market. As a result, we were also severely affected by the financial and economic crisis. The crisis adversely affected our business and results of operations. In addition, the current European debt crisis and related financial restructuring efforts in Europe, including in Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland, are contributing to instability in global financial markets, which adversely affects consumer confidence, the cost of borrowing and economic activity. Similarly, disruptions from political instability in such regions as the Middle East and North Korea, could trigger instability in global financial markets with similar adverse effects. As our business is significantly dependent on economic growth, if global macroeconomic economic conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Our business depends on the support of the R.O.C. government, and a decrease in this support may increase our labor costs and decrease our net income after tax. The R.O.C. government has been very supportive of technology companies such as us. For instance, the R.O.C.’s labor laws and regulations do not require employees of semiconductor companies, including our company, to be unionized, and permit these employees to work shifts of 10 hours each day on a two-days-on, two-days-off basis. We cannot assure you, however, that these labor laws and regulations will not be changed in the future. In the event that the R.O.C. government requires our employees to be unionized or decreases the number of hours our employees may work in a given day, our labor costs may increase significantly which could result in lower margins. We, like many R.O.C. technology companies, have benefited from substantial tax incentives provided by the R.O.C. government. In 2011, such incentives resulted in a tax credit in the amount of NT$279 million (US$9 million). Among the incentives broadly enjoyed by R.O.C. technology companies, various tax benefits granted under Chapter 2 and Article 70-1 of the Statute for Upgrading Industries expired on December 31, 2009. Despite the fact that we can still enjoy the five-year tax holidays for the relevant investment plans approved by R.O.C. tax authority before the expiration of the Statute for Upgrading Industries, if more incentives are curtailed or eliminated, our net income after tax attributable to us may decrease. Our future tax obligations may adversely affect our profitability. The R.O.C. government enacted the R.O.C. Income Basic Tax Act, also known as the “Minimum Income Tax Statute”, or the Statute, which became effective on January 1, 2006. This Statute imposes an alternative minimum tax, or AMT. The AMT is designed to remedy the current excessive tax incentives for individuals and businesses. The AMT imposed under the Statute is a supplemental tax which is payable if the income tax payable pursuant to the R.O.C. Income Tax Act is below the minimum amount prescribed under the Statute. For the purpose of calculating the AMT, the taxable income defined under the Statute includes most income that is exempted from income tax under various legislations, such as those providing tax holidays and investment tax credits. For businesses, the incomes which previously enjoyed tax-exemption privileges under relevant tax regulations, such as the Act for the Establishment and Administration of the Science Parks and the Statute for Upgrading Industries, will be subject to the new AMT system for the calculation of business taxpayers’ aggregate incomes. The AMT rate for business entities is 10%. Under the Statute, a company will be subject to a 10% AMT if its annual taxable income under the Statute exceeds NT$2 million. However, the Statute grandfathered certain tax exemptions granted prior to the enactment of the AMT. For example, businesses already qualified for five-year tax holidays and having obtained the applicable permission issued by the competent authority before December 31, 2005 may continue to enjoy tax incentives, and the income exempted thereunder will not to be added to the taxable income for the purpose of calculating the AMT, so long as the construction of their investment projects breaks ground within one year from January 1, 2006 and is completed within three years commencing from the day immediately following their receipts of the applicable permission issued by the competent authority. As the tax exemption periods expire or in the event of an increase in other taxable income subject to the Statute, such 10% AMT may adversely impact our net income after tax. The trading price of the shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by the general activities of the Taiwan Stock Exchange and U.S. stock exchanges, the trading price of our shares, increases in interest rates and the economic performance of Taiwan. Our shares are listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The trading price of our ADSs may be affected by the trading price of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the economic performance of Taiwan. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is smaller and, as a market, more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and a number of European countries. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is particularly volatile during times of political instability, such as when relations between Taiwan and the PRC are strained. Moreover, the Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced problems such as market manipulation, insider trading and payment defaults, and the government of Taiwan has from time to time intervened in the stock market by purchasing stocks listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The recurrence of these or similar problems could decrease the market price and liquidity of the shares and ADSs. 19 Table of Contents From September 19, 2000, the commencement date of the listing of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, to December 31, 2011, the daily reported closing prices of our ADSs ranged from US$14.88 per ADS to US$1.51 per ADS. The market price of the ADSs may also be affected by general trading activities on the U.S. stock exchanges, which recently have experienced significant price volatility with respect to shares of technology companies. Fluctuation in interest rates and other general economic conditions may also have an effect on the market price of the ADSs. Currency fluctuations could increase our costs relative to our revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. More than half of our net operating revenues are denominated in currencies other than New Taiwan dollars, primarily U.S. dollars and Japanese Yen. On the other hand, more than half of our costs of direct labor, raw materials and overhead are incurred in New Taiwan dollars. Although we hedge a portion of the resulting net foreign exchange position through the use of foreign currency forward contracts, we are still affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the Japanese Yen, the New Taiwan dollar and other currencies. For example, during the period from August 31, 2010 to February 15, 2011, the U.S. dollar depreciated 8.06% against the NT dollar. Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may be harmful to our financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the New Taiwan dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of the ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any cash dividends we pay, which could have a corresponding effect on the market price of the ADSs. Compliance with laws such as the US Conflict Minerals Law may affect our ability or the ability of our suppliers to purchase raw materials at an effective cost. Many industries rely on materials which are subject to regulation concerning certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, including: Sudan; Uganda; Rwanda; Burundi; United Republic of Tanzania; Zambia; Angola; Congo; and Central African Republic. These minerals are commonly referred to as conflict minerals. Conflict minerals which may be used in our industry or by our suppliers include Columbite-tantalite (derivative of tantalum [Ta]), Cassiterite (derivative of tin [Sn]), gold [Au], Wolframite (derivative of tungsten [W]), and Cobalt [Co]. Under present U.S. regulations, we and our customers are required to survey and disclose whether our processes or products use or rely on conflict materials. The U.S. SEC proposed draft regulations that would require companies such as ours to disclose the use of conflict materials and to take certain steps to verify those disclosures with its vendors. The SEC has not yet promulgated the final rules and regulations. Although we expect that we and our vendors will be able to comply with the requirements of any new regulations promulgated by the SEC, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to gather all the information required. In addition, there is increasing public sentiment that companies should avoid using conflict materials from the DRC and adjoining countries. Although we believe our suppliers do not rely on such conflict materials, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies of materials needed in our production from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries. A failure to obtain necessary information or to maintain adequate supplies of materials from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries may delay our production, increasing the risk of losing customers and business. Similarly, many countries are considering regulations concerning disclosure and enforcement of human rights within supply chains. Although our own operations comply with the employment and employee rights requirements under the laws of the countries where we have operations, such proposals extend to the operations of suppliers, wherever they may be located. While we believe our suppliers comply with applicable human rights requirements, there can be no guarantee that they will continue to do so, or that we will be able to obtain the necessary information on their activities to comply with whatever future requirements may be enacted. 20 Table of Contents Data security and data privacy considerations and regulations may adversely affect our operations. Our operations depend upon reliable and uninterrupted information technology services, including the integrity of our web-based and electronic customer service systems. Although we have put in place what we believe are reasonable precautions to prevent accidental and/or malicious disruption of these services, there can be no assurance that our preventive measures will preclude failure of the information technology, web-based and electronic customer service systems upon which our business depends. Disruption of these systems could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and to serve our customers. In addition, in the course of our operations, we receive confidential information from and about our customers, vendors, employees and partners. Although we take what we believe are reasonable precautions to protect such information from disclosure to or interruption, there are no guarantees our precautions will prevent accidental or malicious access to such information. In the event of such access, our reputation could be adversely affected, customers and others may hesitate to entrust us with their confidential information, which would negatively affect our operations, and we would incur costs to remedy the breach. Moreover, many jurisdictions have proposed regulations concerning data privacy. Although we have taken measures to comply with existing law and regulations in this regard, future laws may impose requirements that make our operations more expensive and/or less efficient. In addition, should we experience a breakdown in our systems or failure in our precautions that results in a violation of such regulations, we may suffer adverse customer reaction and face governmental penalties. Risks Related to the Shares and ADSs and Our Trading Markets Restrictions on the ability to deposit shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs. The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by R.O.C. law. Under current R.O.C. law, no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit shares into our ADS program without specific approval of the R.O.C. FSC except for the deposit of the shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: (1) distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our shares; (2) exercise of the preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the shares evidenced by ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or (3) delivery of our shares which are purchased in the domestic market in Taiwan directly by the investor or through the depositary or are already in the possession of the investor to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (a) the re-issuance is permitted under the deposit agreement and custody agreement, (b) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposit only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the issuance does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by the R.O.C. FSC, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described in (1) and (2) above and (c) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been withdrawn. As a result of the limited ability to deposit shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on the NYSE may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. 21 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs will not have the same proposal or voting rights as the holders of our shares, which may affect the value of your investment. Except for treasury shares and shares held by our subsidiaries which meet certain criteria provided under the R.O.C. Company Act, each common share is generally entitled to one vote and no voting discount will be applied. However, except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attached to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares represented by the ADSs. The voting rights attached to the shares evidenced by our ADSs must be exercised as to all matters brought to a vote of stockholders collectively in the same manner. Moreover, holders of the ADSs do not have individual rights to propose any matter for stockholders’ votes at our stockholders’ meetings. However, holders of at least 51% of the ADS outstanding at the relevant record date may request the depositary to submit to us one proposal per year for consideration at our annual ordinary stockholders’ meeting, provided that such proposal meets certain submission criteria and limitations, including the language and the length of the proposal, the time of submission, the required certification or undertakings, and the attendance at the annual ordinary stockholders’ meeting. A qualified proposal so submitted by the depositary will still be subject to review by our board of directors and there is no assurance that the proposal will be accepted by our board of directors for inclusion in the agenda of our annual ordinary stockholders’ meeting. Furthermore, if we determine, at our discretion, that the proposal submitted by the depositary does not qualify, we have no obligation to notify the depositary or to allow the depositary to modify such proposal. Furthermore, if holders of at least 51% of the ADSs outstanding at the relevant record date instruct the depositary to vote in the same manner regarding a resolution, including election of directors, the depositary will appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to represent the ADS holders at the stockholders’ meetings and to vote the shares represented by the ADSs outstanding in the manner so instructed. If by the relevant record date the depositary has not received instructions from holders of ADSs holding at least 51% of the ADSs to vote in the same manner for any resolution, then the holders will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to authorize and appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to vote all the shares represented by ADSs at his sole discretion, which may not be in your interest. The rights of holders of our ADSs to participate in our rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our stockholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. Changes in exchange controls that restrict your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment. Your ability to convert proceeds received from your ownership of ADSs depends on existing and future exchange control regulations of the Republic of China. Under the current laws of the Republic of China, an ADS holder or the depositary, without obtaining further approvals from the R.O.C. Central Bank of China, or the CBC, or any other governmental authority or agency of the Republic of China, may convert NT dollars into other currencies, including U.S. dollars, in respect of: • the proceeds of the sale of shares represented by ADSs or received as share dividends with respect to the shares and deposited into the depositary receipt facility; and • any cash dividends or distributions received from the shares represented by ADSs. 22 Table of Contents In addition, the depositary may also convert into NT dollars incoming payments for purchases of shares for deposit in the depositary receipt facility against the creation of additional ADSs. If you withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs and become a holder of our shares, you may convert into NT dollars subscription payments for rights offerings. The depositary may be required to obtain foreign exchange approval from the CBC on a payment-by-payment basis for conversion from NT dollars into foreign currencies of the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights of new shares. Although it is expected that the CBC will grant approval as a routine matter, required approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, or at all. Under the Republic of China Foreign Exchange Control Law, the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China may, without prior notice but subject to subsequent legislative approval, impose foreign exchange controls or other restrictions in the event of, among other things, a material change in international economic conditions. Our public stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as stockholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by laws governing R.O.C. corporations. The rights of our stockholders to bring stockholders’ suits against us or our board of directors under R.O.C. law are much more limited than those of the stockholders of U.S. corporations. Therefore, our public stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or controlling stockholders than they would as stockholders of a U.S. corporation. Please refer to “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Rights to Bring Stockholders’ Suits” included elsewhere in this annual report for a detailed discussion of the rights of our stockholders to bring legal actions against us or our directors under R.O.C. law. Holders of our ADSs will be required to appoint several local agents in Taiwan if they withdraw shares from our ADS program and become our stockholders, which may make ownership burdensome. Non-R.O.C. persons wishing to withdraw shares represented by their ADSs from our ADS program and hold our shares represented by those ADSs are required to, among other things, appoint a local agent or representative with qualifications set forth by the R.O.C. FSC to open a securities trading account with a local brokerage firm, pay R.O.C. taxes, remit funds and exercise stockholders’ rights. In addition, the withdrawing holders are also required to appoint a custodian bank with qualifications set forth by the R.O.C. FSC to hold the securities in safekeeping, make confirmations, settle trades and report all relevant information. Without making this appointment and opening of the accounts, the withdrawing holders would not be able to subsequently sell our shares withdrawn from a depositary receipt facility on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Under R.O.C. law and regulations, except under limited circumstances, PRC persons are not permitted to withdraw the shares underlying the ADSs or to register as a stockholder of our company. Under the Regulations Governing Securities Investment and Futures Trading in Taiwan by Mainland Area Investors promulgated by the R.O.C. Executive Yuan on April 30, 2009, as amended, only qualified domestic institutional investors, or QDIIs, are permitted to withdraw the shares underlying the ADSs, subject to compliance with the withdrawal relevant requirements, and only QDIIs, and limited entities or individuals who meet the qualification requirements set forth therein are permitted to own shares of an R.O.C. company listed for trading on the Taiwan Stock Exchange, provided that among other restrictions generally applicable to investments made by PRC persons, their shareholdings are subject to certain restrictions as set forth in the abovementioned regulations and that such mainland area investors shall apply for a separate approval if their investment, individually or in aggregate, amounts to or exceeds 10 percent of the shares of any R.O.C. company. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court in the R.O.C. We are a company limited by shares incorporated under the R.O.C. Company Act. Most of our assets and most of our directors and executive officers and experts named in the registration statement are located in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained outside Taiwan upon us or such persons in Taiwan. We have been advised by our R.O.C. counsel that any judgment obtained against us in any court outside the R.O.C. arising out of or relating to the ADSs will not be enforced by R.O.C. courts if any of the following situations shall apply to such final judgment: • the court rendering the judgment does not have jurisdiction over the subject matter according to R.O.C. law; 23 Table of Contents • the judgment or the court procedure resulting in the judgment is contrary to the public order or good morals of the R.O.C.; • the judgment was rendered by default, except where the summons or order necessary for the commencement of the action was legally served on us within the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment within a reasonable period of time or with judicial assistance of the R.O.C.; or • judgments of R.O.C. courts are not recognized in the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment on a reciprocal basis. We may be considered a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for U.S. investors. We do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for 2011 and we do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. Based upon the nature of our business activities, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of shares and ADSs, which is subject to change. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we have raised in prior offerings. See “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations For U.S. Persons—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 