ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These risk factors include the following: General business, economic and political conditions may significantly affect our earnings. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which we conduct business. If any of these conditions worsen, our business and earnings could be adversely affected. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively impact household incomes could decrease the 10 Table of Contents demand for our home loans and increase the number of customers who become delinquent or default on their loans; or, a rising interest rate environment could decrease the demand for loans. In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The Federal Reserve’s policies influence the size of the mortgage origination market, which significantly impacts the earnings of our mortgage lending operation and the value of our investment in MSRs and other retained interests. The Federal Reserve’s policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political conditions can also impact our earnings. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, as well as actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response to such acts or threats, could adversely impact business and economic conditions in the United States. If we cannot effectively manage the volatility of interest rates, our earnings could be adversely affected. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to moderate the impact of changes in interest rates on our earnings over an extended period of time. As such, our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our “net interest spread,” which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our profitability also depends in substantial part on the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking operations. Our net interest spread and our volume of mortgage originations will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest spreads and the mortgage origination volumes for the Bank and for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors. Our goal has been to structure our asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rate on our net interest spread and gains related to mortgage origination volume. However, we can not give any assurance that a sudden or significant change in prevailing interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our profitability levels on loan sales may be adversely affected in a rapidly rising interest rate environment. We manage the strategic interest rate risk in our home lending operation primarily through the natural counterbalance of our loan production and servicing operations. Increasing interest rates may decrease our mortgage loan originations and sales. Generally, the volume of mortgage loan originations is inversely related to the level of long-term interest rates. During periods of low interest rates, a significant number of our customers may elect to refinance their mortgages (i.e., pay off their existing higher rate mortgage loans with new mortgage loans obtained at lower interest rates). Our profitability levels and those of others in the mortgage banking industry have generally been strongest during periods of low and/or declining interest rates, as we have historically been able to sell the increased volume of loans into the secondary market at a gain. If interest rates rise after we fix a price for a loan or commitment but before we close or sell such loan, the value of the loan will decrease and the amount we receive from selling the loan may be less than its cost to originate. Conversely, the market value of, and earnings from, our mortgage loan servicing portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in interest rates. When mortgage rates rise, we would generally expect reduced payoffs in our servicing portfolio, which increases the fair value of our MSR. When mortgage interest rates decline, mortgage loan prepayments usually increase as customers refinance their loans. When this happens, the income stream from our current mortgage loan servicing portfolio may decline. In that case, we may be required to amortize the portfolio over a shorter period of time or reduce the carrying value of our mortgage loan servicing portfolio. Changes in interest rates may cause a mismatch in our mortgage origination flow of loans, or “pipeline” and adversely affect our profitability. In our mortgage banking operation, we are exposed to interest rate risk from the time we commit to an interest rate on a mortgage loan application through the time we sell or commit to sell the mortgage loan. On a daily basis, we analyze various economic and market factors to estimate the percentage of mortgage loans we expect to sell for delivery at a future date. The actual amount of loans we sell will be a percentage computed as (1) the number of mortgage loans on which we have issued binding commitments (and thereby locked in the interest rate) but have not yet closed (“pipeline loans”), divided by 11 Table of Contents (2) actual closings. If interest rates change in an unanticipated fashion, the actual percentage of pipeline loans that close may differ from the projected percentage. The resulting mismatch of commitments to fund mortgage loans and commitments to sell mortgage loans may have an adverse effect on the results of operations in any such period. We may not have made commitments to sell these additional pipeline loans and therefore may incur significant losses upon their sale if the market rate of interest is higher than the mortgage interest rate we committed to on such additional pipeline loans. Our profitability may be adversely affected to the extent our economic hedging strategy is not successful. Prepayment Risk. We could be adversely affected by our policy not to impose prepayment penalties on certain loans we originate for sale or for our own portfolio. As a result, these borrowers could be more inclined to prepay their loans in a rapidly changing interest rate environment than those borrowers that face a prepayment penalty cost. Such prepayment of loans we held in our portfolio could increase our interest rate risk above our desired levels, and it could significantly reduce the value of our MSRs and the amount of our loan servicing income. Repricing Risk. Repricing risks arise from the timing difference in the maturity and/or repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions. While such repricing mismatches are fundamental to our business, they can expose us to fluctuations in income and economic value as interest rates vary. For example, if a long-term, fixed-rate loan is funded with a short-term deposit, future net interest income would be susceptible to a decline as interest rates increase. This decline would occur because the interest income from the loan would remain unchanged, while the interest paid on the deposit would increase each time the deposit matures. The internal risk management process, however, does not eliminate repricing risk. Yield Curve Risk. The value of certain loans, securities and hedges we hold is based on a number of factors, including the shape or slope of the appropriate yield curve, as the market values financial assets and hedge instruments based on expectations for interest rates in the future. Yield curves typically reflect the market’s expectations for future interest rates. In valuing our assets and related hedge instruments, in formulating our hedging strategies and in evaluating the interest rate sensitivity for risk management purposes, our models use market yield curves, which are constantly changing. If the shape or slope of the market yield curves change unexpectedly, the market values of our assets and related hedges may be negatively impacted and/or changes in the value of the hedges may not be effectively correlated with the changes in the value of the hedged assets or liabilities. Our home lending profitability will be significantly reduced if we are not able to resell mortgages. Currently, we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate. The profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to originate or purchase a high volume of loans and to quickly sell them in the secondary market. Thus, we are dependent upon (1) the existence of an active secondary market and (2) our ability to sell loans into that market. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Some of the largest participants in the secondary market, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law. Any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of such government-sponsored enterprises could, in turn, adversely affect our operations. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. We expect to remain eligible to participate in such programs but any significant impairment of our eligibility could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time to time by the sponsoring entity. The profitability of participating in specific programs may vary depending on a number of factors, including our administrative costs of originating and purchasing qualifying loans. 12 Table of Contents The potential for negative amortization in our option adjustable rate mortgage product could have an adverse effect on our credit. Our option adjustable-rate mortgage loan (“Option ARM”) is a unique adjustable-rate mortgage that can provide the borrower with up to four payment options each month and an introductory rate of interest (“start rate”) that is usually much lower than the loan’s fully-indexed interest rate and will last from one month to three months, depending on the type of Option ARM selected by the borrower. Under one of the payment options, the minimum monthly payment may not be sufficient to pay all the interest that accrued during the previous month. When this occurs and the borrower selects the minimum payment option, the unpaid interest is added to the principal balance. This is called negative amortization. We continually monitor the credit risk inherent in the Option ARM and assess the adequacy of our loan loss allowance for our portfolio of Option ARMs in light of prevailing circumstances and the historical and current levels of negative amortization in our Option ARM portfolio. If credit risks associated with the Option ARM were to increase in severity, our earnings could be adversely affected. We have substantial credit risk in connection with qualifying special purpose entities and loan sales. Loan sales and securitization transactions comprise a significant source of our overall funding. Our sales channels include whole loan sales, sales to government-sponsored enterprises and sales through private-label securitizations. Private-label securitizations involve transfers of loans to off-balance sheet qualifying special purpose entities. In our only transaction of this type to date, which occurred in December 2005, we retained residual issued by the qualifying special purpose entity. Residuals that are created in a mortgage loan securitization represent the first loss position and are not typically rated by a nationally recognized rating agency. We are, therefore, at risk for the initial losses that might occur with the securitization. In addition, we retain limited credit exposure from the sale of mortgage loans. We make standard representations and warranties to the transferee in connection with all such dispositions. These representations and warranties do not insure against credit risk associated with the transferred loans, but if individual mortgage loans are found not to have fully complied with the associated representations and warranties, we may be required to repurchase the loans from the transferee. We have established a secondary market reserve for losses that arise in connection with representations and warranties for loans sold. See Note 9 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for further disclosure of credit exposure associated with securitizations. Rising unemployment or a decrease in housing prices could adversely affect our credit performance. The performance of our loan portfolio reflects our underwriting policies and a generally favorable economic environment for real estate lending. We continually monitor changes in the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices. If unemployment were to rise and either a slowdown in housing price appreciation or outright declines in housing prices were to occur, borrowers may be unable to repay their loans. As a result, we could experience higher credit losses in our loan portfolio, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our ability to borrow funds and raise capital could be limited, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our ability to make mortgage loans depends largely on our ability to secure financing on acceptable terms. Our primary sources of funds to meet our financing needs include loan sales and securitizations, consumer deposits, borrowings from the FHLB, borrowings from investment and commercial banks through repurchase agreements and capital. Our ability to maintain borrowing facilities is subject to renewal of these facilities. If we are unable to renew any of these financing arrangements or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on any of the restrictions imposed upon us by our borrowing facilities, then we may have to reduce the number of loans we are able to originate for sale in the secondary market or for our statement of financial condition. A sudden and significant reduction in loan originations could adversely impact our earnings. Additionally, we are required to maintain adequate capital to be regarded as “well capitalized” by the OTS. See Note 22 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. There is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately access capital markets when or if a need for additional capital arises. 13 Table of Contents We face competition from banking and nonbanking companies. We operate in a highly competitive environment and expect competition to continue as financial services companies combine to produce larger companies that are able to offer a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. In addition, customer convenience and service capabilities, such as product lines offered and the accessibility of services, are significant competitive factors. Our most direct competition for loans comes from commercial banks, other savings institutions and national mortgage companies. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, other savings institutions and credit unions doing business in our market areas. As with all banking organizations, we have also experienced competition from nonbanking sources, including mutual funds, corporate and government debt securities and other investment alternatives offered within and outside of our primary market areas. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that were traditionally offered only by banks. Many of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Changes in the regulation of housing government-sponsored enterprises could adversely affect our business. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and the FHLBs are housing government-sponsored enterprises (“GSEs”), which play a powerful role in the mortgage industry. We have significant business relationships with these GSEs, particularly the sale of loans to these entities. Proposals being considered in Congress include establishing a new independent agency to regulate GSEs, imposing new regulatory restrictions on the activities and operations of GSEs and reducing or limiting certain business benefits GSEs receive from the federal government. The enactment of any of these proposals could increase the costs incurred by, or otherwise adversely affect the business of, the GSEs, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business. If we are unable to sell our loans to the GSEs due to limitations imposed on their business, our liquidity in the secondary market could be substantially reduced in the short-term and our earnings could be adversely affected. For further discussion of the FHLB System and the regulation of financial services, see “Regulation and Supervision” above. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings. Reputational risk, which is the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct our business activities, including our sales and trading practices, including practices in our origination and servicing operations and retail banking operations; our management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues; and our protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to our allowance for loan losses, valuations of MSRs, derivative accounting and secondary market reserve. For more information, please refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” below. For instance, we use estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets such as mortgage servicing rights and residual securities that we retain in connection with the sale or securitization of mortgage loans. These estimates are based in part on assumptions regarding prepayment speeds and loan loss levels. If loans in our investment portfolio, or loans underlying our MSRs or residuals prepay faster than estimated or loan loss levels are higher than anticipated, we may be required to write down the value of certain assets which could adversely impact our earnings. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make significant adjustments at the later date to the related amounts recorded at December 31, 2005. 14 Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations are reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. While not impacting economic results, future changes in accounting principles issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board could impact our operational results as reported under U.S. GAAP. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to institutional customers, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with U.S. GAAP or are materially misleading. We may not be able to replace key members of senior management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. We depend on the services of existing senior management to carry out its business and investment strategies. As we expand and as we continue to refine our business model, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional senior management and to recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel as they retire. In addition, as we increase our commercial lending and plans to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel. Competition for such personnel is especially keen in our geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any senior management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. Our internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. We are subject to certain operations risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” herein. The network and computer systems on which we depend could fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on the ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance of Internet banking depends substantially on widespread adoption of the Internet for general commercial and financial services transactions. If another provider of commercial services through the Internet were to suffer damage from physical break-in, security breach or other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users, the growth and public acceptance of the Internet for commercial transactions could suffer. This type of an event could deter our potential customers or cause customers to leave us and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our business is highly regulated. The banking industry in general is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured depository institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. The OTS and the FDIC are primarily responsible for the federal regulation and supervision of the Bank and its affiliated entities. In addition to their regulatory powers, these two agencies also have significant enforcement authority that they can use to address unsafe and unsound banking practices, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. Enforcement powers can be exercised in a number of ways, through either formal or informal actions. Informal enforcement actions customarily remain confidential between the regulator and the financial institution, while more formal enforcement actions are customarily publicly disclosed. Further, the Bank’s business is affected by regulation at the state level, including a variety of consumer protection provisions, many of which provide for a private right of action and pose a risk of class action lawsuits. Banking institutions also are affected by the various monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. government, including those of the Federal Reserve Board, and these policies can influence financial regulatory actions. Accordingly, the actions of those governmental authorities responsible for regulatory, fiscal and monetary affairs can have a significant impact on the activities of financial services firms such as ours. See further information in “Item 1. Business — Regulation and Supervision.” Our business is cyclical. The home lending segment of our business is a cyclical business that generally performs better in a low interest rate environment such as the current one. The environment of historically low interest rates over the past three years has been very favorable for mortgage bankers such as us. As the industry transitions to a higher interest rate environment, the demand for mortgage loans is expected to decrease, which would cause a lower level of growth, or even a reduction, in earnings per share, in the short run. In addition, other external factors, including tax laws, the strength of various segments of the economy and demographics of our lending markets, could influence the level of demand for mortgage loans. Gain on sale of loans is a large component of our revenue and would be adversely impacted by a significant decrease in our mortgage loan volume. Geographic concentrations pose a higher risk of loan losses. A significant portion of our mortgage loan portfolio is geographically concentrated in certain states, including Michigan, California, Florida, Colorado and Washington, that represent approximately 60% of our mortgage loans held for investment balance at December 31, 2005. In addition, a large concentration of our commercial real estate loans are in Michigan. Any adverse economic conditions in these markets could cause the number of loans originated to decrease, likely resulting in a corresponding decline in revenues and an increase in credit risk. Also, we could be adversely affected by business disruptions triggered by natural disasters, including the effects of the Gulf Coast Hurricanes and the effects of any future hurricanes, or acts of war or terrorism in these geographic areas. Other Risk Factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 