ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If our assumptions and estimates in our business model are wrong, our future results could be negatively impacted. The financial covenants in our credit facilities are based upon a business model prepared by our management. We used a number of assumptions and estimates in preparing the business model, including: o We estimated that we will sell our existing and planned inventory of Vacation Intervals within 15 years; o We assumed that our level of sales and operating profits and costs can be maintained and will grow in future periods; o We assumed the availability of credit facilities necessary to sustain our operations and anticipated growth; and o We assumed that we can raise the prices on our products and services as market conditions allow. These assumptions and estimates are subject to significant business, economic and competitive risks and uncertainties. If our assumptions and estimates are wrong, our future financial condition and results of operations may vary significantly from those projected in the business model. Neither our past nor present independent auditors have reviewed or expressed an opinion about our business model or our ability to achieve it. Changes in the timeshare industry could affect our operations. We operate solely within the timeshare industry. Our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected by any of the following events: o An oversupply of timeshare units, o A reduction in demand for timeshare units, o Changes in travel and vacation patterns, o A decrease in popularity of our resorts with our consumers, o Governmental regulations or taxation of the timeshare industry, and o Negative publicity about the timeshare industry. We may be impacted by general economic conditions. Our customers may be more vulnerable to deteriorating economic conditions than consumers in the luxury or upscale timeshare markets. An economic slowdown in the United States could depress consumer spending for Vacation Intervals. Additionally, significant increases in the cost of transportation may limit the number of potential customers who travel to our resorts for a sales presentation. During an economic slowdown we could experience increased delinquencies in the payment of Vacation Interval promissory notes and monthly Club dues. 22 We are at risk for defaults by our customers. We offer financing to the buyers of Vacation Intervals at our resorts. Notes receivable from timeshare buyers constitute one of our principal assets. These buyers make down payments of at least 10% of the purchase price and deliver promissory notes to us for the balances. The promissory notes generally bear interest at a fixed rate, are payable over a seven-year to ten-year period, and are secured by a first mortgage on the Vacation Interval. We bear the risk of defaults on these promissory notes. Although we prescreen prospects by credit scoring them in the early stages of the marketing and sales process, we generally do not perform a detailed credit history review of our customers, as is the case with most other timeshare developers. We recorded 16.2% of the purchase price of Vacation Intervals as a provision for uncollectible notes for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our sales were decreased by $2.6 million for customer returns in 2005. When a buyer of a Vacation Interval defaults, we foreclose on the Vacation Interval and attempt to resell it. The associated marketing, selling, and administrative costs from the original sale are not recovered; and we will incur such costs again when we resell the Vacation Interval. Although we may have recourse against a Vacation Interval buyer for the unpaid price, certain states have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans. For example, if we were to file a lawsuit to collect the balance owed to us by a customer in Texas (where approximately 52% of Vacation Interval sales took place in 2005), the customer could file a court proceeding to determine the fair market value of the property foreclosed upon. In such event, we may not recover a personal judgment against the customer for the full amount of the deficiency. We would only recover an amount that the indebtedness owed to us exceeds the fair market value of the property. Accordingly, we have generally not pursued this remedy. At December 31, 2005, we had Vacation Interval customer notes receivable in the approximate principal amount of $230.5 million, and had an allowance for uncollectible notes of approximately $52.5 million. We cannot be certain that this allowance is adequate. We must borrow funds to finance our operations. Our business is dependent on our ability to finance customer notes receivable through our banks. At December 31, 2005, we owed approximately $174.9 million of principal to our senior lenders. Borrowing Base. We have receivable-based loan agreements with senior lenders to borrow up to approximately $243.1 million. We pledged our customer promissory notes and mortgages as security under these agreements. Our senior lenders typically lend us 75% of the principal amount of our customers' notes, and payments from Silverleaf Owners on such notes are credited directly to the senior lender and applied against our loan balance. At December 31, 2005, we had a portfolio of approximately 30,293 Vacation Interval customer notes receivable in the approximate principal amount of $230.5 million. Approximately $337,000 in principal amount of our customers' notes were 61 days or more past due and, therefore, ineligible as collateral. The amount of customer notes receivable eligible as collateral in the future may not be sufficient to support the borrowings we may require for our liquidity and continued growth. Negative Cash Flow. We ordinarily receive only 10% to 15% of the purchase price as a down payment on the sale of a Vacation Interval, but we must pay in full the costs of development, marketing, and sale of the interval. Maximum borrowings available under our credit facilities may not be sufficient to cover these costs, thereby straining our capital resources, liquidity, and capacity to grow. Interest Rate Mismatch. At December 31, 2005, our portfolio of customer loans had a weighted average fixed interest rate of 15.3%. At such date, our borrowings (which bear interest predominantly at variable rates) against the portfolio had a weighted average cost of funds of 8.1%. We have historically derived net interest income from our financing activities because the interest rates we charge our customers who finance the purchase of their Vacation Intervals exceed the interest rates we pay to our senior lenders. Because our existing indebtedness currently bears interest at variable rates and our customer notes receivable bear interest at fixed rates, increases in interest rates charged by our senior lenders would erode the spread in interest rates that we have historically enjoyed and could cause the interest expense on our borrowings to exceed our interest income on our portfolio of customer notes receivable. Therefore, any increase in interest rates, particularly if sustained, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. To the extent interest rates decrease on loans available to our customers, we face an increased risk that customers will pre-pay their loans, which would reduce our income from financing activities. To partially offset an increase in interest rates, we have engaged in one interest rate hedging transaction related to our conduit loan through SF-II, with a balance of $58.1 million on December 31, 2005. In addition, the Series 2005-A Notes related to our off-balance sheet special purpose finance subsidiary, SF-III, had a balance of $89.1 million at December 31, 2005 and bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.857% to 6.756%. 23 Maturity Mismatch. We typically provide financing to our customers over a seven-year to ten-year period. Our customer notes had an average maturity of 5.5 years at December 31, 2005. Our senior credit facilities have scheduled maturity dates between March 2007 and March 2014. Additionally, should our revolving credit facilities be declared in default, the amount outstanding could be declared to be immediately due and payable. Accordingly, there could be a mismatch between our anticipated cash receipts and cash disbursements in 2006 and subsequent periods. Although we have historically been able to secure financing sufficient to fund our operations, we do not presently have agreements with our senior lenders to extend the term of our existing funding commitments beyond their scheduled maturity dates or to replace such commitments upon their expiration. If we are unable to refinance our existing loans, we could be required to sell our portfolio of customer notes receivable, probably at a substantial discount, or to seek other alternatives to enable us to continue in business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain required financing in the future. Impact on Sales. Limitations on the availability of financing would inhibit sales of Vacation Intervals due to (i) the lack of funds to finance the initial negative cash flow that results from sales that we finance and (ii) reduced demand if we are unable to provide financing to purchasers of Vacation Intervals. We may not be able to obtain additional financing. Several unpredictable factors may cause our adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to be insufficient to meet debt service requirements or satisfy financial covenants. We incurred net losses in one of the past three years and in two of the past five years. Should we record net losses in future periods, our cash flow and our ability to obtain additional financing could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of the factors that will determine whether or not we generate sufficient earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization to meet current or future debt service requirements and satisfy financial covenants are inherently difficult to predict. These factors include: o the number of sales of Vacation Intervals; o the average purchase price per interval; o the number of customer defaults; o our cost of borrowing; o our sales and marketing costs and other operating expenses; and o the continued sale of notes receivable. Our current and planned expenses and debt repayment levels are and will be to a large extent fixed in the short term, and are based in part on past expectations as to future revenues and cash flows. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any past or future revenue or cash flow shortfall. It is possible that our revenue, cash flow or operating results may not meet the expectations of our business model, and may even result in our being unable to meet the debt repayment schedules or financial covenants contained in the various agreements which evidence our indebtedness. Our leverage is significant and may impair our ability to obtain additional financing, reduce the amount of cash available for operations, and make us more vulnerable to financial downturns. Our agreements with our various lenders may: o require a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used to pay interest expense and principal; o impair our ability to obtain on acceptable terms, if at all, additional financing that might be necessary for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes; and o limit our ability to further refinance or amend the terms of our existing debt obligations, if necessary or advisable. We may not be able to manage our financial leverage as we intend, and we may not be able to achieve an appropriate balance between the rate of growth which we consider acceptable and future reductions in financial leverage. If we are not able to achieve growth in adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt obligations and we may be precluded from incurring additional indebtedness due to cash flow coverage requirements under existing or future debt instruments. 24 Our business is highly regulated. We are subject to substantial governmental regulation in the conduct of our business. See “Item 1. Business - Governmental Regulation, Environmental Matters, Utility Regulation, Other Regulation, and Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If we are found to have violated any statute, rule, or regulation applicable to us, our assets, or our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. We are dependent on our key personnel. The loss of the services of the key members of management or our inability to hire when needed, retain, and integrate needed new or replacement management and employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position in future periods. We will incur costs at our resorts for additional development and construction activities. We intend to continue to develop our Existing Resorts. We also intend to acquire or develop additional timeshare resorts; however, continued development of our resorts places substantial demands on our liquidity and capital resources, as well as on our personnel and administrative capabilities. Risks associated with our development and construction activities include: o construction costs or delays at a property may exceed original estimates which could make the development uneconomical or unprofitable; o sales of Vacation Intervals at a newly completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; and o financing may not be available on favorable terms for development of or the continued sales of Vacation Intervals at a property. We cannot be certain that we will have the liquidity and capital resources to develop and expand our resorts as we presently intend. Our development and construction activities, as well as our ownership and management of real estate, are subject to comprehensive federal, state, and local laws regulating such matters as environmental and health concerns, protection of endangered species, water supplies, zoning, land development, land use, building design and construction, marketing and sales, and other matters. Our failure to maintain the requisite licenses, permits, allocations, authorizations, and other entitlements pursuant to such laws could impact the development, completion, and sale of Vacation Intervals at our resorts. The enactment of "slow growth" or "no-growth" initiatives or changes in labor or other laws in any area where our resorts are located could also delay, affect the cost or feasibility of, or preclude entirely the expansion planned at one or more of our resorts. Most of our resorts are located in rustic areas which in the past has often required us to provide public utility water and sanitation services in order to proceed with development. This development is subject to permission and regulation by governmental agencies, the denial or conditioning of which could limit or preclude development. Operation of the utilities also subjects us to risk of liability in connection with both the quality of fresh water provided and the treatment and discharge of waste-water. We must incur costs to comply with laws governing accessibility of facilities to disabled persons. We are subject to a number of state and federal laws, including the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA"), that impose requirements related to access and use by disabled persons of a variety of public accommodations and facilities. The ADA requirements did not become effective until after January 1, 1991. Although we believe our Existing Resorts are substantially in compliance with these laws, we will incur additional costs to fully comply with these laws. Additional federal, state, and local legislation may impose further restrictions or requirements on us with respect to access by disabled persons. The ultimate cost of compliance with such legislation is not currently known. Such costs are not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition, but these costs could be substantial. We may be vulnerable to regional conditions. Our performance and the value of our properties are affected by regional factors, including local economic conditions (which may be adversely impacted by business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics, and other factors) and the local regulatory climate. Our current geographic concentration could make us more susceptible to adverse events or conditions that affect these areas in particular. At December 31, 2005, 55% of our owners lived in Texas, 15% lived in Illinois, 8% lived in Massachusetts, and 4% lived in Missouri. Our remaining customer base lives primarily in other states within the United States of America. 25 We may be liable for environmental claims. Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, as well as common law, the owner or operator of real property generally is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on, in, or emanating from, such property, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease a property or to borrow money using such real property as collateral. Other federal and state laws require the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing material when such material is in poor condition or in the event of construction, demolition, remodeling, or renovation. Other statutes may require the removal of underground storage tanks. Noncompliance with these and other environmental, health, or safety requirements may result in the need to cease or alter operations at a property. Further, the owner or operator of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with the site. Phase I environmental reports (which typically involve inspection without soil sampling or ground water analysis) were prepared in 2001 by independent environmental consultants for all of the Existing Resorts. The reports did not reveal, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, or financial position. We cannot be certain that the Phase I reports revealed all environmental liabilities or that no prior owner created any material environmental condition not known to us. Certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. A transfer of the property may not relieve an owner of such liability. Thus, we may have liability with respect to properties previously sold by us or by our predecessors. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state, and local ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances. We have not been notified by any governmental authority or third party of any non-compliance, liability, or other claim in connection with any of our present or former properties. Our sales could decline if our resorts do not qualify for participation in an exchange network. The attractiveness of Vacation Interval ownership is enhanced by the availability of exchange networks that allow Silverleaf Owners to exchange in a particular year the occupancy right in their Vacation Interval for an occupancy right in another participating network resort. According to ARDA, the ability to exchange Vacation Intervals was cited by many buyers as an important reason for purchasing a Vacation Interval. Several companies, including RCI, provide broad-based Vacation Interval exchange services, and as of December 31, 2005, the Existing Resorts are qualified for participation in the RCI exchange network (except for Orlando Breeze, which is qualified through Interval International, a competitor of RCI). We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to qualify the Existing Resorts or any future resorts for participation in these networks or any other exchange network. If such exchange networks cease to function effectively, or if our resorts are not accepted as exchanges for other desirable resorts, our sales of Vacation Intervals could decline. Our sales would be affected by a secondary market for Vacation Intervals. We believe the market for resale of Vacation Intervals is very limited and that resale prices are substantially below the original purchase price of a Vacation Interval. This may make ownership of Vacation Intervals less attractive to prospective buyers. Owners of Vacation Intervals who wish to sell their Vacation Interval compete with our sales. Vacation Interval resale clearing houses and brokers, including Internet-based clearinghouses, do not currently have a material impact on our sales. However, if the secondary market for Vacation Intervals becomes more organized and liquid, whether through Internet-based clearinghouses and brokers or other means, the availability of resale intervals at lower prices could materially adversely affect our prices and our ability to sell new Vacation Intervals. Our sales are seasonal in nature. Our sales of Vacation Intervals have generally been lower in the months of November and December. Cash flow and earnings may be impacted by the timing of development, the completion of future resorts, and the potential impact of weather or other conditions in the regions where we operate. Our quarterly operating results could be negatively impacted by these factors. 26 We are not insured for certain types of losses. We do not insure certain types of losses (such as losses arising from floods and acts of war) either because insurance is unavailable or unaffordable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could be required to repair damage at our expense or lose our capital invested in a resort, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such resort. We would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position could be adversely affected by such losses. We will continue to be leveraged. Our ability to finance customer notes receivable and develop our resorts will be financed through borrowed funds, which would be collateralized by certain of our assets. In addition, our loan agreements contain financial covenants that must be complied with in order to continue to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. Future loan agreements would likely contain similar restrictions. The indentures pertaining to our 6% and 8% senior subordinated notes permit us to incur certain additional indebtedness, including indebtedness secured by our customer notes receivable. Accordingly, to the extent our customer notes receivable increase and we have sufficient credit facilities available, we may be able to borrow additional funds. The indentures pertaining to our 6% and 8% senior subordinated notes also permit us to borrow additional funds in order to finance development of our resorts. Future construction loans will likely result in liens against the respective properties. Common Stock could be impacted by our indebtedness. The level of our indebtedness could negatively impact holders of our Common Stock, because: o a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; o our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; o our level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility in reacting to changes in the industry and economic conditions generally; o negative covenants in our loan agreements may limit our management’s ability to operate our business in the best interests of our shareholders; o some of our loans are at variable rates of interest, and a substantial increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to meet debt service obligations; and o increased interest expense will reduce earnings, if any. We could lose the right to supervise and manage the Clubs. Each Existing Resort has a Club that operates through a centralized organization called Silverleaf Club, to manage most of our Existing Resorts on a collective basis, except for Orlando Breeze, which has its own Club. The consolidation of operations at most of our Existing Resorts through Silverleaf Club permits: o a centralized reservation system for all resorts; o substantial cost savings by purchasing goods and services for all resorts on a group basis, which generally results in a lower cost of goods and services than if such goods and services were purchased by each resort on an individual basis; o centralized management for the entire resort system; o centralized legal, accounting, and administrative services for the entire resort system; and o uniform implementation of various rules and regulations governing all resorts. We currently have the right to unilaterally appoint the board of directors or governors of the Clubs until the respective control periods have expired (typically triggered by the percentage of sales of the planned development), unless otherwise provided by the bylaws of the association or under applicable law. Thereafter, the bylaws of certain of the Clubs require that a majority of the members of the board of directors or governors of the Club be owners of Vacation Intervals of that resort. The loss of control of the board of directors or governors of a Club could result in our being unable to unilaterally cause the renewal of the collective Management Agreement with that Club when it expires in 2010. This could result in a loss of revenue and have other materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 27 We could issue Preferred Stock that would have rights and preferences senior to Common Stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series and to establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to convert into Common Stock) of any series of Preferred Stock issued. Such preferences and rights would likely grant to the holders of the Preferred Stock certain preferences in right of payment upon a dissolution of the Company and the liquidation of our assets that would not be available to the holders of our Common Stock. To the extent that our credit facilities would permit, the Board could also establish a dividend payable to the holders of the Preferred Stock that would not be available to the holders of the Common Stock. Our cash flow may not be adequate upon an acceleration of deferred taxes. While we report sales of Vacation Intervals as income for financial reporting purposes at the time of the sale, for federal income tax purposes, we report substantially all Vacation Interval sales on the installment method. Under the installment method, we recognize income for regular federal income tax purposes on the sale of Vacation Intervals when cash is received in the form of a down payment and as payments on customer loans are received. Our liability for deferred taxes (i.e., taxes owed to taxing authorities in the future in consequence of income previously reported in the financial statements) was $80.1 million at December 31, 2005, primarily attributable to this method of reporting Vacation Interval sales, before utilization of any available deferred tax benefits (up to $71.6 million at December 31, 2005), including net operating loss carryforwards, limitations on the use of which are discussed below. These amounts do not include accrued interest on the deferred taxes, which will be payable if the deferred taxes become payable, the amount of which is not now reasonably ascertainable. If we should sell the installment notes or be required to factor them or if the notes were foreclosed on by one of our senior lenders or otherwise disposed of, the deferred gain would be reportable for regular federal tax purposes and the deferred taxes, including interest on the taxes for the period the taxes were deferred, as computed under Section 453 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), would become due. We cannot be certain that we would have sufficient cash resources to pay those taxes and interest nor can we be certain how the payment of such taxes may affect our operational liquidity needs. Furthermore, if our sales of Vacation Intervals should decrease in the future, our diminished operations may not generate either sufficient tax losses to offset taxable income or funds to pay the deferred tax liability from prior periods. We will be subject to Alternative Minimum Taxes. For purposes of computing the 20% alternative minimum tax ("AMT") imposed under Section 55 of the Code on our alternative minimum taxable income (“AMTI”), the installment sale method is generally not allowed. The Code requires an adjustment to our AMTI for a portion of our adjusted current earnings (“ACE”). Our ACE must be computed without application of the installment sale method. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will pay significant AMT in future years. Section 53 of the Code does provide that we will be allowed a credit (“minimum tax credit”) against our regular federal income tax liability for all or a portion of any AMT previously paid. Due to losses incurred in 2000 and 2001, we received refunds of AMT totaling $8.3 million during 2001 and $1.6 million during 2002 as a result of the carryback of our 2000 and 2001 AMT losses to 1999, 1998, and 1997. For 2005, we believe our AMT liability is approximately $2.2 million, with the result that we will have total AMT credit carryforwards of approximately $2.9 million as of December 31, 2005. Due to the exchange offer described in the next paragraph, an ownership change, within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Code occurred. Under Section 383, the amount of the excess credits which exist as of the date of an ownership change can be used to offset tax liability for post-change years only to the extent of the Section 383 Credit Limitation, which amount is defined as the tax liability which is attributable to so much of the taxable income as does not exceed the Section 382 limitation for such post-change year to the extent available after the application of various adjustments. As a result of the above-described refunds of previously paid AMT, there is no minimum tax credit that is subject to Section 383 of the Code as a result of our ownership change. If it is subsequently determined that we have an AMT liability for prior years, and thus a minimum tax credit as of the time of the exchange offer, or if additional "ownership changes" within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Code occur in the future, we cannot be certain that such ownership changes will not result in a limitation on the use of any such minimum tax credit. Our use of net operating loss carryforwards could be limited by an ownership change. We had net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards of approximately $178.4 million at December 31, 2005, for regular federal income tax purposes, related primarily to the immediate deduction of expenses and the simultaneous deferral of installment sale gains. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of NOLs under Section 172 of the Code, Section 382 of the Code imposes additional limitations on the utilization of NOLs by a corporation following various types of ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three year period. Our completion in 2002 of our exchange offer with certain holders of our senior subordinated notes resulted in an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Code as of May 2, 2002 (the "change date"). As a result, a portion of our NOL is subject to an annual limitation for a portion of the taxable year, which includes the change date as well as the taxable years beginning after the change date. The annual limitation will be equal to the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (i.e., the highest of the adjusted Federal long-term rates in effect for any month in the three-calendar-month period ending with the calendar month in which the change date occurs). This annual limitation is small in comparison to the size of the NOL carryforwards. However, the annual limitation may be increased for any recognized built-in gain, which existed as of the change date to the extent allowed in Section 382(h) of the Code. 28 We believe that the built-in gain associated with the installment sale gains as of the change date increases the Section 382 Limitation and will allow the utilization of most of the NOL as needed. Nevertheless, we cannot be certain that the limitations of Section 382 will not limit or deny our future utilization of the NOL. Such limitation or denial could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest for periods following the change date. As of December 31, 2005, we believe that the portion of our NOL subject to these limitations is approximately $57.8 million. Moreover, we cannot be certain that future ownership changes will not limit or deny our future utilization of all of our NOL. If we cannot utilize our NOL, we will be required to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity. We could be liable for back payroll taxes if our independent contractors are reclassified as employees. Although we treat all on-site sales personnel as employees for payroll tax purposes, we do have independent contractor agreements with certain sales and marketing persons or entities. We have not treated these independent contractors as employees and do not withhold payroll taxes from the amounts paid to such persons or entities. In the event the Internal Revenue Service or any state or local taxing authority were to successfully classify such persons or entities as employees, rather than as independent contractors, we could be liable for back payroll taxes. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. We could be negatively impacted by National and state Do Not Call Lists. We rely heavily on telemarketing activities to arrange tours of our resorts to potential customers. On July 3, 2003, the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") released new rules and regulations promulgated under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, which could have a negative impact on our telemarketing activities. The FCC has implemented, in conjunction with the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), a National Do Not Call Registry, which applies to both interstate and intrastate commercial telemarketing calls. The FTC has reported that approximately 83 million telephone numbers had been registered on the National Do Not Call Registry by the end of 2004. This could sharply limit the number of contacts we will be able to make through our telemarketing activities. We will continue to telemarket to individuals who do not place their telephone numbers on a do-not-call list and those with whom we have an established business relationship. Our use of autodialers to call potential customers in our database could also be restricted by new call abandonment standards specified in the FCC rules and regulations. We cannot currently determine the impact that these new regulations could have on our sales; however, the large number of telephone numbers registered on the National Do Not Call Registry and the restrictions on our use of autodialers could negatively affect our sales and marketing efforts and require us to use less effective, more expensive alternative marketing methods. The new rules became effective on October 1, 2003 and we have experienced a decline in the number of telemarketing calls we are able to complete as a result of the changes in the rules relating to the use of automatic dialers. All companies involved in telemarketing expect some negative impact to their businesses as a result of the do-not-call rules and other federal and state legislation, which seeks to protect the privacy of consumers from various types of marketing solicitations. Because of our historical dependence on telemarketing, we believe that these changes in the law will continue to have a material impact on our operations and will require us to modify our historical marketing practices in order to both remain compliant with the law and to achieve the levels of resort tours by consumers which are necessary for our profitable operation. We will continue to assess both the rules' impact on operations and alternative methods of marketing, such as direct mail, that are not impacted by the new rules. In addition to the National Do Not Call List, various states have implemented Do Not Call legislation that also may affect our business. The substantially increased costs of our compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirements of Section 404, may adversely affect our available cash, our management team’s attention to our core business, and the price of our stock. 29 We are not yet required to fully comply with the internal control reporting provisions of §404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the SEC to implement §404. Unless extended further by the SEC, companies of our size (i.e., non-accelerated filers) are required to be in full compliance with §404 for fiscal years ending on or after July 15, 2007. If we become subject to §404, we will be required to furnish a report by our management to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report would include, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Section 404 would also require our auditors to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control. In an effort to be prepared to comply with the requirements of §404, we have taken steps over the last several years to increase the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These internal control enhancements have resulted in substantially increased costs to us. Our management also regularly evaluates the effectiveness and design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. While we currently believe our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting which are in place are effective and properly documented, we may find it necessary to continue to incur substantially increased costs in future periods to further enhance our internal controls over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that our continuing assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting will not result in increased costs of compliance which may adversely affect our available cash, our management team’s attention to our core business, and our stock price. The market trading price of our Common Stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The market trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. For example, the closing market trading price for our common stock has fluctuated over the past two years from a low of $0.67 to a high of $4.29. Because of our stock’s history of trading volatility, we believe that significant market fluctuations are likely to continue in future periods. The trading market for our Common Stock may be limited. Only approximately 35% of our shares are held by non-affiliates and there has historically been a low and inconsistent trading volume for our shares. For example, the average daily trading volume for our shares for the two-month period ended February 28, 2006 was approximately 75,000 shares. There can be no assurance that an active and steady trading market, which is not subject to extreme fluctuations, will develop for our shares. Sales of Common Stock by existing shareholders, including officers or directors, may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Approximately 65% of our common stock is held by affiliates, including our officers and directors. Volume sales of stock by these affiliates in the trading market coupled with the historically low daily trading volume for our common stock may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the AMEX. Effective as of September 19, 2005, AMEX accepted our stock for trading. However, due to the historic volatility of the market trading price of our common stock, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the requirements for continued listing on AMEX. Our failure to comply with AMEX listing standards could result in the delisting of our common stock by AMEX, thereby limiting the ability of our shareholders to sell our common stock. Certain of our existing shareholders have the ability to exert a significant amount of control over the Company. As of December 31, 2005, Robert E. Mead, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 30.3% of our outstanding common stock and two related entities, Grace Brothers, Ltd. and Grace Investments, Ltd., (collectively “Grace”), beneficially owned 32.3% of our common stock. As a result, these individuals and entities are able to exert significant influence over the Company and its activities, including the nomination, election and removal of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our charter documents, and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Mead's interests and Grace's interest may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and they may take actions affecting us with which other shareholders may disagree. For example, if they determined to act in concert, Grace and Mr. Mead may decide not to enter into a transaction in which our shareholders would receive consideration for their shares that is much higher than the cost of their investment in our common stock, or than the then current market price of our common stock. 30 Available Information We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The general public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. This site is located at www.sec.gov. Our Internet address is www.silverleafresorts.com. On our Internet website, we provide a link to the SEC’s website where our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 can be viewed. Upon request, we will make available free of charge copies of the aforementioned reports, as well as copies of the charters of the three independent committees of our board of directors and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This information can be requested by written request to us at: Silverleaf Resorts Inc. Attention: Sandra G. Cearley, Corporate Secretary, 1221 River Bend Drive, Suite 120, Dallas, Texas 75247. The information contained on our website, or on other websites linked to our website, is not part of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 