Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating VF’s business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect VF’s business, its operating results and its financial condition. VF’s revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions. A return to recessionary conditions or a decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on VF. The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. The success of VF’s business depends on consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates, consumer credit availability, unemployment, stock market performance, extreme weather conditions, energy prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional and local markets where VF’s products are sold. Consumer spending advanced at a relatively slow pace from 2010 through 2012, following the recessionary conditions of 2008 and early 2009, and the outlook for 2013 is uncertain as consumers face higher taxes. A decline in actual or perceived economic conditions or other factors could negatively impact the level of consumer spending and have a material adverse impact on VF. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and finished goods could increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics, leather or other raw materials used by VF in its manufactured products, or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse effect on VF’s cost of sales or its ability to meet its customers’ demands. The prices we pay depend on demand and market prices for 13 the raw materials used to produce them. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including general economic conditions and demand, crop yields, energy prices, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities markets. Prices of purchased finished products also depend on wage rates in Asia and other geographic areas where our independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs from those regions. In the future, VF may not be able to offset cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to pass higher costs on to its customers. This could have a material adverse effect on VF’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by weather conditions. Our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. A significant portion of the sales of our products is dependent in part on the weather and is likely to decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter, which occurred in the winter of 2011/2012, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season generally negatively affects orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. VF’s net sales depend on a volume of traffic to its stores and the availability of suitable lease space. A growing portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer sales through VF-operated stores. In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful retail shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. Our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. Further, if we are unable to renew or replace our existing store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. All of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The apparel and footwear industries are highly competitive, and VF’s success depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing markets. VF competes with numerous apparel and footwear brands and manufacturers. Competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, design, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Some of our competitors are larger and have more resources than VF in some product categories and regions. In addition, VF competes directly with the private label brands of most of its wholesale customers. VF’s ability to compete within the apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to: • Anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely manner; • Develop attractive, innovative and high quality products that meet consumer needs; • Maintain strong brand recognition; • Price products appropriately; • Provide best-in-class marketing support and intelligence; • Ensure product availability and optimize supply chain efficiencies; and 14 • Obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our products at retail. • Produce or procure quality products on a consistent basis. Failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect on VF’s business, financial condition and results of operations. VF’s results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to gauge fashion trends and accurately forecast demand for our products. Our success depends in part on management’s ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing fashion preferences and consumer demands and to translate trends into marketable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. We often schedule internal production and place orders for products with independent manufacturers before our customers’ orders are firm. Factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: • Our failure to anticipate changing styles or trends or accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products; • New, well-received product introductions by competitors; • Unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; • Weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which reduce demand for VF’s products; and • Terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of products and raw materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing fashion trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. Inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of VF’s brands and negatively impact profitability. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to VF’s reputation and relationships. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image as well as our results of operations and financial condition. VF’s business and the success of its products could be harmed if VF is unable to maintain the images of its brands. VF’s success to date has been due in large part to the growth of its brands’ images and VF’s customers’ connection to its brands. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the names and images of our brands may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands’ images to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular. In addition, brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of qualities, including merchandise quality and corporate integrity. Negative claims or publicity regarding VF, its brands or its products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales regardless of whether such claims are accurate. Social media, which accelerates the dissemination of information, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. In the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our businesses may be similarly affected in the future. 15 A substantial portion of VF’s revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. The loss of any of these customers or the inability of any of these customers to pay their receivables owed to VF could substantially reduce VF’s revenues and profits. A few of VF’s customers account for a significant portion of revenues. Sales to VF’s ten largest customers were 21% of total revenues in fiscal 2012, with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. accounting for 8% of revenues. Sales to our customers are generally on a purchase order basis and not subject to long-term agreements. A decision by any of VF’s major customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from VF could substantially reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores’ target markets. These developments could result in a reduction in the number of stores that carry VF’s products, an increase in ownership concentration within the retail industry, an increase in credit exposure to VF or an increase in leverage by VF’s customers over their suppliers. These changes could impact VF’s opportunities in the market and increase VF’s reliance on a smaller number of large customers. Further, the global recession — with rising unemployment, reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and declines in real estate and securities values — had and is continuing to have a negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. These lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. This may result in higher credit risk to VF relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. If these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on VF’s trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and results of operations. VF’s profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. If these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, VF’s profitability will decline. This could have a material adverse effect on VF’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. VF may not succeed in its growth strategy. One of VF’s key strategic objectives is growth. We seek to grow organically and through acquisitions. We seek to grow by building new lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning customers, stretching VF’s brands to new regions, managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information technology capabilities across VF and expanding our direct-to-consumer business, including opening new stores and remodeling and expanding our existing stores. We may not be able to grow our existing businesses. We may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such integration. We may not be able to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. We may have difficulty recruiting, developing or retaining qualified employees. We may not be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. Failure to implement our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on VF’s business. There are risks associated with VF’s acquisitions. Any acquisitions or mergers by VF will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. These risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the companies and the loss of 16 key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. In addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions, including in connection with the current integration of The Timberland Company acquisition. Our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges in the future. We also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If our estimates or assumptions used to value these assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to losses that may be material. VF’s operations in international markets, and earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European Union or other countries on the import or export of our products, or what effect any of these actions would have on VF’s business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot predict whether there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from international jurisdictions. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect VF’s business or may require us to modify our current business practices. Approximately 62% of VF’s 2012 net income was earned in jurisdictions outside the U.S. VF is exposed to risks of changes in U.S. policy for companies having business operations outside the United States. A number of changes in U.S. income tax laws have been proposed recently, including overall corporate and individual tax reform. Some of these tax law changes and tax reform proposals, among other things, consider accelerating the U.S. taxability of non-U.S. earnings or limit foreign tax credits. While enactment of any such proposal is not certain, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our U.S. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce our earnings. We may have additional tax liabilities. As a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various competing tax jurisdictions based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. This analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. These determinations are the subject of periodic domestic and foreign tax audits. Although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings. Unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, in an effort to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly affect the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. Concerns regarding the European debt crisis, market perceptions and euro instability could adversely affect VF’s business, results of operations and financing. VF generated approximately 22% of its total revenues from European countries during 2012. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of a number of countries in the Eurozone, and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency 17 given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro currency and Eurozone dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at that time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of VF’s euro-denominated assets and obligations. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally, and more specifically on the ability of VF’s customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses. VF uses third party suppliers and manufacturing facilities worldwide for a substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products, which poses risks to VF’s business operations. During fiscal 2012, approximately 72% of VF’s units were purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in Asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by VF-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe and the Middle East. Any of the following could impact our ability to produce or deliver VF products: • Political or labor instability in countries where VF’s facilities, contractors and suppliers are located; • Political or military conflict could cause a delay in the transportation of raw materials and products to VF and an increase in transportation costs; • Disruption at ports of entry could cause delays in product availability and increase transportation times and costs; • Heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; • Decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of VF products, increased costs for VF’s anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its brands; • Disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the H1N1 virus, bird flu, SARS, mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargo of VF’s goods produced in infected areas; • Imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; • Imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and • Imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual property rights. Although no single supplier and no one country is critical to VF’s production needs, if we were to lose a supplier it could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to VF, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. This, along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on VF’s revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. Our business is subject to national, state and local laws and regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other matters. The costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations by VF or by independent suppliers who manufacture products for VF could have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows, as well as on our reputation. Our business is subject to comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, employment, safety and other matters. VF could be adversely affected by costs of compliance 18 with or violations of those laws and regulations. In addition, while we do not control their business practices, we require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. The costs of products purchased by VF from independent contractors could increase due to the costs of compliance by those contractors. Failure by VF or its third party suppliers to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could result in interruption of finished goods shipments to VF, cancellation of orders by customers, and termination of relationships. If one of our independent contractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, it could jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts, that may reduce demand for VF’s merchandise. Damage to VF’s reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on VF’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild VF’s reputation. VF’s business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. VF’s hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. A growing percentage of VF’s total revenues (approximately 37% in 2012) is derived from markets outside the U.S. VF’s international businesses operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which VF’s international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell products. In addition, for VF’s U.S.-based businesses, the majority of products are sourced from independent contractors or VF plants located in foreign countries. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Furthermore, much of VF’s licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on VF’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a significant portion of our foreign currency transaction exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce risks in our cash flows and earnings. Our hedging strategy may not be effective in reducing all risks, and no hedging strategy can completely insulate VF from foreign exchange risk. We do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes. Further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose VF to counterparty risks. Although VF only enters into hedging contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on VF’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. VF borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support seasonal working capital requirements. Long-term debt is part of VF’s total capital structure. Because of conditions in global credit markets, VF may have difficulty accessing capital markets for short or long-term financing. Particularly in 2008 and continuing to a lesser extent during the last four years, global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption, with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. Many corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets. We typically use short-term commercial paper borrowings to support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows from operations. VF was able to continue to borrow in the commercial paper markets during the last four years. In the future, VF may seek to access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth opportunities. There is no assurance that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital markets 19 will continue to be reliable sources of financing for VF. If VF does not have access to financing, it could have a material adverse impact on VF’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. VF has a global revolving credit facility. One or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on VF’s business. VF has a $1.25 billion global revolving credit facility that expires in December 2016. If the financial markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. This could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. The loss of members of VF’s executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business. VF depends on the services and management experience of its executive officers and business leaders who have substantial experience and expertise in VF’s business. VF also depends on other key employees involved in the operation of its business. Competition for experienced and well-qualified personnel is intense. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on VF. VF may be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual property rights. VF’s trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its success and its competitive position. VF is susceptible to others copying its products and infringing its intellectual property rights especially with the shift in product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products in recent years. Some of VF’s brands, such as The North Face®, Timberland®, Vans®, JanSport®, Nautica®, Wrangler® and Lee® brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of counterfeiting and infringement. Counterfeiting of VF’s products or infringement on its intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect VF’s revenues. Actions we have taken to establish and protect VF’s intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent copying of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of VF’s products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, unilateral actions in the United States or other countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on VF’s ability to enforce those rights. The value of VF’s intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of VF, or trademarks that are similar to VF’s trademarks, or trademarks that VF licenses from others. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to VF’s trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. VF is from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its intellectual property rights. VF is subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of VF’s brands. During 2012, $113.8 million of VF’s revenues were derived from licensing royalties. Although VF generally has significant control over its licensees’ products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. Failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect VF’s revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. Risks are also associated with a licensee’s ability to: • Obtain capital; 20 • Manage its labor relations; • Maintain relationships with its suppliers; • Manage its credit risk effectively; • Maintain relationships with its customers; and • Adhere to VF’s Global Compliance Principles. In addition, VF relies on its licensees to help preserve the value of its brands. Although we attempt to protect VF’s brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed VF brands by our licensees. The misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on VF. VF has entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. Loss of a license could have an adverse effect on VF’s operating results. VF has entered into agreements to market products under licenses granted by third parties, including Major League Baseball, the National Football League and Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc. Some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain renewal options. Loss of a license, which in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related operating and intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on VF’s operating results. VF relies significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm VF’s ability to effectively operate its business. Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of VF’s business, including corporate email communications, e-commerce operations, retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing, and our interaction with the public in the social media space. In the normal course of business we often collect, retain and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. There is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches and VF and its customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in VF’s systems. It could require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach and severely damage our reputation and our relationships with customers. If VF encounters problems with its distribution system, VF’s ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected. VF relies on owned or independently-operated distribution facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers. VF’s distribution system includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. Because substantially all of VF’s products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, VF’s operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters affecting its distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect VF from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in VF’s 21 distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. In addition, VF’s distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from its distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. VF’s balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. A decline in the fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in VF’s Consolidated Statement of Income and could be material. We evaluate goodwill and nonamortizing trademark intangible assets for possible impairment at least annually. In addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. For these impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. If the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. During 2010, we recognized $201.7 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. At December 2012, VF had indefinite-lived intangible assets of approximately $2.4 billion related to trademarks and $2.0 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. In addition, VF had approximately $0.6 billion of intangible assets that are being amortized. Goodwill and intangible assets combined represent 51% of VF’s total assets and 96% of stockholders’ equity. It is possible that we could have an impairment charge for goodwill or trademark intangible assets in future periods if (i) overall economic conditions in 2013 or future years vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable multiples of revenues and EBITDA and, accordingly, lower implied values of goodwill and intangible assets. A future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase VF’s defined benefit pension costs. VF currently has unfunded obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. The funded status of the pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on investment assets and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for VF’s business. VF’s operating performance also may be negatively impacted by the amount of expense recorded for its pension plans. Pension expense is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. Differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are deferred and amortized as part of future pension expense, which can create volatility that adversely impacts VF’s future operating results. VF’s direct-to-consumer business includes risks that could have an adverse effect on its results. VF sells merchandise direct-to-consumer through VF-operated stores and over the Internet through its websites. Its direct-to-consumer business is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results. Risks include, but are not limited to, (a) domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside VF’s control, (b) failure of the systems that operate the stores and websites, and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, (c) credit card fraud, and (d) risks 22 related to VF’s direct-to-consumer distribution centers. Risks specific to VF’s e-commerce business also include (a) diversion of sales from VF stores, (b) difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and (c) liability for online content. VF’s failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in its Internet business, as well as damage its reputation and brands. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 