ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers are cautioned to carefully consider the following risk factors. The risks described below should not be considered to be comprehensive and all-inclusive. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any events occur that give rise to the following risks, our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and as a result, the trading price of our Common Stock could be materially and adversely impacted. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other information set forth in this report, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. Our results of operations are dependent on significant revenues from two industries. For the years ended July 31, 2006 and 2005, 57% and 58% of our total revenues, respectively, were derived from the insurance industry and 20% and 19% of our total revenues, respectively, were derived from the utilities industry. Our financial performance and future growth will depend upon our ability to continue to market our solutions successfully in the insurance and utilities industries and to enhance and market technologies for distribution in other markets. We entered the financial services industry during fiscal year 2000, and with the acquisition of Newbridge in fiscal 2005, we added the health care industry. We plan to expand into additional vertical markets in the future. This will require us to make substantial software development and distribution channel investments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue marketing our solutions successfully in the insurance and utilities industries or will be able to successfully introduce new or existing solutions into the financial services industry or other vertical markets. Our business has experienced declines in ASP hosting margins. We have experienced a significant decline in our ASP hosting gross profit percentage. Our gross profit as a percentage of ASP hosting revenue was 18% during fiscal 2004 compared to 10% in fiscal 2006 and 2005. Factors negatively impacting the ASP hosting margins include loss of a significant customer, competitive pricing pressures for both new and renewal business and excess ASP hosting capacity. There is no assurance that we will retain all of our existing ASP hosting clients and the loss of a significant customer would negatively impact our ASP hosting margins. In addition, we may have to offer more competitive pricing to win new business. Further deterioration of, or our inability to improve, ASP hosting margins would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 11 Our operating results depend heavily on software license revenue which is difficult to forecast. We have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to the fact that software sales cycles, from initial evaluation to purchase, vary substantially from customer to customer. Delays in the sales cycle frequently occur as a result of competition, changes in customer personnel, overall budget and spending priorities and the economy. A large portion of our software license revenue is generated from a small number of relatively large agreements executed in the latter part of a quarter. The timing of such large agreements is often unpredictable and impacted by events beyond our control, therefore making it difficult to forecast software license revenue accurately. We have typically operated with little backlog for license revenues because our software solutions are generally shipped soon after orders are received. As a result, license revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. The delay of customer orders for a small number of licenses could adversely affect the license revenues and profitability for a given fiscal quarter. The failure to achieve such revenues could have a material adverse effect on our financial results for each such interim period. We may face difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly technical employees. The employees that are in highest demand are software programmers, software developers, application integrators and information technology consultants. Additionally, maintaining and improving our sales productivity may be impacted by our ability to retain, hire and train effective sales management and direct sales personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of our technical or experienced sales employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are dependent upon key management personnel. We believe that our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management. In particular, the loss of Michael D. Andereck, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or any of our other executive officers or senior managers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Currently, Mr. Andereck is performing certain duties of the Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing in addition to his role as President and Chief Executive Officer, which may impede his ability to devote adequate attention to any of these roles. We may not be able to compete favorably in the competitive ccm industry. The market for our CCM solutions is intensely competitive. We face competition from a broad range of competitors. The competition may have lower cost structures or have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with such entities. Social, political and economic risks could adversely affect our business. Acts of terrorism have caused major instability in the United States and other financial markets. Armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism would cause further instability in financial markets and could directly impact our financial condition and the results of our operations. Our business is subject to general economic conditions and fluctuation in corporate spending. Any adverse effect on the economy, depending on the magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of changes in social, political and economic conditions on our business or financial condition. 12 We are dependent on meeting the challenges of technological advances in the CCM solutions industry. The CCM solutions industry has experienced and will continue to experience rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Development in both software technology and hardware capability will require us to make substantial investments in the development of our solutions. Any failure to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in the development or introduction of our solutions, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There can be no assurance that our new solutions or enhancements, which are intended to respond to technological change or evolving customer requirements, will achieve acceptance. We may face difficulties in expanding our operations in international markets. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources and will place additional burdens on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We have not been able to generate consistent earnings in our EMEA operations and have only limited experience in establishing and managing international operations. We cannot be certain that our operations in countries outside of North America will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. International expansion may negatively affect our operating results because of numerous factors, including difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; potential losses from foreign currency fluctuations; seasonal reductions in business activity in Europe; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens; potential adverse tax consequences; compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and potential language-specific requirements for software. Future business acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations. We may make acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions may be difficult to integrate into our business and could consume significant management and financial resources. There is no assurance that any acquisition will be successful or generate a satisfactory return on investment. Our solutions are subject to the risk of software defects. Complex software solutions such as ours can contain undetected errors or performance problems. Such defects are most frequently found during the period immediately following introduction of new solutions or enhancements to existing solutions. Our solutions have from time to time contained software errors that were discovered after commercial introduction. There can be no assurance that performance problems or errors will not be discovered in our solutions in the future. Any future software defects discovered after shipment of our solutions, if material, could result in loss of revenues, customer dissatisfaction and/or potential product liability. Our failure to meet customer expectations could result in losses and negative publicity. The implementation of our products, which we primarily accomplish through our professional services organization, typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communication systems. If our implementation fails to meet our customers’ expectations or anticipated milestones in a timely manner, we could experience the following: delayed or lost revenues and market share due to customer dissatisfaction; risk the loss of an existing customer; negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could affect our ability to attract new customers; expenses associated with providing additional products and customer support and other resources to a customer at a reduced charge; claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for any failures; increased insurance 13 costs and diversion of development and management time and resources; and potential customer collection issues. Provisions within our customer agreements that limit our exposure may not protect us from additional liability. Our agreements with customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims, such as disclaimers of warranties and limitations on liability for special, consequential, incidental and other indirect damages. In addition, our agreements usually cap the amounts recoverable for direct damages to the amounts paid to us. However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from additional liability. Furthermore, our general liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our solutions or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that our efforts will provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technology against others who independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent techniques or gain access to, misappropriate or disclose our proprietary technology. Available Information We electronically file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of our filings with the SEC may be obtained from our website at HTTP://WWW.DOCUCORP.COM or at the SEC’s website at HTTP://WWW.SEC.GOV. Access to these filings is free of charge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 