ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The sale of our instrumentation and assay products typically involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital by us, our partners and the end user. Accordingly, the sales cycle associated with our products typically is lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks, much of which is beyond our control, including partners’ budgetary constraints, inventory management practices, regulatory approval and internal acceptance reviews. As a result of this lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. The vast majority of our system sales are made to our strategic partners. Our partners typically purchase instruments in three phases during their commercialization cycle: first, instruments necessary to support internal assay development; second, instruments for sales force demonstrations; and finally, instruments for resale to their customers. As a result, most of our system placements are highly dependent on the continued commercial success of our strategic partners and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter as our strategic partners move from phase to phase. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. Our assay products are sometimes sold to large customers. The ordering and consumption patterns of these customers can fluctuate, affecting the timing of shipments and revenue recognition. In addition, certain products assist in the diagnosis of illnesses that are seasonal, and customer orders can fluctuate for this reason. Because of the effect of bulk purchases, defined as the purchase of $100,000 or more of consumables in a quarter, and the introduction of seasonal components to our assay menus, we experience fluctuations in the percentage of our quarterly revenues derived from our highest margin items: consumables, royalties and assays. Our gross margin percentage is highly dependent upon the mix of revenue components each quarter. These fluctuations contribute to the variability and lack of predictability of both gross margin percentage and total gross profit from quarter to quarter. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. Due to the early stage of the market for molecular tests, projected growth scenarios for the ARP segment are highly volatile and are based on a number of underlying assumptions that may or may not prove to be valid, including the performance of strategic partners that distribute our ARP segment products. We have a limited history of profitability and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $47.3 million as of December 31, 2011. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $47.3 million. In order to remain profitable, we need to sustain or increase our revenues while achieving reasonable cost and expense levels. We believe that we have achieved a level of consistent profitability from our continuing operations; however, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to achieve operating results in line with market expectations, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Furthermore, as we continue to utilize cash to support operations, acquisitions and research and development efforts, we may further decrease the cash available to us. As of December 31, 2011, cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments totaled $107.0 million, compared to $123.9 million at December 31, 2010. The decrease since December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to positive operating cash flows offset by capital expenditures, share repurchases and strategic acquisitions and investments. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends significantly on the establishment and maintenance of successful relationships with our strategic partners. Currently, a limited number of strategic partners account for a majority of our revenue and the loss of any one of these partners or their inability to perform to expectations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The development and commercialization of our xMAP technology is highly dependent on our ability to establish successful strategic relationships with a number of partners. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, we had 43 strategic partners submitting royalties as compared to 43 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. Three customers, One Lambda, Inc., LabCorp and Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., accounted for 43% of consolidated total revenue in the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 (23%, 10% and 10%, respectively). For comparative purposes, these same three customers accounted for 36% of total revenue (16%, 8% and 13%, respectively) in the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 28% of total revenue in 2009 (15%, less than 10% and 11%, respectively). No other customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. We had only two additional partners who individually represented 5% or more of our total revenue and collectively represented 15% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. In total, for the year ended December 31, 2011, our top five partners accounted for 58% of our total revenue. In total, for the year ended December 31, 2010, our top five partners accounted for 50% of our total revenue. The loss of any of our significant strategic partners, or any of our significant customers, could have a material adverse effect on our growth and future results of operations. The ARP segment is dependent on a few significant customers with respect to sales of its genetic test kits. If any significant customer discontinues its relationship with the ARP segment for any reason, or reduces or postpones current or expected purchase commitments for the ARP segment’s products, the ARP segment’s results from operations could be materially adversely affected. Delays in implementation, delays in obtaining regulatory approval, changes in strategy or the financial difficulty of our strategic partners for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to enter into agreements with additional strategic partners depends in part on convincing them that our technology can help achieve and accelerate their goals or efforts. We will expend substantial funds and management efforts with no assurance that any additional strategic relationships will result. We cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate additional strategic agreements in the future on acceptable terms, if at all, or that current or future strategic partners will not pursue or develop alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others. Some of the companies we are targeting as strategic partners offer products competitive with our xMAP technology, which may hinder or prevent strategic relationships. Termination of strategic relationships, the failure to enter into a sufficient number of additional strategic relationships on favorable terms, or disputes with our partners could reduce sales of our products, lower margins on our products and limit the creation of market demand for and acceptance of our products. In most of our strategic relationships we have granted our strategic partners non-exclusive rights with respect to commercialization of our products and technology. The lack of exclusivity could deter existing strategic partners from commercializing xMAP technology and may deter new strategic partners from entering into agreements with us. A significant portion of our future revenues will come from sales of our systems and the development and sale of bioassay kits utilizing our technology by our strategic partners and from use of our technology by our strategic partners in performing services offered to third parties. We believe that our strategic partners will have economic incentives to develop and market these products, but we cannot accurately predict future sales and royalty revenues because most of our existing strategic partner agreements do not include minimum purchase requirements or minimum royalty commitments. In addition, we have no control with respect to our strategic partners’ sales personnel and how they prioritize products based on xMAP technology nor can we control the timing of the development or release of products by our strategic partners. The amount of these revenues depends on a variety of factors that are outside our control, including the amount and timing of resources that current and future strategic partners devote to develop and market products incorporating our technology. Furthermore, the development and marketing of certain bioassay kits will require our strategic partners to obtain governmental approvals, which could delay or prevent their commercialization efforts. If our current or future strategic partners do not successfully develop and market products based on our technology and obtain necessary government approvals, our revenues from product sales and royalties will be significantly reduced. 21 Table of Contents Unfavorable economic conditions and the uncertain economic outlook may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. The credit markets and the financial services industry recently experienced turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These conditions not only limit our access to capital but also make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses and consumers to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Some of our customers rely on government research grants to fund technology purchases. If negative trends in the economy affect the government’s allocation of funds to research, there may be less grant funding available for certain of our customers to purchase technologies like those Luminex sells. Certain of our partners and their and our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit or may otherwise be faced with budget constraints, which could result in decreased purchases of, or development of products based on, our products or in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If our partners and our customers do not make timely payments to us, we may be required to assume greater credit risk relating to those customers, increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we may not continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. Additionally, these economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers causing them to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, thereby impairing our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. If the FDA or other governmental laws and regulations change in ways that we do not anticipate and we fail to comply with those regulations that affect our business, we could be subject to enforcement actions, injunctions and civil and criminal penalties or otherwise be subject to increased costs that could delay or prevent marketing of our products. The production, testing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products for some purposes and products based on our technology are subject to governmental regulation by the FDA and by similar agencies in other countries. Some of our products and products based on our technology for in vitro diagnostic purposes are subject to clearance by the FDA prior to marketing for commercial use. To date, eight strategic partners have obtained such clearances. Others are anticipated. The process of obtaining necessary FDA clearances can be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. Further, clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed. In addition, because some of our products employ laser technology, we are also required to comply with FDA requirements relating to radiation performance safety standards. Periodically the FDA issues guidance documents that represent the FDA’s current thinking on a topic. These issues are initially issued in draft form prior to final rule generally with enforcement discretion for some grace period of time. Changes made through this process may impact the release status of products offered and our ability to market those products affected by the change. For example, the FDA released on September 14, 2007 the final document “Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff Commercially Distributed Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs): Frequently Asked Questions.” This guidance may limit or delay distribution of assays on our platform, including assays developed and distributed by our ARP segment, to the extent additional regulatory clearance is required prior to distribution. Cleared medical device products are subject to continuing FDA requirements relating to, among others, manufacturing quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records and documentation, registration and listing, import/export, adverse event and other reporting, distribution, labeling and promotion and advertising of medical devices. Our inability or the inability of our strategic partners to obtain required regulatory approval or clearance on a timely or acceptable basis could harm our business. In addition, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us or our strategic partners to regulatory enforcement action, including warning letters, product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances, restrictions on or injunctions against marketing our products or products based on our technology, and civil and criminal penalties. 22 Table of Contents Medical device laws and regulations are in effect within the United States and also in many countries outside the United States. These range from comprehensive device clearance requirements for some or all of our medical device products to requests for product data or certifications regarding the hazardous material content of our products. As part of the European Council Directive 2002/96 of February 13, 2003 (WEEE), we are expected to comply with certain requirements regarding the collection, recycling and labeling of our products containing electronic devices in each of the European Union, or EU, member states where our regulated products are distributed. While we are taking steps to comply with the requirements of WEEE, we cannot be certain that we will comply with the national stage implementation of WEEE in all member states. Our products are currently exempt from the European Council Directive 2002/95 of January 27, 2003, Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS), which required the removal of certain specified hazardous substances from certain products beginning July 1, 2006 in each of the member states. However, the EU has indicated that it may, and it is generally expected it will, include medical devices, including some of our products, under the jurisdiction of RoHS. If this exemption is revoked, it could result in increased costs to us and we cannot assure you we will ultimately be able to comply with RoHS or related requirements in other jurisdictions. In addition, the State of California adopted the Electronic Waste Recycling Act, effective January 1, 2007, which requires the California Department of Toxic Substances Control to adopt regulations to prohibit the sale of electronic devices in California if they are also prohibited from sale in the EU under the RoHS directive because they contain certain heavy metals. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing and we will likely become subject to further similar laws in other jurisdictions. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign medical device laws and regulations may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to a variety of other laws and regulations relating to, among other things, environmental protection and workplace health and safety. Our strategic partners and customers expect our organization to operate on an established quality management system compliant with FDA Quality System Regulations and industry standards, the In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79/EC of 27 October 1998 (Directive) as implemented nationally in the EU member states and industry standards, such as ISO 9000. We became ISO 9001:2000 certified in March 2002 and self-declared our Luminex 100, Luminex 200, FLEXMAP 3D and MAGPIX instruments to the Directive. Our devices are in conformity with Article 1, Article 9, Annex I (Essential Requirements), and Annex III, and the additional provisions of the Directive as of December 7, 2003. Subsequent audits are carried out annually to ensure we maintain our system in substantial compliance with ISO and other applicable regulations and industry standards. We became ISO 13485:2003 and Canadian Medical Device Conformity Assessment System (CMDCAS) certified in July 2005. Failure to maintain compliance with FDA, CMDCAS and EU regulations and other medical device laws, or to obtain applicable registrations where required, could reduce our competitive advantage in the markets in which we compete and also decrease satisfaction and confidence levels with our partners. If our technology and products do not become widely used in the life sciences and clinical diagnostics industries, it is unlikely that we can maintain or increase profitability. Life sciences companies have historically conducted biological tests using a variety of technologies, including bead-based analysis. In certain testing areas, our xMAP technology is relatively new and unproven, and the use of our technology by life sciences companies is limited. The commercial success of our technology depends upon its widespread adoption as a method to perform bioassays. In order to be successful, we must convince potential partners to utilize our system instead of competing technologies. Market acceptance depends on many factors, including our ability to: · convince prospective strategic partners and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies for pharmaceutical, research, clinical, biomedical and genetic testing and analysis; · encourage these partners to develop and market products using our technology; · manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and at an acceptable cost; · obtain and maintain sufficient pricing and royalties from partners on such Luminex products; and · place and service sufficient quantities of our products, including the ability to provide the level of service required in the mainstream clinical diagnostics market segment. 23 Table of Contents Because of these and other factors, our products may not gain or sustain sufficient market acceptance to again achieve, maintain or increase profitability. Additionally, we may have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or if the demand for our products changes. Our reliance on strategic relationships to market many of our products makes forecasting difficult. As a result of our reliance on our strategic relationships, it can be difficult to accurately forecast future operating results. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends, and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term. The level of our revenues depends upon the rate and timing of the adoption of our technology as a method to perform bioassays. In addition, we currently anticipate that the vast majority of future sales of our products and products incorporating our technology will be made through our strategic relationships. For the following reasons, estimating the timing and amount of sales of these products that may be made through our strategic relationships is particularly difficult: · We have no control over the timing or extent of product development, marketing or sale of our products by our strategic partners. · We do not control the incentives provided by our strategic partners and distributors to their sales personnel. · We utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, including several of our key assay products and the loss of or non-performance by these distributors could harm our revenues in the territories serviced by these distributors. · A significant number of our strategic partners intend to produce clinical diagnostic applications that may need to be approved by the FDA, or other regulatory bodies in jurisdictions outside of the United States. · Certain strategic partners may have unique requirements for their applications and systems. Assisting the various strategic partners may strain our research and development and manufacturing resources. To the extent that we are not able to timely assist our strategic partners, the commercialization of their products will likely be delayed. · Certain strategic partners may fail to deliver products that satisfy market requirements, or such products may fail to perform properly. · We have limited access to partner and distributor confidential corporate information. A sudden unexpected change in ownership, strategy or other material event could adversely impact partner purchases of our products. · Partners tend to order in bulk prior to the production of new lots of their products and prior to major product development initiatives. The frequency of these bulk purchases is difficult to predict and may cause large fluctuations in microsphere sales quarter to quarter. The life sciences industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may not have the resources necessary to compete successfully. We compete with companies in the United States and abroad that are engaged in the development and production of similar products. We will continue to face intense competition from existing competitors and other companies seeking to develop new technologies. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, scientific, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service and other resources than we do. These companies may develop technologies that are superior alternatives to our technologies or may be more effective at commercializing their technologies in products. The life sciences industry is characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We may need to develop new technologies for our products to remain competitive. One or more of our current or future competitors could render our present or future products or those of our partners obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances. In addition, the introduction or announcement of new products by us or others could result in a delay of or decrease in sales of existing products, as we await regulatory approvals, while customers evaluate these new products, or if customers choose to purchase the new products instead of legacy products. We may also encounter other problems in the process of delivering new products to the marketplace such as problems related to design, development, supply chain or manufacturing of such products, and as a result we may be unsuccessful in selling such products. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively against current technologies, as well as to respond effectively to technological advances by developing and marketing products that are competitive in the continually changing technological landscape. 24 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to service and support our products directly or in collaboration with our strategic partners. To the extent that we or our strategic partners fail to maintain a high quality level of service and support for xMAP technology products, there is a risk that the perceived quality of our xMAP technology products will be diminished in the marketplace. Likewise, we may fail to provide the level, quantity or quality of service expected by the marketplace. This could result in slower adoption rates and lower than anticipated utilization of xMAP products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The property rights we rely upon to protect the technology underlying our products may not be adequate to maintain market exclusivity. Inadequate intellectual property protection could enable third parties to exploit our technology or use very similar technology and could reduce our ability to distinguish our products in the market. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and products and to protect our trade secrets, including the intellectual property of entities we may acquire. Any patents we own may not afford full protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. Competitors may develop products that are not covered by our patents. Furthermore, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and certain patent offices in foreign jurisdictions, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. We have obtained 178 patents in the United States and foreign jurisdictions directed to various aspects and applications of our products and technology. We have 209 pending applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. In Japan, due to a procedural omission, we are unable to obtain patent protection for our method of “real time” detection and quantification of multiple analytes from a single sample on our platform technology similar to the protection we have obtained in the United States. Although we are pursuing patent protection in Japan for other aspects of our technology and products, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing and marketing technologies and products similar to our xMAP technology in Japan. We also have patents covering key aspects of xTAG technology utilized in our assay products. We require our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other third parties to execute confidentiality agreements. Our employees and third-party consultants also sign agreements requiring that they assign to us their interests in inventions and original expressions and any corresponding patents and copyrights arising from their work for us. In addition, we have implemented a patent process to file patent applications on our key technology. However, we cannot guarantee that these agreements or this patent process will provide us with adequate protection against improper use of our intellectual property or disclosure of confidential information. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technology, techniques and products or counterfeit versions of our products or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. These legal proceedings could be expensive, take significant time and/or divert management’s attention from other business concerns. These proceedings may cause us to lose the benefit of some of our intellectual property rights, the loss of which may inhibit or preclude our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market. These proceedings also may provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. The patent position of companies like ours generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under patents like ours. 25 Table of Contents Our success depends partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We have been (and from time to time we may be) notified that third parties consider their patents or other intellectual property relevant to our products. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, including claims with respect to intellectual property of entities we may acquire. In addition, we may find it necessary, if threatened, to initiate a lawsuit seeking a declaration from a court that we do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others or that their rights are invalid or unenforceable. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could affect our profitability. Furthermore, litigation is time-consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we may have to pay damages and could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require collaboration with other organizations in obtaining relevant biomarkers, access to oligonucleotides and enzymes that are patented or controlled by others. If we cannot continue to obtain access to these areas or identify freedom to operate opportunities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our acquisition strategy. We may face difficulties integrating acquired entities with our existing businesses. Acquisitions of assets or entities designed to accelerate the implementation of our strategic plan are an important element of our long-term strategy. We may be unable to identify and complete appropriate future acquisitions in a timely manner, or at all, and no assurance can be provided that the market price of potential business acquisitions will be acceptable. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have and may be willing to pay more for these businesses or selected assets. In the future, should we identify suitable acquisition targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or obtain the financing, if necessary, for these acquisitions on terms favorable to us. Generally, potential acquisitions pose a number of risks, including, among others, that: · we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions on our business; · future acquisitions may require us to incur debt or assume liabilities, incur large and immediate write-offs, issue capital stock potentially dilutive to our stockholders or spend significant cash, or may result in a decrease in our future operating income or operating margins; · technological advancement or worse than expected performance of acquired businesses may result in the impairment of intangible assets; · we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from acquisitions as a result of inherent risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired businesses or retaining their key personnel, partners, customers or other key relationships, entering market segments in which we have no or limited experience, and risks that acquired entities may not operate profitably or that acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance; · acquisitions and subsequent integration of these companies may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities; and · the costs of unsuccessful acquisition efforts may adversely affect our financial performance. Other risks of integration include: · disparate information technology, internal control, financial reporting and record-keeping systems; · differences in accounting policies, including those requiring judgment or complex estimation processes; · new partners or customers who may operate on terms and programs different than ours; · additional employees not familiar with our operations; 26 Table of Contents · facilities or operations in remote locations or potentially foreign jurisdictions and the inherent risks of operating in unfamiliar legal and regulatory environments; and · new products, including the risk that any underlying intellectual property associated with such products may not have been adequately protected or that such products may infringe on the proprietary rights of others. As we continue to expand our business, we may experience problems in scaling our manufacturing operations, or delays or component shortages that could limit the growth of our revenue. As we continue to expand our manufacturing capabilities in order to meet our growth objectives, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of products or maintain consistency between differing lots of consumables. If we encounter difficulties in scaling our manufacturing operations as a result of, among other things, quality control and quality assurance issues and availability of components and raw material supplies, we will likely experience reduced sales of our products, increased repair or re-engineering costs due to product returns, and defects and increased expenses due to switching to alternate suppliers, any of which would reduce our revenues and gross margins. We presently outsource certain aspects of the assembly of our systems to contract manufacturers. Because of a long lead-time to delivery, we are required to place orders for a variety of items well in advance of scheduled production runs. We recently increased our flexibility to purchase strategic components within shorter lead times by entering into supply agreements with the suppliers of these components. Although we attempt to match our parts inventory and production capabilities to estimates of marketplace demand, to the extent system orders materially vary from our estimates, we may experience continued constraints in our systems production and delivery capacity, which could adversely impact revenue in a given fiscal period. Should our need for raw materials and components used in production continue to fluctuate, we could incur additional costs associated with either expediting or postponing delivery of those materials. In an effort to control costs, during the last quarter of 2005 we implemented a lean production system. Managing the change from discrete to continuous flow production requires time and management commitment. Lean initiatives and limitations in our supply chain capabilities may result in part shortages that delay shipments and cause fluctuations in revenue in a given period. We currently purchase certain key components of our product line from a limited number of outside sources and, in the case of some components, a single source, and these components may only be available through a limited number of providers. We do not have agreements with all of our suppliers. While we currently believe that we will be able to satisfy our forecasted demand for our products, the failure to find alternative suppliers in the event of any type of supply failure at any of our current vendors at reasonably comparable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we have entered into supply agreements with most of our suppliers of strategic reagents and component subassemblies to help ensure component availability, and flexible purchasing terms with respect to the purchase of such components. If our suppliers discontinue production of a key component, we will be required to revalidate and may be required to resubmit a previously cleared product. Our reliance on our suppliers and contract manufacturers exposes us to risks including: · the possibility that one or more of our suppliers or our assemblers that do not have supply agreements with us could terminate their services at any time without penalty; · natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, and floods that impact our suppliers; · the potential obsolescence and/or inability of our suppliers to obtain required components; · the potential delays and expenses of seeking alternate sources of supply or manufacturing services; · the inability to qualify alternate sources without impacting performance claims of our products; · reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery due to the difficulties in switching to alternate suppliers or assemblers; and · increases in prices of raw materials and key components. Consequently, in the event that supplies of components or work performed by any of our assemblers are delayed or interrupted for any reason, our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired. 27 Table of Contents If the quality of our products does not meet our customers’ expectations, then our reputation could suffer and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Because our instruments and consumables are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may increase as we continue to introduce new products and services and as we rapidly scale up manufacturing to meet increased demand for our products and services. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. In addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and we may incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other service obligations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We expect that revenue from U.S sales will continue to represent the majority of our total revenue, but our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to grow and ultimately maintain our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Europe. In fiscal 2011, approximately 17% of our revenue was derived from sales to non-U.S. customers, with approximately 9% of revenue from sales to customers in Europe. As such, a significant slowdown in these foreign economies or lower investments in new infrastructure could have a negative impact on our sales. We also purchase a portion of the materials included in our products from overseas sources. As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, we have operations and manufacturing facilities in foreign countries that expose us to certain risks. For example, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities as reflected in our financial statements. We are also subject to other types of risks, including the following: · changes in or interpretations of foreign law that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; · tariffs, customs and other barriers to importing/exporting materials and products in a cost effective and timely manner; · hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries; · imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; · conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory requirements; · difficulties in accounts receivable collections; · the imposition of restrictive trade policies, including export restrictions; · worldwide political conditions; · the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; · reduced protection of intellectual property rights and trade secrets in some foreign countries; · the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions by foreign governments; · the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute; · uncertainties relating to foreign laws, including labor laws, and legal proceedings; 28 Table of Contents · the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties; · significant currency fluctuations; · the burden of complying with and changes in international taxation policies; · having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and · having to comply with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates, partners and customers. Our international sales and purchases are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, tariffs, trade barriers, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be liable for administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, and in the extreme case, we could be suspended or debarred from government contracts or have our export privileges suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. International sales and purchases are also subject to a variety of other risks, including risks arising from currency fluctuations, collection issues and taxes. Our international sales are subject to variability as our selling prices become less competitive in countries with currencies that are declining in value against the U.S. Dollar and more competitive in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. Dollar. In addition, our international purchases can become more expensive if the U.S. Dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we are billed. We have not entered into any foreign currency derivative financial instruments; however, we may choose to do so in the future in an effort to manage or hedge our foreign exchange rate risk. The capital spending policies of our customers have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Our customers include clinical diagnostic, pharmaceutical, biotechnological, chemical and industrial companies, and the capital spending policies of these companies can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including general or local economic conditions, governmental regulation or price controls, the resources available for purchasing research equipment, the spending priorities among various types of analytical equipment and the policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. Any decrease in capital spending by life sciences companies could cause our revenues to decline. As a result, we are subject to significant volatility in revenue. Therefore, our operating results can be materially affected (negatively and positively) by the spending policies and priorities of our customers. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of biotechnological, human (including genetic) diagnostic and therapeutic products. Although we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks and we generally have limited indemnity protections in our supplier agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or claim that is outside or exceeds our indemnity protections in our supplier agreements or a recall of one of our products would have to be paid out of our cash reserves. 29 Table of Contents If third-party payors increasingly restrict payments for healthcare expenses or fail to adequately pay for multi-analyte testing, we may experience reduced sales which would hurt our business and our business prospects. Third-party payors, such as government entities and healthcare programs, health maintenance organizations and private insurers, are continually seeking to reduce healthcare expenses. The federal government has also recently reduced the funding for certain government-sponsored healthcare programs which has caused these third party payors to seek further reduction in medical expenses. The U.S. federal government passed comprehensive healthcare reform in the form of the Affordable Care Act in 2010 and is considering revisions to this Act. The Affordable Care Act could further limit government reimbursement to these payors. These reductions may decrease demand for our products and the price we can charge. Increasingly, Medicaid and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests. They are also attempting to contain costs by limiting coverage and the reimbursement level of tests and other healthcare products. In addition, cost containment initiatives by governmental or educational entities or programs may reduce funding for genetic research and development activities and retard the growth of the genetic testing market. Without adequate coverage and reimbursement, consumer demand for tests could decrease. Decreased demand could cause our strategic partners to reduce purchases or to cancel programs or development activities and could cause sales of our products, and sales and services by our strategic partners, to fall. In addition, decreased demand could place pressure on us, or our strategic partners, to lower prices on these products or services, resulting in lower margins. Reduced sales or margins by us, or our strategic partners, would adversely affect our business, profitability and business prospects. Our success depends on our technology infrastructure We are also increasingly dependent on information technology to enable us to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, implement and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers, business disruptions or loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach or cyber attack. We rely on the innovation and resources of larger industry participants and public programs to advance genomic research and educate physicians/clinicians on genetic diagnostics. The linkages between genetic anomalies that our products detect and the underlying disease states are not always fully medically correlated. Additionally, the availability of correlated genetic markers is dependent on significant investment in genomic research, often funded through public programs for which there are no assurances of on-going support. Should any government limit patent rights to specific genetic materials, private investment in this area could also be significantly curtailed. In addition, the adoption of genetic diagnostics is dependent to a great extent on the education and training of physicians and clinicians. We do not have the resources to undertake such training, and are relying on larger industry participants and professional medical colleges to establish, communicate and educate physicians and clinicians on best practices related to genetic diagnostics. We are subject to evolving legislative, judicial and ethical standards on use of technology and biotechnology. The adoption of genetic testing is occurring within the broader context of a myriad of decisions related to genetic patenting and genotyping. Issues associated with health insurance, data access, intellectual property protection, national and international legislative initiatives and other variables may have a significant impact on the wide spread adoption of genetic testing or on specific segments or tests within the genetic testing market. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain our management and staff. We depend on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, including our chief executive officer, Patrick Balthrop, and our operations, marketing, research and development, technical support, technical service and sales staff. The loss of services of key members of management could delay or reduce our product development, marketing and sales and technical support efforts. In addition, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and other personnel to perform research and development, technical support, technical service and marketing and sales work will be critical to our success. There is a shortage in our industry of qualified management and scientific personnel, and competition for these individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract additional and retain existing personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. 30 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. In addition, we take certain income tax positions on our tax returns that we recognize in our financial statements if it is more likely than not they will not withstand challenge by tax authorities. We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, including the United States, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. There are several proposals to reform U.S. tax rules being considered by U.S. law makers, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our unrepatriated earnings, potentially requiring those earnings to be taxed at the U.S. federal income tax rate, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. Our future reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax rule changes which restrict or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price. This volatility is in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results from historical results or estimates of results prepared by securities analysts; · announcements of acquisitions or of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · conditions or trends in the life science, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; · additions or departures of key personnel; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · general economic conditions and interest rates; · instability in the United States and other financial markets and the ongoing and possible escalation of unrest in the Middle East, other armed hostilities or further acts or threats of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; · sales of our common stock; and · the potential adverse impact of the secondary trading of our stock on foreign exchanges which are subject to less regulatory oversight than the NASDAQ Global Select Market, without our permission, and the activity of the market makers of our stock on such exchanges, including the risk that such market makers may engage in naked short sales and/or other deceptive trading practices which may artificially depress or otherwise affect the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. 31 Table of Contents We may in the future incur substantial debt that could restrict our operations. We may incur indebtedness in the future for, among other purposes, funding operating expenses and/or costs related to future expansions and acquisitions. This indebtedness could have adverse consequences on us, including: · limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and · exposing us to interest rate risk. To the extent incurred, our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures. Our ability to repay or refinance our debt depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, as further described in this Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 