ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have entered into a definitive merger agreement with SL Resort Holdings Inc. Effective February 3, 2011, we entered into an "Agreement and Plan of Merger" with Resort Holdings and Merger Sub pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into Silverleaf, with Silverleaf continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Resort Holdings. If the merger is completed, the holders of common stock will receive $2.50 in cash, without interest and less applicable withholding tax, for each share of common stock that they own immediately prior to the effective time of the merger, unless they timely exercise and perfect their respective dissenters' rights under the Texas Business Organizations Code. The transaction has been approved by our Board of Directors, and the Board will be recommending that our shareholders approve the transaction. We intend to hold a special meeting of our shareholders for the purpose of approving the merger as promptly as possible. The closing of the transaction is subject to certain terms and conditions customary for transactions of this type, including receipt of shareholder and regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that the merger will occur, or will occur on the timetable contemplated as a result of a variety of factors, including the failure to obtain shareholder or any required regulatory approval, litigation relating to the merger, or the failure of one or more of the closing conditions set forth in the merger agreement. The execution of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and the Company's obligation thereunder, present a number of potential risks. If the merger agreement is not adopted by our shareholders, or if the merger is not completed for any other reason our shareholders will not receive any payment for their shares pursuant to the merger agreement. Instead, upon the termination of the merger agreement, we will remain as a public company and our common stock will continue to be registered under the Exchange Act and listed and traded on NASDAQ, although the price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the merger will be consummated. Under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay Resort Holdings a termination fee of up to $4.4 million and/or certain of Resort Holdings' expenses. In addition, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses, and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the merger, and many of these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether or not the merger is consummated. Among those costs are the expenses of defending the litigation that has been filed against Silverleaf in connection with the execution of the merger agreement. The announcement and pendency of the merger could cause disruptions in our business. For example, uncertainty concerning potential changes to us and our business could adversely affect our relationships with current or prospective Silverleaf Owners. In addition, key personnel may depart for a variety of reasons, including perceived uncertainty as to the effect of the merger on their employment. The pendency of the merger could also divert the time and attention of our management from our ongoing business operations. These disruptions may increase over time until the closing of the merger. Also, pending the closing of the merger, the merger agreement restricts us from engaging in certain actions without Resort Holdings' consent, which could prevent us from pursuing opportunities that may arise prior to the closing of the merger. If our assumptions and estimates in our business model are not accurate, our future results could be negatively impacted. The financial covenants in our credit facilities are based upon a business model prepared by our management. We used a number of assumptions and estimates in preparing the business model, including: • We estimated that we will sell our existing and planned inventory of Vacation Intervals within 15 years;• We assumed that we can meet our sales and operating profit projections;• We assumed the availability of credit facilities necessary to sustain our operations and anticipated growth; and• We assumed that we can raise the prices on our products and services to offset costs of production as market conditions allow. These assumptions and estimates are subject to significant business, economic, and competitive risks and uncertainties. If our assumptions and estimates are wrong, our future results of operations and financial position may vary significantly from those projected in the business model. Our independent registered public accounting firm has not reviewed or expressed an opinion about our business model or our ability to achieve it. 23Table of ContentsChanges in the timeshare industry could affect our operations. We operate principally within the timeshare industry. Our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected by any of the following events: • An oversupply of timeshare units;• A reduction in demand for timeshare units;• Changes in travel and vacation patterns;• A decrease in popularity of our resorts with our consumers;• Governmental regulations or taxation of the timeshare industry; and• Negative publicity about the timeshare industry. We may be vulnerable to the current conditions in the credit markets which could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than three years. As a consequence of the recession that began in 2007, business activity across a wide range of industries in the United States faces serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. Because we use various mass marketing techniques, a certain percentage of our sales are generated from customers who may be considered to have marginal credit quality. During 2010 and 2009, approximately 16.6% and 13.7%, respectively, of our sales were made to customers with FICO® scores below 600. In addition, we have experienced an increase in defaults in our loan portfolio as compared to historical rates. Due to current economic conditions, there can be no assurance that defaults have stabilized or that they will not increase further. These and other recent adverse changes in the credit markets and related uncertain economic conditions may eliminate or reduce the availability or increase the cost of significant sources of funding for us in the future. Specifically, if default rates for our borrowers were to continue to rise, it may require an increase in our estimated uncollectible revenue, and it could result in a default of the maximum loan delinquency covenant discussed above. We will continue to evaluate our collections process and marketing programs with a view toward establishing procedures aimed at reducing note defaults and improving the credit quality of our customers. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We may be impacted by general economic conditions. We anticipate a continuation of the difficult economic environment we have experienced over the last several years. These economic weaknesses present formidable challenges related to constrained consumer spending, collection of customer receivables, access to capital markets, and ability to manage inventory levels. Our customers may be more vulnerable to deteriorating economic conditions than consumers in the luxury or upscale timeshare markets. Additionally, significant increases in the cost of transportation may limit the number of potential customers who travel to our resorts for a sales presentation. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could also cause an increase in the number of our customers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or default on their loans. This could result in further increases in our provision for estimated uncollectible revenue in 2011.We implemented what we believe to have been conservative business decisions and cash flow management during 2010, which we believe will permit us to maintain adequate liquidity through 2011. However, there can be no assurance that economic conditions will not deteriorate further or that customer loan delinquencies and defaults could increase further. Increases in loan delinquencies and defaults could impair our ability to pledge or sell such loans to lenders in order to obtain sufficient cash advances to meet our obligations through 2011. We may have more funds on deposit at banks than is covered by FDIC insurance limits. At December 31, 2010, we had substantial sums of cash on deposit with various banks. If a bank becomes insolvent and is taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we may lose cash in excess of the current insurable limits for our accounts. A loss of a significant portion of our cash would have a material impact on our ability to operate. 24Table of ContentsWe are at risk for defaults by our customers. We are exposed to credit risk related to our notes receivable. We offer financing to the buyers of Vacation Intervals at our resorts. Notes receivable from timeshare buyers constitute one of our principal assets. These buyers make down payments of at least 10% of the purchase price and deliver a promissory note to us for the balance. The promissory notes generally bear interest at a fixed rate, are payable over a seven to ten year period, and are secured by a deed of trust on the Vacation Interval. We bear the risk of defaults on these promissory notes. Although we prescreen prospects via credit scoring in the early stages of the marketing and sales process, we generally do not perform a detailed credit history review of our customers, as is the case with most other timeshare developers. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded 28.3% and 33.3% of the purchase price of Vacation Intervals as estimated uncollectible revenue, which resulted in decreases in our sales revenue of $58.5 million and $80.3 million, respectively. If a buyer of a Vacation Interval defaults, we generally must foreclose on the Vacation Interval and attempt to resell it; the associated marketing, selling, and administrative costs from the original sale are not recovered; and such costs must be incurred again to resell the Vacation Interval. Although in many cases we may have recourse against a Vacation Interval buyer for the unpaid note balance, certain states have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans. For example, if we were to file a lawsuit to collect the balance owed to us by a customer in Texas (where approximately 55% of Vacation Interval sales occurred in 2010), the customer could file a court proceeding to determine the fair market value of the property foreclosed upon. In such event, we would only recover the amount that the indebtedness owed to us exceeds the property’s fair market value rather than the full amount owed. Accordingly, we have generally not pursued this remedy. At December 31, 2010, we had Vacation Interval customer notes receivable in the approximate principal amount of $452.9 million, and had an allowance for uncollectible notes of $91.7 million. Due to the current economic conditions and the deterioration of the sub-prime mortgage markets in recent years, the risk of Vacation Interval defaults has heightened. We cannot be certain that this allowance is adequate. We must borrow funds to finance our operations. Our business is dependent on our ability to finance customer notes receivable through our lenders. At December 31, 2010, we either directly or through our fully consolidated finance subsidiaries owed $401.0 million of principal to our senior lenders. Borrowing Base. We have receivables-based loan agreements with senior lenders to borrow up to $566.0 million. We have pledged our customer promissory notes as security under these agreements. Our senior lenders typically lend us 75% to 80% of the principal amount of such customers' notes. Collections from Silverleaf Owners on such notes are credited directly to our senior lenders and applied against our loans receivable balances. At December 31, 2010, we had a portfolio of approximately 52,262 Vacation Interval customer notes receivable in the approximate principal amount of $452.9 million. Approximately $6.8 million in principal amount of our customer notes were 61 days or more past due and, therefore, ineligible as collateral. The amount of customer notes receivable eligible as collateral in the future may not be sufficient to support the borrowings we may require for our liquidity and continued growth. Negative Cash Flow. We ordinarily receive only 10% to 15% of the purchase price as a down payment on the sale of a Vacation Interval, but we must pay in full the cost of developing, marketing, and selling the interval. Maximum borrowings available under our credit facilities may not be sufficient to cover these costs, thereby straining our capital resources, liquidity, and capacity to grow. Interest Rate Mismatch. At December 31, 2010, our portfolio of customer loans receivable had a weighted average fixed interest rate of 16.7%. At such date, our borrowings against the portfolio had a weighted average cost of funds of 7.8%. We have historically derived net interest income from our financing activities because the interest rates we charge our customers who finance the purchase of their Vacation Intervals exceed the interest rates we pay to our senior lenders. As 27% of our senior indebtedness bears interest at variable rates and our customer notes receivable bear interest at fixed rates, increases in interest rates will erode the spread in interest rates that we have historically experienced and could cause our interest expense on borrowings to exceed our interest income on our portfolio of customer loans. Although interest rates have remained fairly constant the last two years, any increase in interest rates above applicable floor rates, particularly if sustained, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. To the extent interest rates decrease on alternative financing sources available to our customers, we face an increased risk that customers will pre-pay their loans, which would reduce our income from operating activities. 25Table of ContentsMaturity Mismatch. We typically provide financing to our customers over a seven-year to ten-year period. Our customer notes had a weighted average maturity of seven years at December 31, 2010. Our senior credit facilities have scheduled maturity dates between June 2011 and July 2022. Additionally, should our revolving credit facilities be declared in default, the amount outstanding could be immediately due and payable. Accordingly, there could be a mismatch between our anticipated cash receipts and cash disbursements in future periods. Although we have historically been able to secure financing sufficient to fund our operations, we do not presently have agreements with our senior lenders to extend the terms of our existing funding commitments beyond their scheduled maturity dates (aside from the amendment and extension of our $100 million SF-IV facility completed in the first quarter of 2011 and mentioned earlier in this report) or to replace such commitments upon their expiration. If we are unable to refinance our existing loans, we could be required to sell our portfolio of customer notes receivable, probably at a substantial discount, or to seek other alternatives to enable us to continue in business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain required financing in the future. Impact on Sales. Limitations on the availability of financing would inhibit sales of Vacation Intervals due to (i) the lack of funds to finance the initial negative cash flow that results from sales that we finance and (ii) reduced demand if we are unable to provide financing to purchasers of Vacation Intervals. We may not be able to obtain additional financing. Several unpredictable factors may cause our adjusted EBITDA to be insufficient to meet debt service requirements or satisfy financial covenants. Should we record net losses in future periods, our cash flow and our ability to obtain additional financing could be materially and adversely impacted. Many factors that determine whether or not we generate sufficient EBITDA to meet current or future debt service requirements and satisfy financial covenants are inherently difficult to predict. These factors include: • the number of sales of Vacation Intervals;• the average purchase price per interval;• the number of customer defaults;• our cost of borrowing; and• our sales and marketing costs and other operating expenses. Since our current and planned expenses and debt repayment levels are and will be to a large extent fixed in the short term, we consider historical results to project future revenues and cash flows. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any past or future revenue or cash flow shortfall. It is possible that our revenue, cash flow, or operating results may not meet the expectations of our business model, and may even result in our being unable to meet debt repayment schedules or financial covenants contained in our debt agreements. Our leverage is significant and may impair our ability to obtain additional financing, reduce the amount of cash available for operations, and make us more vulnerable to financial downturns. Our agreements with our various lenders may: • require a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used to pay interest expense and principal;• impair our ability to obtain on acceptable terms, if at all, additional financing that might be necessary for working capital, capital expenditures, or other purposes; and• limit our ability to further refinance or amend the terms of our existing debt obligations, if necessary or advisable. We may not be able to manage our financial leverage as we intend, and we may not be able to achieve an appropriate balance between the rate of growth which we consider acceptable and future reductions in financial leverage. If we are not able to achieve growth in adjusted EBITDA, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt obligations and we may be precluded from incurring additional indebtedness due to cash flow coverage requirements under existing or future debt instruments. One of our senior lenders, Textron Financial Corporation (“Textron”), and other timeshare industry lenders have announced that they will cease or modify their commercial lending activities in the future. While we have received no notice from any of our other lenders that our current financing arrangements will be impacted by these decisions, our ability to obtain financing in the future to replace these facilities may be limited by a lack of commercial lenders. At December 31, 2010, we had a total of $19.6 million outstanding under our senior credit facility with Textron, which comprises 4.7% of our total outstanding debt of $416.6 million. Our availability for future advances under our senior credit facilities was $227.5 million at December 31, 2010, of which $55.4 million, or 24.4%, was related to our Textron senior credit facility. While we do not currently anticipate a material impact 26Table of Contentsto our liquidity as a result of Textron’s announcement about its future as a timeshare lender, we will continue to monitor the effect of this announcement on our operations. In October 2010, we amended our $75 million consolidated receivables, inventory and acquisition revolving line of credit with Textron. The maximum aggregate commitment under the facility, which was $75 million at December 31, 2010, will be $60 million effective January 31, 2011, $50 million effective July 31, 2011, and $40 million effective January 31, 2012. The revolving period of the receivables component was extended one year from January 31, 2011 to January 31, 2012, provided that if the maximum amount outstanding exceeds the maximum aggregate commitment on any of the respective dates on which the maximum aggregate commitment is reduced, the revolving term shall end on that date. The maturity date will remain at January 31, 2013. The interest rate for the receivables component will remain at the prime rate with an increase in the floor interest rate from 6.00% to 6.25%. The terms of the inventory and acquisition components remained the same. Continued or increased volatility in the credit markets will likely impair our ability to securitize our assets. We periodically sell interests in our timeshare loans to our VIEs. Adverse conditions in the credit markets for loan-backed notes in general and the performance of the notes receivable will likely continue to impair the timing and volume of the timeshare loans that we sell. Although we expect to realize the economic value of our timeshare note portfolio even if future note sales are temporarily or indefinitely delayed, such delays in note sales could cause us to reduce spending in order to maintain our leverage and return targets. The financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the financial system may have a sustained negative impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face difficult challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Further, the economic situation could have a negative impact on our lenders or customers causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Our business is highly regulated. We are subject to substantial governmental regulation in the conduct of our business. See “Item 1. Business - Governmental Regulation, Environmental Matters, Utility Regulation, Other Regulation,” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If we are found to have violated any statute, rule, or regulation applicable to us, our assets, or our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. We are dependent on our key personnel. The loss of the services of key members of our management or our inability to hire, retain, or integrate new or replacement management and employees as needed could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position in future periods. We will incur costs at our resorts for additional development and construction activities. Although we have limited plans to further develop our Existing Resorts or to acquire or develop additional timeshare resorts in 2011, continued development of our resorts beyond 2011 will place substantial demands on our liquidity and capital resources, as well as on our personnel and administrative capabilities. Risks associated with our development and construction activities include: • construction costs or delays at a property may exceed original estimates which could make the development uneconomical or unprofitable;• sales of Vacation Intervals at a newly completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; and• financing may not be available on favorable terms for development of or the continued sales of Vacation Intervals at a property. We cannot be certain that we will have the liquidity and capital resources available to develop and expand our resorts. Our development and construction activities, as well as our ownership and management of real estate, are subject to comprehensive federal, state, and local laws regulating such matters as environmental and health concerns, protection of endangered species, water supplies, zoning, land development, land use, building design and construction, marketing and sales, and other matters. Our failure to maintain the requisite licenses, permits, allocations, authorizations, and other entitlements pursuant to such laws could 27Table of Contentsimpact the development, completion, and sale of Vacation Intervals at our resorts. The enactment of “slow growth” or “no-growth” initiatives or changes in labor or other laws in any area where our resorts are located could also delay, affect the cost or feasibility of, or preclude entirely the expansion planned at one or more of our resorts. Most of our resorts are located in rustic areas, which in the past have often required us to provide public utility water and sanitation services in order to proceed with development. This development is subject to permission and regulation by governmental agencies, the denial or conditioning of which could limit or preclude development. Failure by utilities providers to supply service to the resorts or to adequately maintain and expand as needed the water distribution and waste-water treatment utilities assets could impact our ability to provide the utilities necessary to operate or expand the resorts, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. We must incur costs to comply with laws governing accessibility of facilities to disabled persons. We are subject to a number of state and federal laws, including the Fair Housing Act and ADA, which impose requirements related to disabled persons access and use of a variety of public accommodations and facilities. Although ADA did not become effective until 1991, we believe our Existing Resorts are substantially in compliance and we will incur additional costs to fully comply if necessary. Additional federal, state, and local legislation may impose further restrictions or requirements on us with respect to access by disabled persons. The ultimate cost of compliance with such legislation is not currently known, however such costs are not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. We may be vulnerable to regional conditions. Our performance and the value of our properties are affected by regional factors, including local economic conditions (which may be adversely impacted by business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics, and other factors) and the local regulatory climate. Our current geographic concentration could make us more susceptible to adverse events or conditions that affect the particular areas in which we operate. At December 31, 2010, 57% of our owners lived in Texas, 13% lived in Illinois, 7% lived in Massachusetts, 4% lived in New York, and 3% lived in Missouri. Our remaining customer base lives primarily in other states within the United States of America. We may be liable for environmental claims. Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, as well as common law, the owner or operator of real property generally is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on, in, or emanating from such property, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease a property or to borrow money using such real property as collateral. Other federal and state laws require the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing material when such material is in poor condition or in the event of construction, demolition, remodeling, or renovation. Other statutes may require the removal of underground storage tanks. Noncompliance with these and other environmental, health, or safety requirements may result in the need to cease or alter operations at a property. Further, the owner or operator of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with the site. Phase I environmental reports (which typically involve inspection without soil sampling or ground water analysis) were prepared in 2001 or later by independent environmental consultants for all of the Existing Resorts. The reports did not reveal, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, or financial position. We cannot be certain that the Phase I reports revealed all environmental liabilities or that no prior owner created any material environmental condition not known to us. Certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. A transfer of the property may not relieve an owner of such liability. Thus, we may have liability with respect to properties previously sold by us or by our predecessors. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state, and local ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances. We have not been notified by any governmental authority or third party of any non-compliance, liability, or other claim in connection with any of our present or former properties. 28Table of ContentsOur sales could decline if our resorts do not qualify for participation in an exchange network. The attractiveness of Vacation Interval ownership is enhanced by the availability of exchange networks that allow Silverleaf Owners to exchange in a particular year the occupancy right in their Vacation Interval for an occupancy right in another participating network resort. According to ARDA, the ability to exchange Vacation Intervals was cited by many buyers as an important reason for purchasing a Vacation Interval. Several companies, including RCI and II, provide broad-based Vacation Interval exchange services. As of December 31, 2010, our Oak N' Spruce Resort in Massachusetts is under contract with the II exchange network. All of our other Existing Resorts are under contract with the RCI exchange network. We cannot be certain that the Existing Resorts or any future resorts will continue to qualify for participation in these networks or any other exchange network. If such exchange networks cease to function effectively, or if our resorts are not accepted as exchanges for other desirable resorts, our sales of Vacation Intervals could decline. We have no control over RCI or II, and any changes in their operation could have a material impact on our Vacation Interval Owners’ ability to exchange their week for one in the RCI or II networks. Our sales would be affected by a secondary market for Vacation Intervals. We believe the market for resale of Vacation Intervals is very limited and that resale prices are substantially below the original purchase price of a Vacation Interval. This may make ownership of Vacation Intervals less attractive to prospective buyers. Owners of Vacation Intervals who wish to sell their Vacation Interval compete with our sales efforts. Vacation Interval resale clearinghouses and brokers, including Internet-based clearinghouses, do not currently have a material impact on our sales. However, if the secondary market for Vacation Intervals becomes more organized and liquid, whether through Internet-based clearinghouses and brokers or other means, the availability of resale intervals at lower prices could materially and adversely affect our prices and our ability to sell new Vacation Intervals. Our sales are seasonal in nature. Our sales of Vacation Intervals have generally been lower in the months of November and December. Cash flow and earnings may be impacted by the timing of development, the completion of future resorts, and the potential impact of weather or other conditions in the regions where we operate. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by these factors. We are not insured for certain types of losses. While we believe that we maintain adequate levels of insurance for most casualties and losses, we do not insure certain types of losses (such as losses arising from floods in non-floodplain areas and acts of war) either because insurance is unavailable or unaffordable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could be required to repair damage at our expense or lose our capital invested in a damaged resort, as well as lose anticipated future revenues from such resort. However, we would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Hence, our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position could be adversely affected by such losses. We will continue to be leveraged. Our ability to finance customer notes receivable and develop our resorts is dependent upon borrowed funds, which would be collateralized by certain of our assets. In addition, our loan agreements contain financial covenants that must be complied with in order to continue to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. Future loan agreements would likely contain similar restrictions. The indentures pertaining to our senior subordinated notes permit us to incur certain additional indebtedness, including indebtedness secured by our customer notes receivable. Accordingly, to the extent our customer notes receivable increase and we have sufficient credit facilities available, we may be able to borrow additional funds. The indentures pertaining to our senior subordinated notes also permit us to borrow additional funds in order to finance development of our resorts. Future construction loans may result in liens against the respective properties. 29Table of ContentsCommon stock could be impacted by our indebtedness. The level of our indebtedness could negatively impact holders of our common stock, because: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness;• our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, or acquisitions may be limited;• our level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility in reacting to changes in the industry and economic conditions generally;• negative covenants in our loan agreements may limit our management’s ability to operate our business in the best interests of our shareholders;• some of our loans are at variable rates of interest, and a substantial increase in interest rates above applicable floor rates, could adversely affect our ability to meet debt service obligations; and• increased interest expense will reduce earnings, if any. We could lose the right to manage the Clubs. Aside from Orlando Breeze, each Existing Resort has a Club that operates through a centralized organization called Silverleaf Club, to manage such resorts on a collective basis. Orlando Breeze has its own Club, which is not part of Silverleaf Club. The centralization of operations under Silverleaf Club permits: • a centralized reservation system for these resorts;• centralized purchasing of goods and services for these resorts on a group basis;• centralized management for the entire resort system;• centralized legal, accounting, and administrative services for the entire resort system; and• uniform implementation of various rules and regulations governing these resorts. We currently have the right to unilaterally appoint the Board of Directors or Governors of the Clubs until the respective control periods expire (typically triggered by the cessation of sales of the planned development), unless otherwise provided by the bylaws of the association or under applicable law. Thereafter, the bylaws of certain Clubs require that a majority of the members of the Board of Directors or Governors of those Clubs be owners of Vacation Intervals of those resorts. The loss of control of the Board of Directors or Governors of the Clubs could result in our being unable to unilaterally cause the renewal of the Management Agreement with the Silverleaf Club when it expires in 2020. This could result in a loss of revenue and have other materially adverse effects on our business, results of operations, or financial position. We could issue preferred stock that would have rights and preferences senior to common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to establish the preferences and rights, including the right to vote and the right to convert into common stock. Such preferences and rights would likely grant such preferred stockholders certain preferences in right of payment upon a dissolution of the Company and the liquidation of our assets that would not be available to common stockholders. To the extent that our credit facilities would permit, the Board could also establish a dividend payable to the holders of the preferred stock that would not be available to common stockholders. Our cash flow may not be adequate upon an acceleration of deferred income taxes. While we report sales of Vacation Intervals as income at the time of the sale after receiving a 10% to 15% down payment for financial reporting purposes, we report substantially all of the Vacation Interval sales we finance under the installment method for regular federal income tax purposes. Under this method, income on sales of Vacation Intervals is not recognized until cash is received, either in the form of a down payment or as installment payments on customer notes receivable. Our liability for deferred income taxes (i.e., taxes owed to taxing authorities in the future related to income previously reported in the financial statements) was $113.4 million at December 31, 2010, primarily attributable to this method of reporting Vacation Interval sales, before utilization of any available deferred tax benefits (up to $75.7 million at December 31, 2010), including net operating loss carryforwards, limitations on the use of which are discussed below. These amounts do not include accrued interest on the deferred taxes, which will be payable if the deferred taxes become payable, the amount of which is not now reasonably ascertainable. If we should sell our installment notes or be required to factor such notes or if the notes were foreclosed on by one of our senior lenders or otherwise disposed of, the deferred gain would be reportable for regular federal tax purposes and the deferred taxes, including interest on the taxes for the period such taxes were deferred, as computed under Section 453 of the Internal Revenue 30Table of ContentsCode of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), would become due. We cannot be certain that we would have sufficient cash resources to pay those taxes and interest nor can we be certain how the payment of such taxes may affect our operational liquidity needs. Furthermore, if our sales of Vacation Intervals should decrease in the future, our diminished operations may not generate either sufficient tax losses to offset taxable income or funds to pay the deferred tax liability from prior periods. We are subject to Alternative Minimum Taxes. For purposes of computing the 20% alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) imposed under Section 55 of the Code on our alternative minimum taxable income (“AMTI”), the installment sales method is generally not allowed. The Code requires an adjustment to our AMTI for a portion of our adjusted current earnings (“ACE”). Our ACE must be computed without application of the installment sales method. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will pay AMT in future years. However, Section 53 of the Code provides for a credit (“minimum tax credit”) against our regular federal income tax liability for all or a portion of any AMT previously paid. For 2010, we estimate our AMT liability was $492,000, which results in total AMT credit carryforwards of $23.8 million as of December 31, 2010. Our credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2009 were $23.3 million, as adjusted. Due to the exchange offer described under the next heading, an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Code occurred. Under Section 383, the excess credits existing as of the date of an ownership change can be used to offset tax liability for post-change years only to the extent of the Section 383 Credit Limitation, which is defined as the tax liability attributable to taxable income to the extent it does not exceed the Section 382 limitation for such post-change year (to the extent available after the application of various adjustments). As a result of certain refunds of previously paid AMT, there is no minimum tax credit that is subject to Section 383 of the Code as a result of our ownership change. If it is subsequently determined that we have an AMT liability for prior years, and thus a minimum tax credit as of the time of the exchange offer, or if additional “ownership changes” within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Code occur in the future, the ownership changes may result in a limitation on the use of our minimum tax credit. See the discussion under the next heading regarding possible future ownership changes. Our use of net operating loss carryforwards could be limited by an ownership change. We had net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of $141.5 million at December 31, 2010 for regular federal income tax purposes, related primarily to the immediate deduction of expenses and the simultaneous deferral of installment sale gains. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of NOLs under Section 172 of the Code, Section 382 of the Code imposes additional limitations on the utilization of NOLs by a corporation following various types of ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three-year period. Our completion in 2002 of our exchange offer with certain holders of our senior subordinated notes resulted in an ownership change within Section 382(g) as of May 2, 2002 (the “change date”). As a result, the future utilization of $8.5 million of our NOL as of December 31, 2010 is subject to limitation for regular federal income tax purposes. There is an annual limitation of $768,000, which was the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. However, that annual limitation may be increased for any recognized built-in gain, which existed as of the change date to the extent allowed in Section 382 of the Code. We believe that the built-in gain associated with the installment sale gains as of the change date increases the annual limitation and will allow the utilization of most of the $8.5 million portion of our NOL as needed. Nevertheless, we cannot be certain that the limitations of Section 382 will not limit or deny our future utilization of the $8.5 million portion of our NOL. Such limitation or denial could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Moreover, we cannot be certain that future ownership changes will not limit or deny our future utilization of all of our NOL. If we cannot utilize our NOL, we will be required to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity. We could be liable for back payroll taxes if our independent contractors are reclassified as employees. Although we treat all on-site sales personnel as employees for payroll tax purposes, we do have independent contractor agreements with certain sales and marketing persons or entities. We have not treated these independent contractors as employees and do not withhold payroll taxes from the amounts paid to such persons or entities. We have primarily analyzed our relationships with our independent contractors in accordance with the employment status classification guidance for employers in Revenue Ruling 87-41. In following this guidance, we have considered our contractual relationship with our independent contractors under each of the twenty enumerated factors or elements in Revenue Ruling 87-41. These twenty factors are used by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to determine whether sufficient control exists to establish an employer-employee relationship. Based upon application of these twenty factors, we do not believe that it is at least reasonably possible that the IRS would be successful in reclassifying our 31Table of Contentsindependent contractors as employees. Among other compelling reasons that demonstrate our lack of control over these contractors is the fact that many of them also provide services to our competitors on a contract basis. However, in the event the IRS or any state or local taxing authority were to successfully classify such persons or entities as employees, rather than as independent contractors, we could be liable for back payroll taxes. This could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. We could be negatively impacted by national and state Do-Not-Call Lists. We rely heavily on telemarketing activities to arrange tours of our resorts to potential customers. On July 3, 2003, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) released new rules and regulations promulgated under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, which could have a negative impact on our telemarketing activities. The FCC has implemented, in conjunction with the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), a National Do Not Call Registry, which applies to both interstate and intrastate commercial telemarketing calls. The FTC has reported that approximately 191 million telephone numbers had been registered on the National Do Not Call Registry as of September 30, 2009. This will continue to limit the number of contacts we will be able to make through our telemarketing activities. We will continue to telemarket to individuals who do not place their telephone numbers on a do-not-call list and those with whom we have an established business relationship. Our use of autodialers to call potential customers in our database could also be restricted by new call abandonment standards specified in the FCC rules and regulations. The large quantity of telephone numbers registered on the National Do Not Call Registry and the restrictions on our use of autodialers could negatively affect our sales and marketing efforts and require us to use less effective, more expensive alternative marketing methods such as direct mail. The new rules became effective on October 1, 2003 and we have experienced a decline in the number of telemarketing calls we are able to complete as a result of the changes in the rules relating to the use of automatic dialers. All companies involved in telemarketing have experienced some negative impact to their businesses as a result of the do-not-call rules and other federal and state legislation, which seeks to protect the privacy of consumers from various types of marketing solicitations. Because of our historical dependence on telemarketing, we believe that these changes in the law will continue to have a material impact on our operations and will require us to modify our historical marketing practices in order to both remain compliant with the law and to achieve the levels of resort tours by consumers which are necessary for our profitable operation. We will continue to assess the do-not-call rules' impact on both operations and alternative methods of marketing, such as direct mail, that are not impacted by the new rules. In addition to the National Do-Not-Call List, various states have implemented Do-Not-Call legislation that also may affect our business. The substantially increased costs of our compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirements of Section 404, may adversely affect our available cash, our management team’s attention to our core business, and the price of our stock. As of December 31, 2010, we are required to comply with the internal control reporting provisions of §404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) to implement §404. However, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which amended §404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2010, we are not required to obtain an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm for this annual report. The amendment, addressed in §404(c) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, permanently exempts non-accelerated filers from the §404(b) requirement of an independent audit of internal control over financial reporting. Therefore, we have provided only management’s report in this annual report. In response to the requirements of §404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have taken steps over the last several years to increase the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These internal control enhancements have resulted in substantially increased costs to us. Our management also regularly evaluates the effectiveness and design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. While we currently believe our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and properly documented, we may find it necessary to continue to incur substantially increased costs in future periods to further enhance our internal controls over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that our continuing assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting will not result in increased costs of compliance which may adversely affect our available cash, our management team’s attention to our core business, and our stock price. 32Table of ContentsThe market trading price and trading volume of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The market trading price of our common stock has recently been, and may continue to be, volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. For example, the closing market trading price for our common stock has fluctuated over the past two years from a low of $0.30 to a high of $1.70. Because of our stock’s history of trading volatility and current economic conditions, we believe that significant market fluctuations are likely to continue in future periods. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;• publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;• adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur;• additions or departures of key management personnel;• actions by institutional stockholders;• speculation in the press or investment community;• the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this report; and• general market and economic conditions. The trading market for our common stock may be limited. Approximately 52.4% of our shares are held by non-affiliates and there has historically been a low and inconsistent trading volume for our shares. For example, the average daily trading volume for our shares for the two-month period ended December 31, 2010 was approximately 38,860 shares. There can be no assurance that an active and steady trading market, which is not subject to extreme fluctuations, will develop for our shares. Sales of common stock by existing shareholders, including officers or directors, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Approximately 47.6% of our common stock is held by affiliates, including our executive officers and directors. Volume sales of stock by these affiliates in the trading market coupled with the historically low daily trading volume for our common stock may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may fail to meet the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock is listed on NASDAQ. However, due to the historic volatility of the market trading price of our common stock, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the requirements for continued listing on NASDAQ. Our failure to comply with NASDAQ listing standards could result in the delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ, thereby limiting the ability of our shareholders to sell our common stock. On December 29, 2009, we received notification from NASDAQ stating we were no longer in compliance with the continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Capital Market as a result of the closing bid price per share of our common stock being below the minimum trading price of $1.00 for thirty consecutive business days. In accordance with applicable NASDAQ rules, we had a grace period of 180 calendar days (until June 28, 2010) to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing. In order to regain compliance, our closing bid price per share had to be at or above $1.00 for at least ten consecutive business days before June 28, 2010. Our common stock closed above $1.00 for ten consecutive business days beginning on March 11, 2010. On March 25, 2010, we received notification from NASDAQ stating we were back in compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing. Certain of our existing shareholders have the ability to exert a significant amount of control over the Company. As of December 31, 2010, Robert E. Mead, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), and President, beneficially owned approximately 24.5% of our outstanding common stock, and Bradford Whitmore and a partnership controlled by him, Grace Brothers, Ltd., beneficially owned 19.8% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exert significant influence over the Company and its activities, including the nomination, election, and removal of our Board of Directors, the adoption of amendments to our charter documents, and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. 33Table of ContentsMr. Mead and Mr. Whitmore’s interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and they may take actions affecting us with which other shareholders may disagree. For example, if Mr. Mead and Mr. Whitmore acted in concert, they may jointly decide not to enter into a transaction in which our shareholders would receive consideration for their shares that is much higher than the cost of their investment in our common stock or than the then current market price of our common stock. In connection with the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of the merger agreement, each of Resort Holdings, Merger Sub, and Mr. Mead entered into a voting agreement (the “Mead voting agreement”), under which Mr. Mead agreed to vote as a shareholder of the Company in favor of the merger pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Mead voting agreement. As of the record date, Mr. Mead beneficially owned, in the aggregate 9,349,417 shares, approximately 24.5% of the voting power of our common stock, subject to a voting trust agreement dated November 1, 1999 between Mr. Mead and Judith F. Mead, his wife. Available Information We file reports with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act. The general public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our Internet address is www.silverleafresorts.com. On our Internet website, we provide a link to the SEC’s website where our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act can be viewed. Upon request, we will make available free of charge copies of the aforementioned reports, as well as copies of the charters of the three independent committees of our Board of Directors and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This information can be obtained by written request to us at: Silverleaf Resorts, Inc. Attention: Sandra G. Cearley, Corporate Secretary, 1221 River Bend Drive, Suite 120, Dallas, Texas 75247. The information contained on our website, or on other websites linked to our website, is not part of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 