ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These risk factors include the following: General business, economic and political conditions may significantly affect our earnings. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, recession, unemployment, real estate values, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which we conduct business. If any of these conditions worsen, our business and earnings could be adversely affected. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively impact household incomes could decrease the demand for our home loans and increase the number of customers who become delinquent or default on their loans; or, a rising interest rate environment could decrease the demand for loans. In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The Federal Reserve’s policies influence the size of the mortgage origination market, which significantly impacts the earnings of our mortgage lending operation and the value of our investment in MSRs and other retained interests. The Federal Reserve’s policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents If we cannot effectively manage the impact of the volatility of interest rates, our earnings could be adversely affected. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to maximize the benefit and minimize the adverse effect of changes in interest rates on our earnings over an extended period of time. In managing these risks, we look at, among other things, yield curves and hedging strategies. As such, our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term because the market value of our assets and related hedges may be significantly impacted either positively or negatively by unanticipated variations in interest rates. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans made to others and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our profitability also depends in substantial part on the volume of loan originations and the related fees received in our mortgage banking operations. Our net interest margin and our volume of mortgage originations will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest margin and the mortgage origination volumes for the Bank and for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors. Our goal has been to structure our asset and liability management strategies to maximize the benefit of changes in market interest rate on our net interest margin and revenues related to mortgage origination volume. However, we can not give any assurance that a sudden or significant change in prevailing interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased short-term interest rates significantly, while long-term rates have increased more moderately, resulting in a flattened and then inverted yield curve. Our profitability levels on loan sales have been adversely affected by the rapidly rising interest rate environment. We manage the strategic interest rate risk in our home lending operation primarily through the natural counterbalance of our loan production and servicing operations. Increasing interest rates may decrease our mortgage loan originations and sales. Generally, the volume of mortgage loan originations is inversely related to the level of long-term interest rates. During periods of low interest rates, a significant number of our customers may elect to refinance their mortgages (i.e., pay off their existing higher rate mortgage loans with new mortgage loans obtained at lower interest rates). Our profitability levels and those of others in the mortgage banking industry have generally been strongest during periods of low and/or declining interest rates, as we have historically been able to sell the resulting increased volume of loans into the secondary market at a gain. We have also benefited from periods of wide spreads between short and long term interest rates. If interest rates rise after we fix a price for a loan or commitment but before we close or sell such loan, the value of the loan will decrease and the amount we receive from selling the loan may be less than its cost to originate. When interest rates fluctuate, repricing risks arise from the timing difference in the maturity and/or repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions. While such repricing mismatches are fundamental to our business, they can expose us to fluctuations in income and economic value as interest rates vary. Our interest rate risk management strategies do not completely eliminate repricing risk. A significant amount of our deposit liabilities are higher-priced jumbo accounts which we attribute to the current highly competitive market for deposits and, in part, to our practice of using attractive deposit rates when we open new banking centers in new markets. These account holders are more sensitive to the interest rate paid on their account than most depositors. There is no guarantee that in a changing rate environment we will be able to retain all of these depositors’ accounts. We also call on local municipal agencies as another source for deposit funding. While a valuable source of liquidity, we believe that municipal deposits are usually extremely rate sensitive and, therefore, prone to withdrawal if higher interest rates are offered elsewhere. Because of the interest rate sensitivity of these depositors, there is no guarantee that in a changing rate environment we will be able to retain all funds in these accounts. Changes in interest rates may cause a mismatch in our mortgage origination flow of loans, or “pipeline” and adversely affect our profitability. In our mortgage banking operation, we are exposed to interest rate risk 14 Table of Contents from the time we commit to an interest rate on a mortgage loan application through the time we sell or commit to sell the mortgage loan. On a daily basis, we analyze various economic and market factors to estimate the percentage of mortgage loans we expect to sell for delivery at a future date. The amount of loans that we commit to sell is based in part on our expectation of the pull-through percentage, which is the ratio of mortgage loans closed divided by the number of mortgage loans on which we have issued binding commitments (and thereby locked in the interest rate) but have not yet closed (“pipeline loans”) . If interest rates change in an unanticipated fashion, the actual percentage of pipeline loans that close may differ from the projected percentage. A mismatch of commitments to fund mortgage loans and commitments to sell mortgage loans may have an adverse effect on the results of operations in any such period. For instance, we may not have made commitments to sell these additional pipeline loans and therefore may incur significant losses upon their sale if the market rate of interest is higher than the mortgage interest rate to which we committed on such additional pipeline loans. Alternatively, we may have made commitments to sell more loans than actually closed or at prices that are no longer profitable to us. Our profitability may be adversely affected to the extent our economic hedging strategy for pipeline loans is not effective. Our allowance for possible loan losses may be insufficient. We maintain an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside our control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net earnings and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our secondary market reserve for losses on repurchased loans could be insufficient. We currently maintain a secondary market reserve, which is a liability on our statement of financial condition, to reflect our best estimate of expected losses that we have incurred on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. Increases to this reserve for current loan sales reduce our net gain on loan sales, with adjustments to our previous estimates recorded as an increase or decrease to our other fees and charges. The level of the reserve reflects management’s continuing evaluation of loss experience on repurchased loans, recovery history, and present economic conditions, among other things. The determination of the appropriate level of the secondary market reserve inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of repurchase risks and expected losses. Both the assumptions and estimates used could change materially, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. Further, our bank regulators periodically review us and may, in their discretion and based on their own judgment, which may differ from that of management, require us to increase the amount of the reserve through additional provisions. Such increases will result in a reduction in net earnings and could have an adverse effect on our statement of financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The value of our mortgage servicing rights varies with changes in interest rates. The market value of, and earnings from, our mortgage loan servicing portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in interest rates. When mortgage rates rise we would generally expect payoffs in our servicing portfolio to decline, which increases the fair value of our MSR. When mortgage interest rates decline mortgage loan prepayments tend to increase as customers refinance their loans. When this happens, the income stream from our current mortgage loan servicing portfolio may decline. In that case, we may be required to amortize the portfolio over a shorter period of time or reduce the carrying value of our mortgage loan servicing portfolio. Our home lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to resell mortgages. Currently, we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate. The profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and to sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, we are dependent upon (1) the existence of an active secondary market and (2) our ability to profitably sell loans or securities into that market. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Some of the largest participants in the secondary market, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law. Any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of such government-sponsored enterprises could, in turn, adversely affect our operations. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. We expect to remain eligible to participate in such programs but any significant impairment of our eligibility could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time to time by the sponsoring entity. The profitability of participating in specific programs may vary depending on a number of factors, including our administrative costs of originating and purchasing qualifying loans. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate and commercial business lending activities. In recent years, we have emphasized the origination of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. At December 31, 2006, our balance of commercial loans was $1.3 billion, which was 14.7% of loans held for investment and 8.4% of total assets. Loans collateralized by commercial real estate generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than single-family residential mortgage loans and carry larger loan balances. This increased credit risk is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties, and the greater difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans collateralized by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate property. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Other commercial business loans generally have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans as well. Conversely residential mortgage loans are generally made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment or other income, and are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may depend substantially on the success of the business itself. Further, any collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. 16 Table of Contents We have substantial risks in connection with securitizations and loan sales. Securitization and loan sale transactions comprise a significant source of our overall funding. Our sales channels include whole loan sales, sales to government-sponsored enterprises and sales through private-label securitizations. Private-label securitizations, sponsored by us, involve transfers of loans to off-balance sheet qualifying special purpose entities who in turn issue securities to third parties. Residuals, which are retained interests created in a mortgage loan securitization, typically represent the first loss position and are not typically rated by a nationally recognized rating agency. If we hold the residuals, we are at risk for the initial losses that might occur with these securitizations. In a securitization transaction, we may recognize a gain on sale resulting from related residuals and/or servicing rights in the securitized pool of loans when we sell or securitize the assets. The values assigned to the residuals and/or servicing assets depends upon certain assumptions that we make about the future performance of the securitized loan portfolio, including the level of credit losses and the rate of prepayments. If actual credit losses or prepayment rates differ from the original assumptions, the value of the residuals and/or servicing assets may decrease materially, possibly resulting in a charge against earnings. The value of the residuals and/or servicing assets may also decrease materially as a result of changes in market interest rates. Changes in the volume of assets securitized or sold due to our inability to access the asset-backed securitization markets or other funding sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in the value of the residuals and/or servicing assets in securitizations that we have completed due to market interest rate fluctuations or higher than expected credit losses on prepayments also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we retain limited contractual exposure from the sale of mortgage loans. We make standard representations and warranties to the transferee in connection with all such dispositions. These representations and warranties do not insure the transferee against credit risk associated with the transferred loans, but if individual mortgage loans are found not to have complied with the associated representations and warranties, we may be required to repurchase the loans from the transferee or to indemnify the transferee against any losses on the loans. We have established a secondary market reserve for losses that arise in connection with representations and warranties for loans sold. Our ability to borrow funds and raise capital could be limited, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our ability to make mortgage loans depends largely on our ability to secure funds on terms acceptable to us. Our primary sources of funds to meet our financing needs include loan sales and securitizations, deposits, borrowings from the FHLB, borrowings from investment and commercial banks through repurchase agreements, and capital-raising activities. Our ability to maintain borrowing facilities is subject to renewal of these facilities. If we are unable to renew any of these financing arrangements or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on any of the restrictions imposed upon us by our borrowing facilities, then we may have to reduce the number of loans we are able to originate for sale in the secondary market or for our own investment. A sudden and significant reduction in loan originations that occurs as a result could adversely impact our earnings. There is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately access capital markets when or if a need for additional capital arises. Certain changes in the economy could effect our financial, funding, and liquidity risks. Management of liquidity and related risks is a key function for our business. Our funding requirements currently are met principally by deposits, financing from the FHLB and other financial institutions, and financing using capital markets. In general, the costs of our funding directly impact our costs of doing business and, therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make such funding more difficult, more expensive, or unavailable on affordable terms, including, but not limited to, our financial results, organizational changes, adverse impacts on our reputation, changes in the activities of our business partners, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our loan portfolio or other assets, changes affecting our corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate 17 Table of Contents fluctuations, ratings agency actions, general economic conditions, and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. In addition, our ability to raise funds is strongly affected by the general state of the U.S. and world economies and financial markets, and may become increasingly difficult due to economic and other factors. Regulatory laws or rules that establish minimum capital levels, regulate deposit insurance, and govern related funding matters for banks could be changed in a manner that could increase our overall cost of capital and thus reduce our earnings. We may not be able to replace key members of senior management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. We depend on the services of existing senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand and as we continue to refine our business model, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional senior management and to recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel that leave our employ. In addition, as we continue to grow our business and plan to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel. Competition for such personnel is especially keen in our geographic market areas and competition for the best people in most businesses in which we engage can be intense. If we are unable to attract and retain talented people our business could suffer. The loss of the services of any senior management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. The network and computer systems on which we depend could fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on the ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance of Internet banking depends substantially on widespread adoption of the Internet for general commercial and financial services transactions. If another provider of commercial services through the Internet were to suffer damage from physical break-in, security breach or other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users, the growth and public acceptance of the Internet for commercial transactions could suffer. This type of event could deter our potential customers or cause customers to leave us and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly regulated. The banking industry in general is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured depository institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. The OTS is the primary regulator of the Bank and its affiliated entities. In addition to its regulatory powers, the OTS also has significant enforcement authority that it can use to address unsafe and unsound banking practices, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. Such regulation and supervision are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for our depositors and borrowers, and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Further, the Bank’s business is affected by consumer protection 18 Table of Contents laws and regulation at the state and federal level, including a variety of consumer protection provisions, many of which provide for a private right of action and pose a risk of class action lawsuits. Accordingly, the actions of governmental authorities responsible for regulatory, fiscal and monetary affairs can have a significant and immediate impact on the activities of financial services firms such as ours. See further information in “Item 1. Business — Regulation and Supervision.” Our business has volatile earnings because it operates based on a multi-year cycle. The home lending segment of our business is a cyclical business that generally performs better in a low interest rate environment with a yield curve that is lower at the shorter time frames and higher at the longer time frames. In addition, other external factors, including tax laws, the strength of various segments of the economy and demographics of our lending markets, could influence the level of demand for mortgage loans. Gain on sale of loans is a large component of our revenue and would be adversely impacted by a significant decrease in the volume of our mortgage loan originations. Geographic concentrations pose a higher risk of loan losses. A significant portion of our mortgage loan portfolio is geographically concentrated in certain states, including California, Michigan, Florida, Washington, Colorado, Texas and Arizona, which collectively represent approximately 65.4% of our mortgage loans held for investment balance at December 31, 2006. In addition, 76.9% of our commercial real estate loans are in Michigan. Any adverse economic conditions in these markets could cause the number of loans originated to decrease, likely resulting in a corresponding decline in revenues and an increase in credit risk. Also, we could be adversely affected by business disruptions triggered by natural disasters, or acts of war or terrorism. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our portfolio. Approximately 79.7% or our investment loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006, was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. The collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment if the borrower defaults and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. An adverse change in the economy affecting real estate values generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability could be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market. A significant part of our business strategy involves adding new branch locations, and our failure to grow may adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion strategy consists principally of adding new branch locations in Michigan, Indiana and Georgia growth areas that complement our existing branch network. While we anticipate that this expansion strategy will enhance long-term shareholder value, it is possible that our branch expansion strategy may not become accretive to our earnings over the short term. New branches generally require a significant initial capital investment and take several years to become profitable. New branches require a significant upfront investment for land and building expenses. Accordingly, we anticipate that, in the short term, net income will be negatively affected as we incur significant capital expenditures and noninterest expense in opening and operating new branches before the new branches can produce sufficient net interest income to offset the increased expense. In addition, the need to use capital to fund de novo branching may limit our ability to pay or increase dividends on our common stock. There also is implementation risk associated with new branches. Numerous factors will determine whether our branch expansion strategy will be successful, such as our ability to select suitable branch locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. 19 Table of Contents The state income tax structure in Michigan or other states could change significantly causing a reduction in our profitability. A significant portion of our business is conducted in Michigan and we are likely to continue to have a significant portion of our business in Michigan. During 2006, the Michigan legislature repealed the single business tax that served as a significant source of revenue for the state. It is currently unknown as to what type of taxing structure will replace Michigan’s single business tax. As such, should the replacement to the single business tax be less favorable to companies like ours, our profitability could be adversely impacted. Similarly, the taxing structure or the interpretation of other state regulation concerning tax could change in a manner that would be less favorable to us and therefore adversely impact our profitability. We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny with respect to bank secrecy and anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We can not be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Other Risk Factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 