ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have a history of losses and we may not be profitable in the future. We cannot assure investors that we will be profitable in the future or, if we attain profitability, that it will be sustainable. In May 2005, our board of directors approved a strategic restructuring to focus the Company’s resources on our most promising assets and programs and significantly reduce our cost structure. Under our current strategic operating plan, we are focusing our resources on continuing to develop and enhance our DirectSelect technology and seeking to enter into pharmaceutical partnerships for drug discovery and development utilizing this technology that will provide revenues to our Company, as well as to expand our own proprietary development pipeline; and advancing the clinical development of PPI-2458, with a goal of partnering this program in one or more indications as clinical development advances. We are also actively pursuing the disposition of our Plenaxis assets. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, we intend to cease distribution of the product in the United States. To date, we have derived substantially all of our revenues from payments under corporate collaboration and license agreements, and from product sales. Our marketing and selling efforts with regard to Plenaxis in the United States were not commercially successful, and we may be unable to successfully discover, develop or market any other products in the future. Moreover, we may be unable to enter into research collaborations or partnerships with respect to DirectSelect or PPI-2458, or dispose of our Plenaxis assets in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Our current strategic operating plan includes significant ongoing expenditures to support the continued enhancement of our DirectSelect technology and the continuation of our PPI-2458 clinical development program, and for general and administrative purposes. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $305.1 million. We expect that we will continue to incur significant operating losses for at least the next several years, and we may not be profitable in the future. 14 If we are unable to successfully carry out our strategic operating plan, we may have to obtain additional sources of funding or significantly modify our strategic operating plan. If we are unable to successfully carry out one or more of the key elements of our strategic operating plan described in the immediately preceding risk factor, we believe that our existing cash and investments of approximately $62.6 million at December 31, 2005 will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs through approximately the end of 2007. If we are able to successfully carry out one or more of the key elements of our strategic operating plan described above, or if we are able to realize significant value from the disposition of our Plenaxis assets, we may be able, without obtaining additional funding, to continue to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs beyond that time, although we cannot provide any assurances as to if or for how long we would be able to do so. If we are unable to successfully carry out one or more of the key elements of our strategic operating plan, and/or realize significant value from the disposition of our Plenaxis assets, we may have to obtain additional sources of funding or significantly modify our strategic operating plan, including by curtailing or eliminating certain elements of our operations. Moreover, if we are unable to dispose of our Plenaxis assets in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, we intend to cease distribution of Plenaxis in the United States, in which event, we would incur a yet undetermined amount of shut-down costs and expenses and would need to devote funds and other resources that would otherwise be available to carry out our current strategic operating plan. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be acceptable to us. To date, our operations and capital requirements have been financed primarily with the proceeds of public and private sales of common stock and preferred stock, payments under research and development partnerships and collaborative agreements, investment income and revenues from product sales. In addition, in October 2005 we sold our facility and intend to use the net proceeds from that sale to fund our ongoing operations. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell any securities, enter into additional partnerships and collaborative agreements or borrow funds in the future at favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders will result. In addition, as a condition to giving additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. We may also be required to take other actions, which may lessen the value of our common stock or dilute our common stockholders, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are required to raise money in the future and we experience difficulties or are unable to do so, it could become necessary for us to cease operations or seek protection under state or federal insolvency or bankruptcy laws. Our DirectSelect drug discovery technology is still under development, and we may not be able to enter into pharmaceutical partnerships with respect to this technology and/or discover compounds that will provide significant revenues for our Company and lead to marketable products. We are focusing our early stage drug discovery efforts on our proprietary DirectSelect drug discovery technology, and our future success depends in large part on the successful development of this technology, as well as our ability to enter into collaborations relating to this technology. We believe that DirectSelect is a novel technology that will allow us to rapidly and directly identify compounds that are orally available and have high affinity and specificity. However, if we are unable to obtain adequate patent protection for our DirectSelect technology, another party could offer drug discovery capabilities that directly compete with our capabilities or could attempt to block our ability to practice our technology. Furthermore, we cannot assure investors that this technology will allow us to offer significant advantages over traditional drug discovery methods. For example, the feasibility of creating and screening ultra-large advanced combinatorial chemistry libraries resulting in successful leads is still in the development stage. Moreover, we may not be able to identify novel compounds from the libraries that we create that can address a broad spectrum of targets or that can be rapidly taken into clinical development and that ultimately lead to marketable products. If we are not successful in continuing to enhance this technology and in identifying 15 product candidate(s) using this technology for either a partner or for internal development, we may never generate revenues from this technology and would be required to significantly modify our operating plan. Given our strategic focus on forming partnerships with respect to our DirectSelect technology, we are also dependent upon the extent to which pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies continue to collaborate with outside companies to obtain drug discovery expertise. Our revenue will depend, in part, on research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, particularly companies outsourcing research and development projects and adding new and improved technologies to accelerate their drug discovery and development initiatives. Our capabilities include aspects of the drug discovery process that pharmaceutical companies have traditionally performed internally. Although there is a history among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies of outsourcing drug research and development functions, this practice may not continue. Our ability to convince one or more of these companies to use our drug discovery technology and capabilities rather than develop them internally will depend on many factors, including our ability to: · continue to enhance and refine our DirectSelect technology resulting in the identification of high-quality drug candidates; · identify and retain scientists and discover and utilize technology that are of the highest caliber; and · achieve intended results in a timely fashion, with acceptable quality and cost. We also face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for such collaborative arrangements, and technological and other developments by our competitors may make it more difficult for us to establish such relationships. If we are unable to attract collaborators, we may never generate revenues from this technology and would be forced to significantly modify our operating plan. We are subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could prevent us from developing, and ultimately commercializing, potential products. The development and sale of pharmaceutical products, including Plenaxis, PPI-2458 or other product candidates we may discover, is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities. Obtaining regulatory approval typically is costly and takes many years; maintaining regulatory approval also requires substantial resources. Regulatory authorities, most importantly, the FDA, have substantial discretion to place on clinical hold or terminate clinical trials, delay, withhold or withdraw registration and marketing approval in the United States, and effectively mandate product recalls. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or injunction. Outside the United States, we can market a product only if we receive marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process, and may include additional risks. To gain regulatory approval from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for the commercial sale of any product, we must demonstrate in clinical trials, and satisfy the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities as to, the safety and efficacy of the product. If we develop a product to treat a long-term, recurrent or terminal disease, such as cancer, we must gather data over an extended period of time. There are many risks associated with our clinical trials. For example, we may discover that the product we are testing is not effective, despite positive results in preclinical studies. While our compound, PPI-2458, has been shown to inhibit its target enzyme, MetAP-2, in preclinical and early clinical testing, we do not know if this will ultimately result in an effective treatment for cancer or any other disease. We also may be unable to achieve the same level of success in later trials as we did in earlier ones. Additionally, data we obtain from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could impede regulatory approval. Furthermore, patients may experience adverse events while participating in a clinical trial that are unrelated to our product, but that nevertheless may affect the statistical analysis of the safety and efficacy of PPI-2458, potentially slow the rate of subject accrual in this trial or otherwise adversely 16 affect the clinical trial. If we obtain regulatory approval for a product, the approval will be limited to those diseases for which our clinical trials demonstrate the product is safe and effective. In addition, many factors could delay or result in termination of our ongoing or future clinical trials. For example, results from ongoing preclinical studies or analyses could raise concerns over the safety or efficacy of a product candidate. For example, in March 2004, the FDA placed our phase 1 clinical trial of PPI-2458 on clinical hold due to non-clinical study findings with PPI-2458. Although we subsequently received clearance from the FDA to resume clinical testing of PPI-2458, we cannot assure investors that the FDA will not place this or other clinical trials on hold in the future. A clinical trial may also experience slow patient enrollment. A study could also be delayed due to lack of sufficient drug supply. Patients may experience adverse medical events or side effects, and there may be a real or perceived lack of effectiveness of, or of safety issues associated with, the drug we are testing. Future governmental action or existing or changes in FDA or foreign regulatory authority policies or precedents, may also result in delays or rejection of an application for marketing approval. The FDA, and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, have considerable discretion in determining whether to grant marketing approval for a drug, and may delay or deny approval even in circumstances where the applicant’s clinical trials have proceeded in compliance with established procedures and regulations and have met the established end-points of the trials. Challenges to regulatory determinations are generally time-consuming and costly, and rarely, if ever, succeed. Although we received FDA approval to market Plenaxis in the United States in November 2003 and in Germany in September 2005, we can give no assurance that we will obtain marketing approval for PPI-2458 or any other potential product candidate. Any regulatory approval may be conditioned upon significant labeling requirements and, as in the case of the FDA approval of Plenaxis, marketing restrictions and post-marketing study commitments. Such labeling and marketing restrictions could, and in the case of Plenaxis in the United States, did, materially adversely affect the marketability and/or value of the product. As part of our recent restructuring to focus our resources on our most promising assets and programs and significantly reduce our cost structure, we have voluntarily discontinued promotional activities related to Plenaxis and the sale of Plenaxis for new patients in the United States. In addition, although Plenaxis was approved in Germany, our former partner elected to terminate its agreement with us, and we may not be able to license or sell the product to a third party to enable its commercialization in Germany or to pursue additional regulatory approvals in other countries. Even if regulatory approval is obtained for a product, the product and the manufacturing facilities for the product will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product, the manufacturer or us, including withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities stringently apply regulatory standards. Our manufacturing facilities will also be subject to FDA or foreign regulatory inspections for adherence to good manufacturing practices prior to marketing clearance and periodically during the manufacturing process. Failure to comply can, among other things, result in fines, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. If there are any modifications to a product, further regulatory approval will be required. In addition, manufacturing, sales, promotion, and other activities following product approval are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in addition to the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities outside the United States, including potentially the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, CMS, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, state and local governments and comparable governmental authorities outside the United States. Sales, marketing and scientific/educational programs must comply with the anti-kickback provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with pricing and reimbursement rules, including the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veteran’s Health Care Act. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the 17 General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of our activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws and comparable foreign laws. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these applicable legal and regulatory requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, private “qui tam” actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. If we are unable to successfully carry out one or more of the key elements of our operating plan, which include the continued clinical development of PPI-2458 and potentially other product candidates discovered using our DirectSelect technology, we may need to raise additional capital and, if we were unable to do so, it could become necessary for us to cease operations or seek protection under state or federal bankruptcy laws. We may be unable to enter into and maintain corporate collaborations necessary to support the discovery and development of products using our DirectSelect technology or the further development and potential commercialize of PPI-2458 or other potential products in the future. Our business objective is to utilize our DirectSelect and other proprietary technologies to discover, in a rapid and efficient manner, novel, orally-available compounds with the potential to address unmet medical needs or improve existing therapies. We intend to collaborate with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies on the discovery and development stages for these compounds across a broad range of therapeutic areas. We also intend to select promising compounds to retain for internal development and will partner these compounds at various stages of development to optimize their value to the Company. In addition, we have announced our intention to partner our PPI-2458 program in one or more indications as clinical development advances. We currently do not intend to independently market the products that may ultimately result from our discovery and development efforts. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to enter into and maintain partnerships and corporate collaborations in a timely manner and on favorable terms. if at all. Even if we are able to enter into such arrangements, we cannot assure our investors that our future collaborators will meet their obligations to us under our collaboration agreements. If a partner terminates its agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations, it may delay the discovery and development of product candidates. As a result, we could have to devote unforeseen additional resources to drug discovery and development or be forced to significantly modify our operating plan. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to pursue the development of our drug discovery technology or our product development and commercialization efforts. We depend substantially on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, including Kevin F. McLaughlin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Richard W. Wagner, Ph.D., our Executive Vice President, Discovery Research. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time and work for one of our competitors. The loss of these key individuals could result in competitive harm because we could experience delays in the development of our drug discovery technology or our product research and development efforts without their expertise. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform future research and development work also will be critical to our success. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high. We compete with numerous companies and academic and other research institutions for experienced scientists. This competition may limit our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Moreover, due to our strategic restructuring in May 2005 and our limited resources 18 compared to many of our competitors, we may face additional challenges when recruiting qualified personnel in the future. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel would prevent us from continuing to develop and enhance our DirectSelect technology and use this technology to support pharmaceutical partnerships in drug discovery and development that will provide significant revenues to our Company, as well as to expand our own proprietary development pipeline and advance our PPI-2458 clinical development program. Due to the termination by Schering AG of our collaboration agreement, absent a third party sale or license agreement, we do not expect that Plenaxis will be commercialized outside of the United States or continue to be available for patients in the United States. We depended upon our corporate collaborator, Schering AG, to commercialize Plenaxis in Schering AG’s licensed territory, including Germany, where we received marketing authorization in September 2005. We also relied on Schering AG to some extent in seeking regulatory approval for Plenaxis in various other countries in the European Union and European Economic Area which participate in the Mutual Recognition Procedure, or MRP, and elsewhere in Schering AG’s licensed territory under local regulatory procedures. Although we have received marketing authorization for Plenaxis in Germany, we do not have the financial resources or expertise to market the product in Germany or in any other territories outside of the United States. For this reason, we do not intend to independently seek additional approvals for Plenaxis in the European Union under the MRP or in any other territory outside the United States. Accordingly, the termination of our agreement with Schering AG may delay or prevent additional regulatory approvals for Plenaxis, and the ultimate commercialization of Plenaxis, outside of the United States. Moreover, due to the termination of the Schering AG agreement, we would need to devote funds and other resources to the Plenaxis program that we had planned would be available from Schering AG, in particular to support the continuing costly manufacture of the product for limited distribution in the United States and to meet our minimum purchase commitments under our Plenaxis manufacturing agreements. We have announced our intention to dispose of our Plenaxis assets through a license or sale transaction and have engaged an investment banking firm to assist us with this effort. However, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to conclude such a transaction in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In that event we do not intend to pursue further the commercialization of Plenaxis outside of the United States and will seek to discontinue all distribution of Plenaxis in the United States. If we so terminate Plenaxis distribution, we would incur a yet undetermined amount of shut-down costs and expenses and would need to devote funds and other resources that would otherwise be available to support our current operating plan. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to us. Because we depend on third parties to rapidly analyze data generated by our DirectSelect technology and to conduct laboratory testing and human clinical studies and assist us with regulatory compliance, we may encounter delays in our drug discovery and development efforts. We currently rely on a single vendor to rapidly analyze data generated by our DirectSelect technology. In addition, we have contracts with a limited number of research organizations to design and conduct our laboratory testing and human clinical studies. If we cannot contract for data analysis and testing activities on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not complete our drug discovery and development efforts in a timely manner. To the extent we rely on third parties for these activities, we may lose some control over these activities. For example, third parties may not complete data analysis and testing activities on schedule or when we request them to do so. In addition, these third parties may conduct our clinical trials in a manner inconsistent with regulatory requirements or otherwise in a manner that yields misleading or unreliable data. This, or other failures of these third parties to carry out their duties, could result in significant additional costs and expenses and could delay or prevent our ability to effectively utilize our DirectSelect 19 technology for internal programs or in connection with partnerships or further develop PPI-2458 or other future product candidates. If we fail to develop and maintain our relationships with third-party manufacturers, or if these manufacturers fail to perform adequately, we may be unable to develop and commercialize PPI-2458 or any other future product candidate or to continue to support the commercialization of Plenaxis. Our ability to conduct large clinical trials for, or to commercialize, PPI-2458 or any future product candidate, will depend in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for third-party manufacture of, our products on a large scale, at a competitive cost and in accordance with regulatory requirements. We must establish and maintain a commercial scale formulation and manufacturing process for each of our potential products for which we seek marketing approval. We or third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties with these processes at any time that could result in delays in clinical trials, regulatory submissions or in the commercialization of potential products. We have no direct experience in large-scale product manufacturing, nor do we have the resources or facilities to manufacture on our own products for use in humans. We currently rely on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of PPI-2458 and Plenaxis, and expect to rely on contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future for the manufacture of any other compounds for later-stage preclinical, clinical and commercial purposes. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs as to timing, quantity or quality of materials. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of needed materials on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers, our clinical trials may be delayed, thereby preventing or delaying the submission of product candidates for, or the granting of, regulatory approval and the commercialization of our potential products. Any such delays may lower our future revenues and delay or prevent our attaining or maintaining profitability. If the third-party manufacturers upon which we rely fail to meet our needs for clinical or commercial supply, we may be required to supplement our manufacturing capacity by building our own manufacturing facilities. This would require substantial expenditures. Also, we would need to hire and train significant numbers of employees to staff a new facility. If we are required to build our own facility, we may not be able to develop sufficient manufacturing capacity to produce drug materials for clinical trials or commercial use in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, we and the third-party manufacturers that we use must continually adhere to current good manufacturing practice requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities quality programs. Foreign regulatory authorities may also inspect our third-party manufacturers as a condition of obtaining and maintaining the requisite approvals. In complying with these requirements, we and any of our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our potential products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions, manufacturing delays, or the facilities could be shut down. Any of these factors could prevent, or cause delays in, obtaining regulatory approvals for PPI-2458 or any other potential product, and the manufacturing, marketing or selling of PPI-2458 or any such other product, and could also result in significantly higher operating expenses. Any of these factors, insofar as they affect the manufacture of Plenaxis, could also adversely affect our ability to enter into a license or sale transaction with respect to Plenaxis in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Our one-for-five reverse stock split could have various negative effects on our common stock and our stockholders. Our one-for-five reverse stock split effected in November 2005 resulted in an immediate increase in the market price of our common stock. However, this increase in the market price of our common stock may not be in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding or result in a permanent increase in the market price (which depends on many factors, including our 20 performance, prospects and other factors that may be unrelated to the number of shares outstanding). If the market price of our common stock declines, the percentage decline as an absolute number and as a percentage of our overall market capitalization may be greater than would occur in the absence of the reverse stock split. Furthermore, the liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares that are now outstanding following the reverse stock split. In addition, the reverse split has likely increased the number of our stockholders who own odd lots (less than 100 shares). Stockholders who hold odd lots typically will experience an increase in the cost of selling their shares, as well as possibly greater difficulty in effecting such sales. We may have substantial exposure to product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover those claims. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually at fault for causing an injury. Plenaxis, PPI-2458, Apan or future product candidates may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us, which could have a negative effect on our financial performance. The costs of product liability insurance have increased dramatically in recent years, and the availability of coverage has decreased. Although we carry insurance that we regard as reasonably adequate to protect us from potential claims, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current product liability insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our former collaboration agreements included, and some of the agreements regarding the termination of certain of those collaborations also include, an indemnification for liabilities associated with the development and commercialization of Plenaxis. If a third party, including a former collaborator, successfully sues us for any injury, or for indemnification for losses, there is no guarantee that the amount of the claim would not exceed the limit of our insurance coverage. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may interfere with our business. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to discover and develop product candidates or technologies that make our potential products and technologies obsolete or non-competitive. A biopharmaceutical company such as ours faces intense competition. We face competition from companies that are pursuing the same or similar technologies for drug discovery. We also face significant competition from organizations that are pursuing drugs that would compete with the product candidates we are now developing or may pursue in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully against these organizations, which include many large and well-financed and experienced pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic institutions and government-based agencies. These entities may have greater financial resources and more experience than we do in discovering and developing drugs, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. In addition, academic, government and industry-based research is intense, resulting in considerable competition in obtaining qualified research personnel, submitting patent filings for protection of intellectual property rights and establishing strategic corporate alliances. 21 Our investigational compound, PPI-2458, and any other potential products in research or development, will face competition from other products. Many companies are developing or market products for the treatment of cancer, inflammation and autoimmune disorders. We are currently enrolling patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and solid tumors in our phase 1 trial for PPI-2458. We are competing with many other companies that are conducting clinical trials in these indications. We may not be able to accrue patients to our trial at the same pace as our competitors. Even if we are able to successfully complete our clinical trials of PPI-2458 and gain regulatory approval to market the product, we will face competition from a broad range of therapeutics available for the treatment of cancer. We also expect to encounter competition from other companies with technologies similar to our technologies. For example, if we are unable to obtain adequate patent protection for our DirectSelect technology, another company could offer drug discovery capabilities that directly compete with our capabilities or could attempt to block our ability to practice our technology. Given our strategic focus on forming partnerships with respect to our DirectSelect technology, we are also dependent upon the extent to which pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies continue to collaborate with outside companies to obtain drug discovery expertise and our ability to establish and maintain partnerships with such companies. We also face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for such collaborative arrangements, and technological and other developments by our competitors may make it more difficult for us to establish such relationships. The success or continued success of our competitors in any of these efforts may adversely affect our ability to further enhance and refine and partner on favorable terms our DirectSelect technology, to develop, partner on favorable terms and commercialize PPI-2458 or other future product candidates, to license or sell Plenaxis in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, and to ultimately attain and maintain profitability. If we are unable to obtain and enforce valid patents, we could lose any competitive advantage we may have. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our technologies and potential products. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode any competitive advantage we may have. For example, if we are unable to obtain adequate patent protection for our DirectSelect technology, another party could offer drug discovery capabilities that directly compete with our capabilities or could attempt to block our ability to practice our technology. Additionally, if we lose our patent protection for Plenaxis, another party could produce and market the compound in direct competition with a potential licensor or purchaser of our Plenaxis assets, which would adversely affect our ability to dispose of our Plenaxis assets in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Some foreign countries lack rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights and do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States. Many companies have had difficulty protecting their proprietary rights in certain foreign countries. Patent positions are sometimes uncertain and usually involve complex legal and factual questions. We can protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We currently own or have exclusively licensed 30 issued United States patents and 98 granted foreign patents. We have applied, and will continue to apply, for patents covering both our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. Others may challenge our patent applications or our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, any issued patents on our own inventions, or those licensed from third parties, may not provide us with adequate protection, or others may challenge the validity of, or seek to narrow or circumvent, these patents. Third-party patents may impair or block our ability to conduct our business. Additionally, third parties may independently develop products similar to our products, duplicate our unpatented products, or design around any patented products we develop. 22 If we are unable to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, we could lose any competitive advantage we may have. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and security measures to protect our confidential and proprietary information. These measures may not adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If these measures do not adequately protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and we could lose any competitive advantage we may have. In addition, others may independently develop similar proprietary information or techniques, which could impair any competitive advantage we may have. If our technologies, processes or products conflict with the patents or other intellectual property rights of competitors, universities or others, we could have to engage in costly litigation and be unable to commercialize those products. Our technologies, processes, product or product candidates may give rise to claims that they infringe patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. A third party could force us to pay damages, stop our use of these technologies or processes, or stop our manufacturing or marketing of the affected products by bringing a legal action against us for infringement. In addition, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to use the technologies or processes or to manufacture or market the affected products, and we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that significant litigation will continue in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources. Even if legal actions were meritless, defending a lawsuit could take significant time, be expensive and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. If third parties terminate our licenses, our efforts to license or sell Plenaxis to a third party could be adversely affected. We license some of our technology from third parties. Termination of our licenses could require us to delay or discontinue our plan to license or sell Plenaxis to a third party. If Advanced Research and Technology Institute, Inc., the assignee of Indiana University Foundation, terminated our license with them due to a breach by us of the terms of that license, the likelihood of our licensing or selling Plenaxis to a third party on acceptable terms, or at all, would be materially diminished. We cannot assure investors that we would be able to license substitute technology in the future. Our inability to do so could impair our ability to conduct our business because we may lack the technology, or the necessary rights to technology, required to develop and commercialize our potential products. We are a defendant in purported class action securities lawsuits regarding the adequacy of our public disclosure which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. As described in detail in this report under Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” in December 2004 and January 2005, the Company, Chairman and (now former) Chief Executive Officer Malcolm Gefter, President and (now former) Chief Operating Officer Kevin F. McLaughlin, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Edward C. English, and former President and Chief Operating Officer William K. Heiden, were named as defendants in three purported class action securities lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The complaints were consolidated into one action in April 2005. In August 2005, lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. The lead plaintiffs generally allege securities fraud during the period from November 25, 2003 through December 6, 2004. The consolidated amended complaint purports to assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and alleges that the Company and the individually named defendants made materially false and misleading public statements concerning the Company’s business and financial results, particularly relating to statements regarding the commercialization of Plenaxis, thereby allegedly causing plaintiffs to purchase the Company’s securities at artificially inflated prices. In September 2005, we filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs’ consolidated amended 23 complaint. In October 2005, lead plaintiffs filed an opposition to our motion to dismiss and the defendants filed a reply on November 14, 2005. In January 2006, the Court heard oral argument on the motion to dismiss and took the matter under advisement. Management believes that the allegations against the Company are without merit, and the Company intends to vigorously defend against the plaintiffs’ claims. As this litigation is in an early stage, management is unable to predict its outcome or its ultimate effect, if any, on the Company’s financial condition. However, we expect that the costs and expenses related to this litigation may be significant. Our current director and officer liability insurance policies (which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, also provide “entity coverage” for the Company for this litigation) provide that the Company is responsible for the first $2.5 million of such costs and expenses. Also, a judgment in or settlement of these actions could exceed our insurance coverage. Accordingly, if we are not successful in defending these actions, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, whether or not we are successful, the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in running our business. Pharmaceutical companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations and there is no assurance that if we were to be involved in any such lawsuits or investigation, that our defense would be successful. Pharmaceutical companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations including, in particular, claims asserting violations of the Federal False Claim Act, Anti-Kickback Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act or other violations in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement, and claims under state laws, including state anti-kickback and fraud laws. Similar actions, investigations and claims may also be brought or arise under comparable foreign laws. Public companies may also be the subject of certain other types of claims, including those related to environmental matters. There is no assurance that if we were to be involved in any such lawsuits or investigation, that we would be successful in defending ourselves or in asserting our rights. Government investigations of these sorts of issues are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome, and generate negative publicity. If our previous promotional activities with respect to Plenaxis were found to be in violation of the law, we could possibly face significant fines and penalties. In addition, we and our senior officers could be civilly or criminally prosecuted, potentially resulting in our exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and any claims relating to the handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials, which may pose health risks. In addition, the health risks associated with accidental exposure to Plenaxis include temporary impotence or infertility and harmful effects on pregnant women. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge from hazardous materials and any resultant injury. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Compliance with health and safety and environmental laws and regulations is necessary and expensive. Current or future health and safety and environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We may be required to pay fines, penalties or damages in the event of noncompliance or the exposure of individuals to hazardous materials. From time to time, third-parties have also worked with hazardous materials in connection with our agreements with them. We have agreed to indemnify our present and former collaborators in some circumstances against damages and other liabilities arising out of development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. 24 Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue. These developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. The market price of our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: · our ability to enter into partnerships for our DirectSelect drug discovery technology and our product candidate, PPI-2458, and the timing and terms of such partnerships; · the success rate of our discovery efforts, particularly utilizing our DirectSelect drug discovery technology, and progress or set backs in our clinical trials; · our ability to identify and complete, and our announcement of, the disposition of our Plenaxis assets; · failure or delay by third-party manufacturers in performing their supply obligations or disputes or litigation regarding those obligations; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · adverse outcomes with respect to the pending purported shareholder class action against us; · developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including claims of infringement, interference or litigation against us or our licensors; · announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry in general; · changes in government regulation of the pharmaceutical or medical industry; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · sales of large blocks of our common stock; · changes in accounting principles; and · the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of the securities of biotechnology companies, particularly companies like ours with limited product revenues and without earnings, have been highly volatile, and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. 25 We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: · the timing of partnerships relating to our DirectSelect drug discovery technology and our PPI-2458 program resulting in revenues; · the timing of a license or sale transaction relating to Plenaxis resulting in the commercialization of the product in Europe and other territories and in revenues to us; and · the timing and level of expenses related to our other research and clinical development programs. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to affirm the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring many public companies, including the Company, to include in their annual reports on Form 10-K a report of management, based on its assessment of the company’s internal control over financial reporting, as to the effectiveness of such internal control as of the end of the most recent fiscal year. In addition, under these rules, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must audit and report on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of such fiscal year end. Our management reported, based on its assessment, that as of December 31, 2004 our internal control over financial reporting was effective, and our independent registered public accounting firm provided us with an unqualified report as to management’s assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. These reports were included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. Since we are no longer an “accelerated filer” under rules recently promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we are not required to include in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 such a report of management based on its assessment, or a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on management’s assessment and the effectiveness, of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. However, under current transition rules we will be required to include such reports in our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2007 and for subsequent years, and we cannot assure investors that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide such reports, or that such reports will be unqualified, as of December 31, 2007 or subsequent year-ends. In this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws, our rights agreement and certain provisions of Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. Also, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit or delay large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. In addition, the rights issued under our rights agreement may be a substantial deterrent to a person acquiring 10% or more of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. 26 These provisions in our charter and by-laws, rights agreement and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. If we engage in an acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses, or acquire or in-license products or technologies, that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We currently have no commitments or agreements for any acquisitions. If we do undertake any transaction of this sort, the process of integrating an acquired business, or an acquired or in-licensed product or technology, may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any transaction of this sort. To the extent we issue stock in a transaction, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted. Transactions of this kind could also cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 