Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company has experienced recurring losses from operations, has failed to achieve certain debt covenants in its senior secured revolving credit and term loan agreement and must achieve significant improvements in its operating performance in order to meet certain future debt covenants. As a result, the report issued by Quaker's independent registered public accounting firm on the Company's Fiscal 2005 financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.) Accordingly, an investment in shares of the Company's Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition, the Company's operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. Such factors include: We may breach one or more of the financial covenants in our 2005 Credit Agreement. On May 18, 2005, the Company, entered into a five-year, $70.0 million senior secured revolving credit and term loan agreement with three banks (the “2005 Credit Agreement”), reduced by Amendment Nos. 3 and 4 (as hereinafter defined) to $50.0 million. Since May of 2005, the 2005 Credit Agreement has been amended four times to relax the financial covenants in the Agreement to reflect changes in the Company's anticipated financial results, with the most recent amendments made in February and March 2006. If the Company is unable to comply with the financial covenants in the 2005 Credit Agreement in the future, there can be no assurance that the banks will agree to any further amendments needed, and in the absence of such amendments, the Company would be in default and our lenders would have the right to accelerate payment of the outstanding balance of our loan, which as of March 29, 2006, was approximately $38.1 million. If our lenders were to exercise this right, it is highly unlikely that we would be able to repay the debt from existing resources. Under these circumstances, we would expect to seek alternative financing arrangements that would enable us to repay the debt. There can be no assurance as to when or whether we would be able to complete such an arrangement on terms acceptable to us or at all. We need to carefully manage our cash. Our ability to meet our current obligations depends on our access to trade credit, our operating cash flow and our ability to borrow under the terms of our 2005 Credit Agreement, with our ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement a function of our Eligible Accounts Receivable, Eligible Inventory, Availability and Availability Reserve, as those terms are defined in the 2005 Credit Agreement. Increases in the Availability Reserve such as those reflected in Amendment Nos. 1 and 4 to the 2005 Credit Agreement, reduce Availability and thus reduce our ability to borrow and our access to cash. In like manner, decreases in the Availability Reserve such as those reflected in Amendment No. 2 to the 2005 Credit Agreement, increase Availability and thus increase our ability to borrow and our access to cash. We need to manage our inventory levels, accounts receivable, accounts payable and capital expenditures to provide adequate resources to meet our anticipated operating needs, maximize our cash flow and reduce our need to borrow under the 2005 Credit Agreement. Our cash position may be adversely affected by factors we cannot completely control, including but not limited to, a reduction in incoming order rates, production rates, sales, and accounts receivable, as well as delays in receipt of payment of accounts receivable and limitations of trade credit. On March 22, 2006, the Company and the other parties to the 2005 Credit Agreement entered into Waiver and Amendment No. 4, effective as of March 22, 2006, to the 2005 Credit Agreement (“Amendment No. 4”) to (i) waive certain “Specified Defaults” arising out of the Company's failure to comply with the two (2) consecutive month minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant for the two month period ending at the end of Fiscal February and the Company's anticipated failure to deliver audited financial statements without qualification or expression of concern as to the uncertainty of the Parent to continue as a going concern within ninety (90) days of the end of Fiscal 2005, (ii) add a new provision with respect to the Company's retention of an Additional Financial Consultant (as defined in Amendment No. 4) to perform certain specific services set forth in Amendment No. 4, (iii) increase the Availability Reserve from $7.5 million to $8.5 million during the period commencing on March 22, 2006 and ending on May 1, 2006 (advances under the Revolving Credit Facility are limited to a formula based on Quaker's accounts receivable and inventory minus the Availability Reserve), (iv) eliminate the two (2) consecutive month minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant for the two month period ending 13 at the end of Fiscal March, (v) change the amortization schedule on the Term Loan from quarterly to monthly, effective June 1, 2006, (vi) require that the net proceeds of any asset sales be applied to the remaining scheduled installments of principal under the Term Loan in the inverse order of their maturity, rather than pro rata, (vii) by no later than May 12, 2006, provide the lenders with weekly 13-week cash flow forecasts and a revised 2006 business plan, (viii) require that all cash received by the Company be applied daily to the reduction of the Company's obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility, requiring the Company to re-borrow funds more frequently to meet its liquidity requirements, (ix) end the Company's ability to request, convert or continue and LIBOR Rate Loans, and (x) require the Company to reimburse not only the Administrative Agent but also the other lenders for all out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the preparation of Amendment No. 4 and the on-going administration of the Loan Documents. In addition, the Company also agreed to pay an amendment fee of $125,000 in exchange for the amendment and a $2.5 million reduction in the Total Commitment (as defined in the 2005 Credit Agreement,) bringing the Total Commitment down to $30.0 million, effective March, 2006. The changes made to the 2005 Credit Agreement by Amendment No. 4, taken together, reduce Quaker's access to cash and represent an unfavorable change in the terms on which Quaker is able to borrow funds to meet its cash requirements. This, coupled with the “going concern” explanatory paragraph included in the report of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm with respect to Quaker's Fiscal 2005 financial statements, has placed further stress on Quaker's ability to effectively execute its cash management program, including the terms of its trade credit arrangements. As of March 30, 2006, there were $37.4 million of loans outstanding under the 2005 Credit Agreement, including the remaining $18.0 million Term Loan component, and approximately $4.6 million of letters of credit. Pursuant to Amendment No. 4, unused availability under the 2005 Credit Agreement fluctuates daily. On March 30, 2006, unused availability was $0.9 million, net of the $8.5 million Availability Reserve, which includes the $1.0 million increase in the Availability Reserve required by Amendment No. 4. Our cash resources and our ability to borrow under our 2005 Credit Agreement may not be adequate to fund our operations. We have in the past generated significant financial losses. If we generate significant financial losses in the future, our cash resources and our ability to borrow under the 2005 Credit Agreement may not be adequate to fund our operations. Based on current assessments, we will need to raise capital in order to execute our restructuring plan and to support our product and market development efforts and other operational needs. This investment is critical in order to maintain and grow our business. We may seek to raise additional capital in any number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing. If we are able to borrow funds, we likely will be obligated to make periodic interest or other debt service payments, and the terms of this debt may impose burdensome restrictions on our ability to operate our business. If we seek financing through the sale of equity securities, our current stockholders may suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. Additionally, due to our history of significant losses, we are not certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available. If we are unable to raise capital on terms and conditions that are favorable to us, our business could be negatively affected, which could cause our stock price to decline. Specifically, if we are not successful in raising capital, we will have to take various actions that may include, but not be limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for new product and new market development initiatives and further reductions in our overhead expenses. These actions, should they become necessary, will probably result in a significant reduction in the size of our operations. We may not be able to pay off or refinance the debt obligations that fall due in fiscal 2006 through 2010. The Company has substantial debt obligations that fall due between 2006 and 2010 and which the Company would be required to pay off or refinance. There can be no assurance that the Company will have sufficient cash to satisfy these obligations or that the Company will be successful in obtaining new financing, or that, if obtained, such financing would be on terms and conditions favorable to us. Our restructuring efforts are creating short-term costs that may not be offset by increased efficiencies. In connection with management's execution of Quaker's restructuring plan, we have implemented a number of manufacturing realignment and cost savings programs and we anticipate the 14 need to implement similar programs in the future. Such programs have and can include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures and have and may result in a decrease in near-term earnings until the expected cost reductions are achieved. In addition, certain products may also be shifted from domestic manufacturing to offshore sourcing. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly as anticipated and the expected cost reductions may not be achieved in full or at all. We are incurring substantial costs in connection with our restructuring efforts, including severance obligations, moving costs, advisor fees (including fees incurred in connection with the financial consulting services we are contractually obligated to seek pursuant to Amendment No. 4 to the 2005 Credit Agreement) and lease obligations for unused property. Though we anticipate that the restructuring will ultimately result in reduced general and administrative expenses and more efficient corporate operations, we can give no assurance that we will be successful in redefining our cost and operational structures in the near term. If we are not successful, we may not recoup our investment, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Our sales have been declining, and we have reported operating losses in each of the six consecutive fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2005. We may not be able to restore the Company to profitability. On a comparative basis, our sales have declined quarter-to-quarter in each of the six consecutive quarters ended December 31, 2005. Primarily as a result of our declining sales, we also have reported operating losses in each of the six consecutive fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2005. Quaker has a restructuring plan in place that is intended to restore the Company to profitability. The key elements of this restructuring plan include: (i) stabilizing revenues from our U.S.-based residential fabric business by concentrating our marketing efforts on those markets least sensitive to imported products; (ii) reducing our operating costs enough to compensate for the drop we have experienced in our revenues over the past few years; (iii) selling excess assets; (iv) developing strategically important commercial relationships with a limited number of carefully chosen offshore fabric mills so that we can recapture the share of the domestic residential market that we have lost over the past few years to foreign imports; and (v) generating additional profitable sales by penetrating the outdoor and contract fabric markets and expanding our specialty yarns business. Successfully executing our restructuring plan will require considerable operational, management, financial, sales and marketing, supply chain, information systems and design expertise involving the need to continually recruit, train and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will have the resources, including the human resources, needed to manage execution of its restructuring plan effectively, or maintain its current sales levels. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute our restructuring plan and restore the Company to profitability. We may not be able to effectively manage the outsourcing arrangements we are putting in place with non-U.S. fabric manufacturers. A critical element of our restructuring plan calls for the Company to increase its offshore (import) capabilities to provide flexibility in product programs and pricing to meet competitive pressures. Offshore (import) sourcing is subject to, among other things, political instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located and possible delays due to managing at a distance and shipping delays and interruptions. Either could make it more difficult for the Company to service its customers. Other risks include the imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports; duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, all of which could increase costs and decrease earnings. Management of these new outsourcing arrangements will place significant increased demand on the Company's operational, managerial and administrative resources, including the resources allocated by the Company to customs matters and other compliance issues related to our participation in the global marketplace as both a buyer and a seller. These increased demands could cause the Company to operate its core domestic residential fabric business and Fall River-based manufacturing operations less effectively, which in turn could cause a deterioration in our profitability. Our increased reliance on offshore fabric sourcing arrangements could adversely affect our ability to service customers which could result in a decrease in our sales. Successful execution of our restructuring plan will necessarily entail an increase in our involvement in the global upholstery fabric market, including but not limited to Quaker's importation into the U.S. market of a significant amount 15 of finished fabrics in both roll and kit form from various foreign sources, particularly China and South Korea. The roll goods and furniture kits we source outside the U.S. will then be sold to both our U.S. domestic furniture manufacturing customers and to our international customers around the world. Disruptions to our supply chain could result in the late arrival or unavailability of finished goods for resale, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and having a material adverse effect on Quaker's reputation, our sales and marketing initiatives and our future revenues. Asset write-offs required in connection with the execution of our restructuring plan are likely to result in a decrease in earnings. Accounting rules require that the Company's tangible assets, such as real estate and machinery and equipment, be tested for impairment immediately upon the occurrence of certain events. The Company has substantial tangible assets, including significant investments in special-purpose machinery and equipment useful only in the production of certain types of yarns or fabrics. Changes in the Company's product mix or in the various internally-produced components used in the production of the Company's novelty yarns or fabrics could result in the idling of some or all of this equipment, requiring the Company to test for impairment of these assets. Depending upon the outcome of these tests, the Company could be required to write-down all or a portion of these assets, resulting in a corresponding reduction in Quaker's earnings and net worth. During 2005, this testing process resulted in the need for Quaker to write-off approximately $10.2 million of buildings, machinery and equipment determined to be impaired in accordance with these accounting rules. Further loss of market share due to competition would result in further decreases in sales and earnings. The residential upholstery fabric manufacturing business is highly competitive and fragmented. As a result, we face significant competition from numerous competitors, many of which are larger and better capitalized. The Company competes with many other manufacturers, including manufacturers located in low labor cost countries, such as China and India, where their lower cost structures provide them with a significant competitive advantage, particularly when it comes to the production of commodity products for the promotional end of the U.S. domestic residential market. The highly competitive nature of the industry means the Company is constantly subject to the risk of losing market share to those privately held competitors who have lower sales and profitability targets. As a result, the Company may not be able to maintain or to raise the prices of its products in response to inflationary pressures, such as increasing labor, materials and energy costs. Also due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, the Company may not be able to differentiate its products (through styling, finish and other construction techniques) from those of its competitors. Our revenues could continue to be adversely affected by low-cost imported merchandise. Competition in our industry is intense, from both domestic fabric mills and fabric mills located outside the U.S. manufacturing products for sale into the U.S. market. In addition, there has been a recent and significant increase in imports of both furniture coverings, in both roll and “kit” form, and fully upholstered furniture, particularly leather and microdenier faux suede products, into the U.S. market. Industry data indicates that sales of imported fabrics in both roll and “kit” form represented approximately 42% of total U.S. fabric sales during 2004, up from 29% in 2003 and 11% in 2002. This has resulted in diminished demand for our products, had a deflationary effect on pricing in our industry, reduced our ability to increase our selling prices to pass cost increases on to our customers, and required us in some cases to reduce our selling prices. Failure to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner could result in a decrease in future sales and earnings. Competitive factors in the upholstery fabric business include product design, styling, price, customer service and quality. The Company's products are predominantly Jacquard and plain woven fabrics. The Company's fabric products compete with other furniture coverings, including leather, suede, microdenier “faux suede,” prints, tufts, flocks and velvets, for consumer acceptance. Residential furniture is a highly styled product subject to fashion trends and geographic consumer tastes. Consumer tastes in upholstered furniture coverings are cyclical and change over time, sometimes rapidly, with various coverings gaining or losing share depending on changes in home furnishing trends and the amount of retail floor space allocated to various upholstered furniture product categories at any given time. For example, leather furniture and furniture covered with microdenier faux suede products, primarily imported in roll and “kit” form from low labor cost 16 countries, particularly China, have enjoyed growing popularity over the past few years, primarily at the expense of woven fabrics, such as the Jacquards and other woven fabrics Quaker manufactures, and in some retail furniture stores, these products may occupy as much as 50% of the floor space allocated to upholstered furniture products. If the Company is unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner it may lose sales and be faced with excess inventory (both raw materials and finished goods). Disposal of excess inventory may result in a decrease in sales and earnings. Quaker is very dependent on a limited number of raw material suppliers. The Company is dependent upon outside suppliers for all of its raw material needs, including dyeing services, and is subject to price increases and delays in receiving these materials and services. The raw materials are predominantly petrochemical products and their prices fluctuate with changes in the underlying petrochemical market in general. Future price levels of raw materials will depend on world-wide supply and demand conditions, the general inflation rate and overall economic conditions. During 2005, the Company experienced significant increases in certain raw material prices, which it was not able to pass fully through to its customers and which contributed to a significant reduction in the Company's 2005 gross margin. Similar conditions in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, a number of our domestic suppliers have been hurt by reduced demand related to the rapid increase in imported fabrics into the U.S. market. Although other sources of supply are available, the Company currently procures approximately 40% of its raw materials from Unifi, Inc. and Amoco Fabric and Fibers Company (“Amoco”), and Amoco is the sole supplier of a filament yarn used in the Company's chenille manufacturing operations. A shortage or interruption in the supply of any critical component could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are importing some critical raw materials from foreign suppliers. During 2005, approximately 8% of the acrylic fibers and yarns that go into the upholstery fabrics and novelty yarns we make was sourced outside the U.S. Changes in exchange rates could affect the price the Company pays for these raw materials, resulting in the Company's need to either increase the selling prices of its fabrics and yarns—which could, of course, result in lower volumes—or accept lower gross margins on their sale. In addition, any interruption in the supply of these components could result in serious disruptions in our production operations, impair our ability to fill customer orders and, therefore, have a material adverse affect on our sales, profitability and financial condition. Any increase in energy costs is likely to erode our margins. The Company's production operations are heavily reliant upon a consistent supply of energy, including electricity to power the Company's manufacturing equipment, natural gas to generate the heat used in Quaker's finishing operations and oil to heat the Company's office areas. A significant shortage or interruption in the availability of these energy sources would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial performance. Beginning in the latter part of 2000, the Company began to experience rising energy costs. To help provide the Company with greater stability and to reduce the impact of rising energy costs, during 2001, Quaker entered into a contract to purchase its electrical power requirements at a fixed price through December 2004. Upon expiration of this agreement, the Company began purchasing 60% of its electricity requirements at the default rate and the balance at an “hour to hour” rate. The Company experienced a significant increase in its energy costs during 2005 and remains vulnerable to further energy price increases with respect to both its pure energy costs and its raw materials prices. A significant portion of our annual revenues comes from foreign sales. In 2005, foreign sales totaled $29.8 million or 14.5% the Company's gross fabric sales. A reduction in the volume of international trade, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, political instability or an economic downturn in any of the export markets important to the Company, or any material restrictions on international trade could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Company's 2005 gross fabric sales to customers in four foreign countries were $22.3 million in the aggregate, representing 74.7% of the Company's total foreign sales and 10.8% of the Company's gross fabric sales. There can be no assurance that economic, political or other events in any foreign market will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. 17 Business failures of large customers could result in a decrease in the Company's future sales and earnings. Although the Company has no single customer which alone represents 10% or more of its total annual sales, the possibility of business failures of large customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and financial condition and could result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings in that these sales are difficult to replace. Our bad debt experience may differ materially from our estimates. Substantially all of the Company's trade accounts receivable are from manufacturers of residential furniture. Management monitors the payment status and periodically performs credit evaluations of these customers. However, changes in creditworthiness can occur rapidly and unanticipated losses from trade accounts receivable could occur in excess of the outstanding allowance for losses. Therefore, there can be no assurance that total losses from uncollectible accounts will not exceed the allowance. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. An economic downturn could result in a decrease in the Company's sales and earnings. Overall demand levels in the upholstery fabric industry are a function of overall demand for household furniture. For most individuals, a decision to buy upholstered furniture represents both a discretionary purchase and a relatively large expenditure. As a result, demand is affected by general economic conditions, population demographics, new household formations, consumer confidence and disposable income levels, sales of new and existing homes and interest rates. In general, aggregate demand is higher during periods of economic strength and lower during periods of economic weakness or uncertainty. Adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are very dependent on our computer systems. The effective functioning of Quaker's management information, or Enterprise Resource Planning, system is critical to the Company's ability to manage both its administrative and manufacturing operations. Any significant performance problem with this system would have a material adverse effect on Quaker's ability to manage its accounting, order processing, materials purchasing and inventory management, scheduling and shipping and invoicing functions, resulting in significant downtime in Quaker's production areas, inefficient production, delays in filling and invoicing orders, and shortfalls in our operating results. A successful product liability claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance coverage would result in a decrease in earnings and any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against the Company may result in a decrease in sales and earnings. The Company faces the business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of its products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of its products prove to be defective, the Company may be required to recall or redesign such products. The Company maintains insurance against product liability claims, but there can be no assurance that such coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to it, or at all, or that such coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. We must comply with a number of governmental regulations applicable to our business operations. In May 1998, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) began reviewing whether to propose a standard to address the hazards associated with small open flame ignitions of upholstered furniture. The Company is unable to predict when or if any such standard will be adopted and the effect of any standard would have on the Company. Any requirement to treat fabrics for upholstered furniture with flame retardant chemicals would increase the Company's production costs. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to pass any of such increased costs on to its customers. In addition, any such requirement could adversely affect the aesthetics of the Company's products resulting in lower demand. In January 2006, the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) launched a global stewardship program inviting companies to reduce PFOA (Perfluorooctanoic acid) releases and its presence in products by 95% by no later than 2010 and to work toward the elimination of these sources of exposure no later than 2015 due to the possibility that at some point in the future the EPA could determine PFOA to be a likely carcinogen. Certain of the fabric finishes used by the Company to improve the stain resistance properties of Quaker's products may release trace amounts of PFOA as a result of the breakdown of fluorotelomers over time. Although studies done by DuPont, one of the Company's fabric finish suppliers, indicate “the use of consumer articles based on fluorotelomers would 18 not result in any detectable exposure to PFOA,” Quaker is currently reviewing the actions it will take to reduce its usage of these finishes in a manner consistent with the EPA's stewardship program including, but not limited to, the use of alternate suppliers manufacturing fabric finishes not involving the use of fluorotelomers. It is not clear whether the use of alternate suppliers will result in any increased costs to the Company. In the event of any cost increases, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to pass such cost increases on to its customers. If it is unable to, the Company may be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. The Company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. The Company's facilities are located in industrial areas, and, therefore, there is the possibility of incurring environmental liabilities as a result of historical operations at the Company's sites. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or leased properties, properties owned by third parties, and properties currently owned or leased by the Company. Environmental liabilities can also be asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. In addition, under the Comprehensive Environmental Resources Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), and analogous state statutes, liability can be imposed for the disposal of waste at sites targeted for cleanup by federal and state regulatory authorities. Liability under CERCLA is strict as well as joint and several. Further, certain of the Company's manufacturing areas are subject to change in the future and any failure by the Company to comply with present or future laws or regulations could subject it to future liabilities or interruption of production which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Changes in environmental regulations could restrict the Company's ability to expand its facilities or require the Company to incur substantial unexpected other expenses to comply with such regulations. The Company has accrued reserves for environmental matters based on information presently available. However, there can be no assurance that these reserves will be adequate or that the costs associated with environmental matters will not increase in the future. Dependence on Key Personnel. The Company's success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of the Company's key employees. The loss of services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Certain anti-takeover provisions and preferred stock could result in a decrease in a potential acquirer's valuation of the Company's common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and the Company's Certificate of Incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. Also, Quaker's Certificate of Incorporation allows the Company to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Such issuances could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company. Further, the Board has adopted a stockholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), the purpose of which is to protect the stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of the Company that do not offer a fair price to all stockholders. The Rights Plan will not apply to certain acquisitions by Nortex Holdings, a principal stockholder of the Company, and certain of its transferees. In addition, under the terms of the 2005 Credit Agreement, a Change in Control would constitute an Event of Default, as those terms are defined in the 2005 Credit Agreement. And finally, the Company is a party to change in control agreements with each of Quaker's officers. In the event of a Termination of Employment in connection with a Change in Control, as those terms are defined in the agreements, the Company would be obligated to make certain payments, expressed as a percentage of cash compensation, to the terminated officer or officers These provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or dissuading a potential acquirer from acquiring outstanding shares of Common Stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current trading price. The price of a share of the Company's common stock could fall below the level required by the Company's listing agreement with the NASDAQ Stock Market. The Company's common stock is traded on the NASDAQ stock market. During 2005, the share price ranged from a low of $2.11 and a high of $5.99 and the Company's common stock is “thinly-traded.” The possibility exists that there could be a further decrease in the share price, particularly if there is further deterioration in the Company's 19 financial performance. If the price of a share of the Company's common stock were to fall below $1.00 for a period of thirty (30) days, the Company would be in violation of its listing agreement with NASDAQ and the Company's stock would be “delisted,” resulting in a further reduction in the liquidity of an investment in the Company's common stock. Forward-Looking Statements: Statements contained in this report that are prefaced with the words “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “continue,” “estimate,” “project,” “seek,” “plan,” “intend,” “designed,” “believe,” variations of such words and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements regarding events, conditions and financial trends that may affect the Company's future plans of operations, business strategy, results of operations and financial position. These statements are based on the Company's current expectations and estimates as to prospective events and circumstances about which the Company can give no firm assurance. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made. As it is not possible to predict every new factor that may emerge, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of the Company's actual future financial condition or results. The forward-looking statements in this report, like any forward-looking statements, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or anticipated. Such risks and uncertainties include, in addition to those discussed above, product demand and market acceptance of the Company's products; regulatory uncertainties; the effect of economic conditions; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including, but not limited to, imported furniture and furniture coverings sold into the U.S. domestic market; foreign currency exchange rates; changes in customers' ordering patterns; the effect of uncertainties in markets outside the U.S. in which the Company operates; changes from anticipated levels of sales, whether due to future global, national or regional economic and competitive conditions, customer acceptance of existing and new products, or otherwise; economically effective foreign sourcing of products; the price at which a property is sold, cash and non-cash charges incurred in connection therewith, and the timing of any such sale; pending or future litigation; pricing pressures due to excess capacity; raw material cost increases; transportation cost increases; energy cost increases; the inability of a major customer to meet its obligations; loss of significant customers in connection with a merger, acquisition, disposition, bankruptcy or otherwise; actions of current or new competitors; tax rate changes; interest rate changes; future business decisions and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of the Company. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date on which the forward-looking statement is made. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 