ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These risk factors include the following: Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. The financial services industry has recently been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a significant and prolonged decline in liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, particularly in financial institutions like ours. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of the largest financial institutions in the U.S. and global marketplaces. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and often have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. In 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity, remained very limited. Overall, during fiscal 2008 and for the foreseeable future, the business environment has been extremely adverse for our business and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Until they do, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected. General business, economic and political conditions may significantly affect our earnings. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, recession, unemployment, real estate values, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which we conduct business. If any of these conditions worsen, our business and earnings could be adversely affected. For example, business and economic conditions that negatively impact household incomes could decrease the demand for our home loans and increase the number of customers who become delinquent or default on their loans; or, a rising interest rate environment could decrease the demand for loans. In addition, our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States, and the perception of those policies by the financial markets. The Federal Reserve’s policies influence both the financial markets and the size and liquidity of the mortgage origination market, which significantly impacts the earnings of our mortgage lending operation and the value of our investment in MSRs and other retained interests. The Federal Reserve’s policies and perceptions of those policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our 17 Table of Contents interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies or perceptions are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services that are critical to our business. If one or more of our institutional counterparties defaults on its obligations to us or becomes insolvent, it could have a material adverse affect our earnings, liquidity, capital position and financial condition. We face the risk that one or more of our institutional counterparties may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with third-party providers of credit enhancement on the mortgage assets that we hold in our investment portfolio, including mortgage insurers and financial guarantors, issuers of securities held on our consolidated statement of financial condition, and derivatives counterparties. The challenging mortgage and credit market conditions have adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, the liquidity and financial condition of a number of our institutional counterparties, particularly those whose businesses are concentrated in the mortgage industry. One or more of these institutions may default in its obligations to us for a number of reasons, such as changes in financial condition that affect their credit ratings, a reduction in liquidity, operational failures or insolvency. Several of our institutional counterparties have experienced ratings downgrades and liquidity constraints. These and other key institutional counterparties may become subject to serious liquidity problems that, either temporarily or permanently, negatively affect the viability of their business plans or reduce their access to funding sources. The financial difficulties that a number of our institutional counterparties are currently experiencing may negatively affect the ability of these counterparties to meet their obligations to us and the amount or quality of the products or services they provide to us. A default by a counterparty with significant obligations to us could result in significant financial losses to us and could have a material adverse affect our ability to conduct our operations, which would adversely affect our earnings, liquidity, capital position and financial condition. In addition, a default by a counterparty may require us to obtain a substitute counterparty which may not exist in this economic climate and which may, as a result, cause us to default on our related financial obligations. Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit or other relationships between and among institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as banks with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. If we cannot effectively manage the impact of the volatility of interest rates our earnings could be adversely affected. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to maximize the benefit and minimize the adverse effect of changes in interest rates on our earnings over an extended period of time. In managing these risks, we look at, among other things, yield curves and hedging strategies. As such, our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term because the market value of our assets and related hedges may be significantly impacted either positively or negatively by unanticipated variations in interest rates. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans made to others and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our profitability also depends in substantial part on the volume of loan originations and the related fees received in our mortgage banking operations. Our net interest margin and our volume of mortgage originations will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest margin and the mortgage origination volumes for the Bank and for other financial institutions have widened 18 Table of Contents and narrowed in response to these and other factors. Our goal has been to structure our asset and liability management strategies to maximize the benefit of changes in market interest rates on our net interest margin and revenues related to mortgage origination volume. However, we can not give any assurance that a sudden or significant change in prevailing interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There exists a natural counterbalance of our loan production and servicing operations. Increasing long-term interest rates may decrease our mortgage loan originations and sales. Generally, the volume of mortgage loan originations is inversely related to the level of long-term interest rates. During periods of low long-term interest rates, a significant number of our customers may elect to refinance their mortgages (i.e., pay off their existing higher rate mortgage loans with new mortgage loans obtained at lower interest rates). Our profitability levels and those of others in the mortgage banking industry have generally been strongest during periods of low and/or declining interest rates, as we have historically been able to sell the resulting increased volume of loans into the secondary market at a gain. We have also benefited from periods of wide spreads between short and long term interest rates. If interest rates rise after we fix a price for a loan or commitment but before we close and sell such loan, the value of the loan will decrease and the amount we receive from selling the loan may be less than its cost to originate. When interest rates fluctuate, repricing risks arise from the timing difference in the maturity and/or repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions. While such repricing mismatches are fundamental to our business, they can expose us to fluctuations in income and economic value as interest rates vary. Our interest rate risk management strategies do not completely eliminate repricing risk. A significant amount of our deposit liabilities are certificates of deposits, and these account holders may be more sensitive to the interest rate paid on their account than other depositors. There is no guarantee that in a changing rate environment we will be able to retain all of these depositors’ accounts. We also call on local municipal agencies as another source for deposit funding. While a valuable source of liquidity, we believe that municipal deposits are usually extremely rate sensitive and, therefore, prone to withdrawal if higher interest rates are offered elsewhere. Because of the interest rate sensitivity of these depositors, there is no guarantee that in a changing rate environment we will be able to retain all funds in these accounts. Changes in interest rates may cause a mismatch in our mortgage origination flow of loans, or “pipeline” and adversely affect our profitability. In our mortgage banking operation we are exposed to interest rate risk from the time we commit to an interest rate on a mortgage loan application through the time we sell or commit to sell the mortgage loan. On a daily basis, we analyze various economic and market factors to estimate the percentage of mortgage loans we expect to sell for delivery at a future date. The amount of loans that we commit to sell is based in part on our expectation of the pull-through percentage, which is the ratio of mortgage loans closed divided by the number of mortgage loans on which we have issued binding commitments (and thereby locked in the interest rate) but have not yet closed (“pipeline loans”). If interest rates change in an unanticipated fashion, the actual percentage of pipeline loans that close may differ from the projected percentage. A mismatch of commitments to fund mortgage loans and commitments to sell mortgage loans may have an adverse effect on the results of operations in any such period. For instance, we may not have made commitments to sell these additional pipeline loans and therefore may incur significant losses upon their sale if the market rate of interest is higher than the mortgage interest rate to which we committed on such additional pipeline loans. Alternatively, we may have made commitments to sell more loans than actually closed or at prices that are no longer profitable to us. Our profitability may be adversely affected to the extent our economic hedging strategy for pipeline loans is not effective. The value of our mortgage servicing rights could decline with reduction in interest rates. The market value of our mortgage loan servicing portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in interest rates which will adversely affect our earnings. When mortgage rates rise we would generally expect payoffs in our servicing portfolio to decline, which generally should result in increases to the fair value of our MSRs. When mortgage interest rates decline, mortgage loan prepayments tend to increase as customers refinance their loans. When this happens, the income stream from our current mortgage loan servicing portfolio may decline, which in turn reduces the fair value of our MSR asset. 19 Table of Contents Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage our investment in mortgage servicing rights may be ineffective to offset any adverse changes in the fair value of these assets due to changes in interest rates. We invest in MSRs to support our mortgage banking strategies and to deploy capital at acceptable returns. The value of these assets and the income they provide tend to be counter-cyclical to the changes in production volumes and gain on sale of loans that result from changes in interest rates. We also enter into derivatives to hedge our MSRs to offset changes in fair value resulting from the actual or anticipated changes in prepayments and changing interest rate environments. The primary risk associated with MSRs is that they will lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments occasioned by declining interest rates. Conversely, these assets generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than anticipated. Our hedging strategies are highly susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, among other factors. In addition, our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may incur losses that would adversely impact our earnings. We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, which estimates may prove to be incorrect and result in significant declines in valuation. A portion of our assets are carried on our consolidated statement of financial condition at fair value, including our MSRs, certain mortgage loans held for sale, trading assets, available-for-sale securities, derivatives and repossessed assets. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or internal valuation models that utilize observable market data inputs to estimate their fair value. In certain cases, observable market prices and data may not be readily available or their availability may be diminished due to market conditions. We use financial models to value certain of these assets. These models are complex and use asset specific collateral data and market inputs for interest rates. We cannot assure you that the models or the underlying assumptions will prove to be predictive and remain so over time, and therefore, actual results may differ from our models. Any assumptions we use are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and actual experience may differ from our assumptions. Different assumptions could result in significant declines in valuation, which in turn could result in significant declines in the dollar amount of assets we report on our consolidated statement of financial condition. Changes in the fair value or ratings downgrades of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity, net earnings, or regulatory capital ratios. At December 31, 2008, $1.1 billion of our securities were classified as available-for-sale. The estimated fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on market conditions. Our securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease may be recovered over the life of the securities. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, 20 Table of Contents which is consistent with our experience. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. We have, in the past, recorded other than temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. The capital that we are required to hold for regulatory purposes is impacted by, among other things, the securities ratings. Therefore, ratings downgrades on our securities may have a material adverse effect on our regulatory capital. Current and further deterioration in the housing and commercial real estate markets may lead to increased loss severities and further increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Additionally, the performance of our standby and commercial letters of credit may be adversely affected as well. Consequently, our allowance for loan losses and guarantee liability may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our reserves. Approximately 93.7% of our loans held for investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008, was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Unexpected losses may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control. As with most lending institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable and inherent losses in our loans held for our investment portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The allowance for loan losses reflects our estimate of the probable losses in our portfolio of loans at the relevant statement of financial condition date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Recently, the housing and the residential mortgage markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the loss severities of loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate owned. We also issue, from time to time, standby and commercial letters of credit for which we guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. Because the credit risk associated with these instruments is essentially the same as extending loans to customers, the continuing decline in the housing and residential mortgage market and the economy in general could adversely affect our customers which may require us to increase our guarantee liability. Such increase would have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our secondary market reserve for losses could be insufficient. We currently maintain a secondary market reserve, which is a liability on our consolidated statement of financial condition, to reflect our best estimate of expected losses that we have incurred on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. Increases to this reserve for current loan sales reduce our net gain on loan sales, with adjustments to our previous estimates 21 Table of Contents recorded as an increase or decrease to our other fees and charges. The level of the reserve reflects management’s continuing evaluation of loss experience on repurchased loans, indemnifications, recovery history, and present economic conditions, among other things. The determination of the appropriate level of the secondary market reserve inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of repurchase risks and expected losses. Both the assumptions and estimates used could change materially, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. Further, our bank regulators periodically review our secondary market reserve and may, in their sole discretion and based on their own judgment, which may differ from that of management, require us to increase the amount of the reserve through additional provisions. Such increases, if required, will have an adverse effect on our consolidated statements of financial condition and results of operations. Our home lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to resell mortgages. Currently, we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate. The profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and to sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, we are dependent upon (1) the existence of an active secondary market and (2) our ability to profitably sell loans or securities into that market. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Some of the largest participants in the secondary market, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law. Any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of such government-sponsored enterprises could, in turn, adversely affect our operations. In September 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. government. It is currently unclear whether such change will significantly and adversely affect our operations. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and other institutional and non-institutional investors. Any significant impairment of our eligibility could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity. The profitability of participating in specific programs may vary depending on a number of factors, including our administrative costs of originating and purchasing qualifying loans. Our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios carry heightened credit risk. In prior years, we have emphasized the origination of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. During 2008, we substantially curtailed our commercial lending operations. At December 31, 2008, our balance of commercial loans was $1.8 billion, which was 19.6% of loans held for investment and 12.5% of total assets. Loans collateralized by commercial real estate are generally thought to have a greater degree of credit risk than single-family residential mortgage loans and carry larger loan balances. This increased credit risk is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties, and the greater difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans collateralized by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate property. If the cash flow from, or the economic value of, the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Other commercial business loans generally have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans as well. Conversely, residential mortgage loans are generally made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment or other income, and are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may depend substantially on 22 Table of Contents the success of the business or project itself. Further, any collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. Our ability to borrow funds, maintain or increase deposits or raise capital could be limited, which could adversely affect our liquidity and earnings. Our access to external sources of financing, including deposits, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent on various factors. Many of these factors depend upon market perceptions of events that are beyond our control, such as the failure of other banks or financial institutions. Other factors are dependent upon our results of operations including, but not limited to material changes in operating margins; earnings trends and volatility; funding and liquidity management practices; financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers; the composition of the consolidated statement of financial condition and/or capital structure; geographic and business diversification; and our market share and competitive position in the business segments in which we operate. The material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of our credit or servicer ratings or a decline in our perception within the marketplace and could result in a limited ability to borrow funds, maintain or increase deposits (including custodial deposits for our agency servicing portfolio) or to raise capital. Our ability to make mortgage loans and to fund our investments and operations depends largely on our ability to secure funds on terms acceptable to us. Our primary sources of funds to meet our financing needs include loan sales and securitizations; deposits, which include custodial accounts from our agency servicing portfolio and brokered deposits and public funds; borrowings from the FHLB or other federally backed entities; borrowings from investment and commercial banks through repurchase agreements; and capital-raising activities. If we are unable to maintain any of these financing arrangements or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on any of the covenants imposed upon us by our borrowing facilities, then we may have to reduce the number of loans we are able to originate for sale in the secondary market or for our own investment or cause other negative effects to our operations. A sudden and significant reduction in loan originations that occurs as a result could adversely impact our earnings. There is no guarantee that we will able to renew or maintain our financing arrangements or deposits or that we will be able to adequately access capital markets when or if a need for additional capital arises. Our inability to realize our deferred tax assets may have a material adverse affect on our consolidated results of operations and our financial condition. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences related to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and for tax credits. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on available evidence, including assumptions about future profitability. Although we believe that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will be realized, some or all of our deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate taxable income in the future sufficient to utilize them or we enter into one or more transactions that limit our ability to realize all of our deferred tax assets. If we determine that we would not be able to realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would reduce our deferred tax asset through a charge to earnings in the period in which the determination is made. This charge could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the assumptions used to make this determination are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between our future projected operating performance and actual results. As a result, significant management judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance. We may be required to raise capital at terms that are materially adverse to our shareholders. We suffered losses in excess of $275 million and $39 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively and as a result, saw our shareholders’ equity and regulatory capital decline. During 2008 and early 2009, we raised capital at terms that significantly diluted our shareholders. As a result of the 2009 capital raise, we are 23 Table of Contents considered to be “well capitalized” by the OTS. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer additional losses or that additional capital will not otherwise be required for regulatory or other reasons. In those circumstances, we may be required to obtain additional capital to maintain our regulatory capital ratios at the “well capitalized” level. Such capital raising could be at terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders and there can be no assurance that any capital raising we undertake would be successful given the current level of disruption in financial markets. Our holding company is dependent on the Bank for funding of obligations and dividends. As a holding company without significant assets other than the capital stock of the Bank, the Company’s ability to service its debt, including payment of interest on debentures issued as part of capital raising activities using trust preferred securities or pay dividends to stockholders, is dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank on such capital stock. The declaration of dividends by the Bank on all classes of its capital stock is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Bank and to applicable regulatory limitations, including prior approval of the OTS. If the earnings of the Company’s subsidiaries are not sufficient to make dividend payments to the Company while maintaining adequate capital levels, the Company may not be able to make dividend payments to its common shareholders or service its debt. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a savings and loan holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends. The OTS has the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the thrift organizations they supervise, including us. See Item 1. Business — Regulation and Supervision — Payment of Dividends. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the TARP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the TARP remains outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the Treasury’s investment or until the Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the TARP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the preferred stock issued to the Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. We may not be able to replace key members of senior management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. We depend on the services of existing senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand and as we continue to refine our business model, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional senior management and to recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel that leave our employ. In addition, as we continue to grow our business and plan to continue to expand our locations, products and services, we will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel. Competition for such personnel is especially keen in our geographic market areas and competition for the best people in most businesses in which we engage can be intense. In addition, as a TARP recipient, the ARRA limits the amount of incentive compensation that can be paid to certain executives. The effect could be to limit our ability to attract and retain senior management in the future. If we are unable to attract and retain talented people, our business could suffer. The loss of the services of any senior management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 24 Table of Contents The network and computer systems on which we depend could fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on the ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance of Internet banking depends substantially on widespread adoption of the Internet for general commercial and financial services transactions. If another provider of commercial services through the Internet were to suffer damage from physical break-in, security breach or other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users, the growth and public acceptance of the Internet for commercial transactions could suffer. This type of event could deter our potential customers or cause customers to leave us and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly regulated. The banking industry is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured depository institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. The OTS is the primary regulator of the Bank and its affiliated entities. In addition to its regulatory powers, the OTS also has significant enforcement authority that it can use to address unsafe and unsound banking practices, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. The FDIC also has significant regulatory authority over the Bank and may impose further regulation at its discretion for the protection of the DIF. Such regulation and supervision are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for our depositors and borrowers, and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Further, the Bank’s business is affected by consumer protection laws and regulation at the state and federal level, including a variety of consumer protection provisions, many of which provide for a private right of action and pose a risk of class action lawsuits. In the current environment, it is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regime in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services industry, and it is not possible to predict the impact of such changes on our results of operations. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, and/or the implementation of new government program and plans could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Among other things, such changes, as well as the implementation of such changes, could subject us to additional costs, constrain our resources, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer, increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, and/or reduce our ability to effectively hedge against risk. See further information in Item 1. Business — Regulation and Supervision. Our business has volatile earnings because it operates based on a multi-year cycle. The home lending segment of our business is a cyclical business that generally performs better in a low interest rate environment with a yield curve that is lower at the shorter time frames and higher at the longer time frames. In addition, other external factors, including tax laws, the strength of various segments of the economy and demographics of our lending markets, could influence the level of demand for mortgage loans. 25 Table of Contents Gain on sale of loans is a large component of our revenue and could be adversely impacted by a significant decrease in the volume of our mortgage loan originations to the extent the effect of the volume decline is not offset by an increase in the profit margins on such loans sales. Our loans are geographically concentrated in only a few states. A significant portion of our mortgage loan portfolio is geographically concentrated in certain states, including California, Michigan, Florida, Washington, Colorado, Texas and Arizona, which collectively represent approximately 67.8% of our mortgage loans held for investment balance at December 31, 2008. In addition, 54.0% of our commercial real estate loans are in Michigan. Continued adverse economic conditions in these few markets could cause delinquencies and charge-offs of these loans to increase, likely resulting in a corresponding and disproportionately large decline in revenues and an increase in credit risk. Also, we could be adversely affected by business disruptions triggered by natural disasters or acts of war or terrorism. We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny with respect to bank secrecy and anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. In recent years, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We can not be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. We are a controlled company that is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. The NYSE generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires audit, compensation and nominating committees to be composed solely of independent directors. However, under the rules applicable to the NYSE, if another company owns more than 50% of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a “controlled company” and exempt from rules relating to independence of the board of directors and the compensation and nominating committees. We are a controlled company because MP Thrift Investment L.P. beneficially owns more than 50% of our outstanding voting stock. A majority of the directors on the compensation and nominating committees are affiliated with MP Thrift Investment L.P. While a majority of our directors are currently independent, MP Thrift Investment L.P. has the right, if exercised, to designate a majority of the directors on the board of directors. Our shareholders do not have, and may never have, all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. If we become unable to continue to be deemed a controlled company, we would be required to meet these independence requirements and, if we are not able to do so, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE. Other Risk Factors. The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 