Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.” Components of Our Cost Structure • Production Costs are the day-to-day costs we incur to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market combined with the daily costs we incur to maintain our producing properties. This includes lease operating expenses and production taxes. — Lease operating expenses are generally comprised of several components including the cost of labor and supervision to operate our wells and related equipment; repairs and maintenance; related materials, supplies, fuel, and supplies utilized in operating our wells and related equipment and facilities; insurance applicable to our wells and related facilities and equipment. Lease operating expenses also include the cost for expensed workovers. Lease operating expenses are driven in part by the type of commodity produced, the level of workover activity and the geographical location of the properties. Oil is inherently more expensive to produce than natural gas. — Lease operating expenses also include ad valorem taxes, which are imposed by local taxing authorities such as school districts, cities, and counties or boroughs. The amount of tax we pay is based on a percent of value of the property assessed or determined by the taxing authority on an annual basis. When oil and natural gas prices rise, the value of our underlying property interests increase, and result in higher valorem taxes. — In the U.S. there are a variety of state and federal taxes levied on the production of oil and natural gas. These are commonly grouped together and referred to as production taxes. The majority of our production tax expense is based on a percent of gross value realized at the wellhead at the time the production is sold or removed from the lease. As a result, our production tax expense increases when oil and gas prices rise. — Historically, taxing authorities have occasionally encouraged the oil and natural gas industry to explore for new oil and natural gas reserves, or to develop high cost reserves, through reduced tax rates or tax credits. These incentives have been narrow in scope and short-lived. A small number of our wells currently qualify for reduced production taxes because they were discoveries based on the use of 3-D seismic or they are high cost wells. • Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization is the systematic expensing of the capital costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop oil and natural gas. As a full cost company, we capitalize all direct costs associated with our exploration and development efforts, including a portion of our interest and certain general and administrative costs, and apportion these costs to each unit of production sold through depletion expense. Generally, if reserve quantities are revised up or down, our depletion rate per unit of production will change inversely. When the depreciable base increases or decreases, the depletion rate will move in the same direction. 46 Table of Contents • Asset Retirement Accretion Expense is the systematic, monthly accretion of future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. • General and Administrative is our overhead, and includes payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, managing our production and development operations and legal compliance. We capitalize general and administrative costs directly related to our exploration and development activities. • Interest. We rely on our senior credit agreement to fund our short-term liquidity (working capital) and a portion of our long-term financing needs. As a result, we incur interest expense that correlates to both fluctuations in interest rates and to the extent that our cash flows from operations do not exceed our spending. We expect to continue to incur interest expense as we continue to grow. We capitalize interest directly related to our unevaluated properties and certain properties under development, which are not being amortized. • Income Taxes. We are generally subject to a 35% federal income tax rate. For income tax purposes, we are allowed deductions for accelerated depreciation, depletion and intangible drilling costs that reduce our current tax liability. Through 2005, all of our income taxes were deferred. Capital Commitments Our primary needs for cash are to fund our capital expenditure program, our working capital obligations and for the repayment of contractual obligations. In the future, cash will be required to fund our capital expenditures for the exploration and development properties necessary to offset the inherent declines in production and proven reserves that are typical in an extractive industry like ours. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on our access to cost effective capital resources and our success in economically finding and producing additional oil and natural gas reserves. Funding for our exploration and development of oil and natural gas activities and the repayment of our contractual obligations may be provided by any combination of cash flow from operations, cash on our balance sheet, the unused committed borrowing capacity under both our senior and subordinated credit agreements, reimbursements of prior land and seismic costs by third parties who participate in our projects, and the sale of interests in projects and properties or alternative financing sources as discussed in “— Contractual Obligations” and “— Capital Resources.” Cash flows from operations and the unused committed borrowing capacity under our senior credit agreement fund our working capital obligations. We believe that cash on hand, net cash provided by operating activities, and the unused committed borrowing capacity under both our senior and subordinated credit agreements will be adequate to satisfy our future financial obligations and liquidity. In the current environment of higher commodity prices, there may be increased demand for drilling equipment and services, leases and economically attractive prospects, which then may result in less availability and higher costs to us for those resources. Capital Expenditures The timing of most of our capital expenditures is discretionary because we have no material long-term capital expenditure commitments. Consequently, we have a significant degree of flexibility to adjust the level of our capital expenditures as circumstances warrant. Our capital expenditure program includes the following: • cost of acquiring and maintaining our lease acreage position and our seismic resources; • cost of drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells; • cost of installing new production infrastructure; • cost of maintaining, repairing and enhancing existing oil and natural gas wells; 47 Table of Contents • cost related to plugging and abandoning unproductive or uneconomic wells; and, • indirect costs related to our exploration activities, including payroll and other expenses attributable our exploration professional staff. Our budgeted capital expenditures for 2006 are as follows. 2006 (In million) Drilling $ 120.4 Net land and seismic 28.6 Capitalized interest and G&A 7.3 Other assets 0.6 Total $ 156.9 The capital that funds our drilling activities is allocated to individual prospects based on the value potential of a prospect, as measured by a risked net present value analysis. We start each year with a budget and re-evaluate this budget monthly. The primary factors that impact this value creation measure include forecasted commodity prices, drilling and completion costs, and a prospect’s risked reserve size and risked initial producing rate. Other factors that are also monitored throughout the year that influence the amount and timing of all our planned expenditures include the level of production from our existing oil and natural gas properties, the availability of drilling and completion services, and the success and resulting production of our newly drilled wells. The outcome of our monthly analysis results in a reprioritization of our exploration and development drilling schedule to ensure that we are optimizing our capital expenditure plan. Over the past three years, we have spent approximately $194.2 million to drill 52 exploratory wells and 81 developments wells. Two of these development wells were in progress at December 31, 2005. For 2006, we currently plan to spend approximately $47 million, or 30% of our total planned capital expenditures to drill 21 exploratory wells with an average working interest of 61% and to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2005. We believe that we possess a multi-year inventory of exploratory drilling prospects, the majority of which have been internally generated by our staff. As a consequence and considering the results that we have achieved in recent years, we expect that we will continue to emphasize our prospect generation and drilling strategy as our primary means of creating value for our stockholders. Due to our exploratory drilling success, over the last five years, a growing percentage of our capital expenditures have been allocated to the development of past field discoveries. For 2006, we currently plan to spend approximately $73.4 million, or 47% of our total planned capital expenditures on development drilling activities, which will include the drilling of 22 development wells with an average working interest of 56% and completing wells that were in progress at December 31, 2005. We currently plan to allocate approximately $56.4 million of this capital to develop our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2005. To support our prospect generation activities, we allocate a portion of our capital expenditures to land and seismic. Over the past three years we have spent $38.5 million on land and seismic activities. For 2006, we expect to spend approximately $28.6 million or 18% of our planned capital expenditures on land and seismic activities. Additionally, we currently plan to capitalize approximately $7.3 million of our forecasted general and administrative cost and forecasted interest in 2006. 48 Table of Contents The final determination with respect to our 2006 budgeted expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including: • commodity prices; • production from our existing producing wells; • the results of our current exploration and development drilling efforts; • economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including the availability of drilling and completion equipment; and • the availability of more economically attractive prospects. There can be no assurance that the budgeted wells will, if drilled, encounter commercial quantities of oil or natural gas. For a more in depth discussion of our 2006 capital expenditure plan see “