ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to our Operations We have a history of net losses, and while we expect to realize an increase in future period revenues and we anticipate the realization of net income, there is no assurance that this will be the case and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We are engaged primarily in the business of providing information technology (“IT”) services with established competencies in federal government and private consulting, planning, managing and implementing IT solutions, software and secure authentication processes. We have incurred substantial net losses through December 31, 2006. Although we anticipate an increase in revenues and operational profitability in future quarters, there is no assurance that this will be the case. Revenues and profits generated from our services will depend upon numerous factors, including: • Demand of commercial and federal marketplaces for our range of services, • Effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, 16 • Ability to deliver capabilities cost-effectively, and • Competitive environment. We may need to obtain additional funding to meet our future capital needs. If we are unable to obtain such financings, we may be required to significantly cut back our operations, sell assets or cease operations. If we continue to have operating losses and without the realization of additional capital, or net profit from operations, and/or if we continue to seek out and make acquisitions which require a cash component, then we may need to raise additional capital. On October 25, 2004 and October 29, 2004, we issued and sold shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and warrants to Barron Partners, L.P. (“Barron”) or an aggregate purchase price of approximately $3.58 million. In that financing transaction, we also issued a warrant to Westcap Securities, Inc. (“Westcap”) to purchase 511,428 shares of our Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.40 per share. In April and May of 2005, Barron converted a portion of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock and exercised warrants to purchase 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $800,000. In August and September 2005, Barron exercised warrants for 2,500,000 shares of Common Stock providing $1,000,000 in gross proceeds to the Company. In December 2005, warrants for an additional 5,728,572 shares of Common Stock were exercised by the holders thereof providing $2,291,429 of additional gross proceeds to the Company. During the period from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, Barron converted a total of 1,000,500 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into a total of 10,005,000 shares of Common Stock, and Westcap exercised warrants to purchase 173,856 shares of Common Stock for a total exercise price of $69,542. We may require additional funding to support our operations. Additional funding may be unavailable on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funding when needed, we may have to significantly cut back our operations, defer potentially favorable acquisitions, sell some or all of our assets and/or cease operations. In addition, if we raise additional capital by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may suffer significant dilution and the securities issued could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our current stockholders. We may have difficulty responding to changing technology. The IT industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technology. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to anticipate and keep pace with advancing technology and competitive innovations. However, we may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products or services or enhancing our existing products or services. In addition, we can give no assurance that new products or services may be developed that will render our current or planned products or services obsolete or inferior. Rapid technological development by competitors may result in our products or services becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research and development expenses incurred with respect to such products or services. We may be unable to implement our acquisition program. 17 Demand for businesses with credible business relationships and capabilities to provide services to various government agencies at the federal, state and local levels is very competitive. To the extent that this competition causes the price for these businesses to elevate beyond reasonable levels where funding for such acquisitions is no longer available, WidePoint may not be able to implement our acquisition strategy. Any significant change in the spending pattern of the federal government could potentially have an adverse effect on acquisition targets and as such, argue against making such acquisitions. We may have difficulty integrating acquisitions into our existing operations. To the extent that some acquisitions may have operational complexities due to the nature of their business, the election to not fully integrate such acquisitions may be made if such integration does not quantitatively improve operational or financial efficiencies. Some integration efforts will be phased in to ensure that desired efficiencies are quickly and cost effectively realized. Any element of integration must be justified rationally on potential cost savings realized by the business. If we are unable to successfully integrate some or all of the operations of ORC or future acquisitions, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may not receive the full amount of our backlog, which could harm our business. Our total backlog includes both funded and unfunded orders for services under existing signed contracts, assuming the exercise of all options relating to those contracts that we reasonably believe will be exercised. The U.S. Congress often appropriates funds for our clients on a yearly basis, even though their contracts with us may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years. As a result, contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work to be performed under the contracts may remain unfunded unless and until the U.S. Congress makes subsequent appropriations and the procuring agency allocates funding to the contract. The dollar amount of our backlog orders believed to be firm as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 were $3.4 million and $6.6 million, respectively. The portion of backlog reasonably expected to be filled during 2007 is $3.4 million. There can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenues in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract included in backlog will be profitable. This is because the actual receipt and timing of any of these revenues is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may never realize revenues from some of the engagements that are included in our backlog, and there is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. The federal government’s ability to select multiple winners under multiple award schedule contracts, government-wide acquisition contracts, blanket purchase agreements and other indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts, as well as its right to award subsequent task orders among such multiple winners, means that there is no assurance that unfunded contract backlog will result in actual orders. The actual receipt of revenues on engagements included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified, or terminated early. Moreover, under multiple award schedule contracts, government wide acquisition contracts, blanket purchase agreements, and other indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts, the government is frequently not obligated to order more than a minimum quantity of goods or services. 18 We have identified ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and material weaknesses in the design of our internal control over financial reporting in the past and would be adversely affected if we identify additional ineffective disclosure controls or material internal control weaknesses in the future. We determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, and that we had material weaknesses in the design of our internal control over financial reporting as of such dates, as discussed below. We believe such ineffective controls or material weaknesses were remediated during the first quarter of 2006 when we filed amendments to certain of our previous periodic reports, and subsequently determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the end of each of our quarters during 2006. However, if we encounter additional ineffective controls or material weaknesses in the future, they could result in our non-timely filing of periodic reports or in accounting deficiencies in financial reporting. With respect to ineffective disclosure controls and procedures, we discovered in November 2004 that the service provider we had engaged to Edgarize and file the proxy statement used in connection with our December 2003 annual meeting of stockholders and our 2002 annual report to stockholders inadvertently had not made such filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We immediately arranged for the making of those filings in November 2004 and have subsequently used other service providers to Edgarize and make our SEC filings. An additional internal reporting process was instituted in the fourth quarter of 2004 to track and confirm our filing of SEC reports. Furthermore, the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified during the year ended December 31, 2005 and discussed below contributed to the ineffectiveness of our controls and procedures as of such date. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified at the end of each of the quarters in 2005 and at December 31, 2005, resulted from insufficient technical accounting expertise within our accounting function to resolve non-routine or complex accounting and tax matters that occurred in connection with: (i) our acquisition of ORC in October 2004; (ii) the determination of the proper accounting treatment of the “financial instrument” relating to the warrants issued by the Company to Barron in October 2004; and (iii) the determination of the proper accounting treatment of the shares of Common Stock issued and held in escrow following the acquisition by the Company of Chesapeake Government Technologies, Inc. (“Chesapeake”) in April 2004. The material weaknesses in internal controls resulted in: (i) our late filing on April 19, 2005 (four days after the extended due date) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004; (ii) the need to restate the recorded amount of the financial instrument at December 31, 2004 and March 31, 2005 due to the failure to mark-to-market such instrument at December 31, 2004; (iii) the need to reclassify the amortized costs relating to the ORC acquisition in cost of sales and not in amortization and depreciation, and to record the convertible preferred stock issued to Barron as temporary preferred equity and not permanent preferred equity; and (iv) the need to restate our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the first three quarters of 2005 to reflect changes in our accounting relating to the Chesapeake acquisition. The Chesapeake-related restatements: (i) eliminated the intangible asset associated with the acquisition; (ii) reversed the related amortization expense; (iii) expensed as consulting fees the cost of the transaction attributable to the cost of issuance of the non-escrowed shares and other direct costs at the time of the acquisition; (iv) recorded and expensed as consulting fees in cost of sales the release of the shares from escrow at December 31, 2004; (v) expensed in cost of sales and recorded the value of those shares in equity meeting the contractual performance measures that would result in the release of those shares from escrow for the year ended December 31, 2005; and (vi) recorded the shares in equity as Common Stock issuable until such time as they can be reclassified as issued shares of Common Stock upon the release of the shares from escrow. 19 It should be noted that all of the warrants issued in October 2004 to Barron, which resulted in the recognition of the financial instrument liability due to the cash penalty provision in the registration rights agreement relating thereto, were exercised prior to the end of 2005. Consequently, the liability related to the financial instrument at December 31, 2005 was extinguished. We began the remediation of the weakness in our internal control over financial reporting by the employment of a consulting firm in January 2005 with the requisite accounting expertise to resolve the above issues, which arose as a result of accounting comments raised by the SEC in connection with its review of the Company’s annual and quarterly reports. We believe that the past results of the above material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and related ineffective disclosure controls and procedures resulting therefrom, were remedied during the first quarter of 2006 upon the filing by the Company of amendments to its prior periodic reports containing restated financial statements reflecting the resolution of the above accounting issues. We believe that internal control weakness itself was remedied as of March 2006. The total costs associated with the remediation were not material in amount. Risks Related to Our Industry The demand for business and technology consulting services weakened significantly in 2001 and 2002, and demand may resume its weakened state if the current improvement in the economic climate does not continue. The market for our consulting services and the technologies used in our solutions has changed rapidly over the last five years. The market for advanced technology consulting services expanded dramatically during 1999 and most of 2000, but declined significantly in 2001 and 2002. Since the second half of 2000, many companies have experienced financial difficulties or uncertainty, and canceled or delayed spending on technology initiatives as a result. These companies typically are not demonstrating the same urgency regarding technology initiatives that existed during the economic expansion that stalled in 2000. This trend worsened for some companies following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and the accounting scandals involving Enron, Worldcom, Tyco and other companies. The economic uncertainty caused by recent military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq further depressed technology spending in the commercial sector, although increased requirements and capabilities have characterized spending levels in the government sector. While the overall economic climate has begun to show signs of improvement since the third quarter of 2003, this improvement may not continue for a meaningful period of time. If the economic climate does not improve significantly, large companies may continue to cancel or delay their business and technology consulting initiatives because of the weak economic climate, or for other reasons, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 20 Our market is highly competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. The markets for the services we provide are highly competitive. We currently compete with companies from a variety of market segments, including publicly and privately held firms, large accounting and consulting firms, systems consulting and implementation firms, application software firms, service groups of computer equipment companies and other general management consulting firms. We also compete regularly with offshore outsourcing companies, and we expect competition from these companies to increase in the future, especially on development, application management services and outsourcing engagements. We compete frequently for client engagements against companies with far higher revenues and larger numbers of consultants than we have. Recent consolidations of large consulting companies within our market have further increased the size and resources of some of these competitors. These competitors are often able to offer more scale, which in some instances has enabled them to significantly discount their services in exchange for revenues in other areas or at later dates. Additionally, in an effort to maintain market share, many of our competitors are heavily discounting their services to unprofitable levels. Some of our competitors have gone out of business. If we cannot keep pace with the intense competition in our marketplace, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. We have significant fixed operating costs, which may be difficult to adjust in response to unanticipated fluctuations in revenues. A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly personnel, rent and depreciation, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, an unanticipated decrease in the number or average size of, or an unanticipated delay in the scheduling for, our projects may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter and could have a material adverse effect on operations for that quarter. An unanticipated termination or decrease in size or scope of a major project, a client’s decision not to proceed with a project we anticipated or the completion during a quarter of several major client projects could require us to maintain underutilized employees and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues and earnings may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter because of such factors as: • the contractual terms and timing of completion of projects, including achievement of certain business results; • any delays incurred in connection with projects; • the adequacy of provisions for losses and bad debts; • the accuracy of our estimates of resources required to complete ongoing projects; • loss of key highly skilled personnel necessary to complete projects; and 21 • general economic conditions. We may lose money if we do not accurately estimate the costs of fixed-price engagements. Some of our projects may be based on fixed-price, fixed-time contracts, rather than contracts in which payment to us is determined on a time and materials basis. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a project, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan upon which our fixed-price, fixed-time contract was based, could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may fix the price for some projects at an early stage of the process, which could result in a fixed price that turns out to be too low and, therefore, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our clients could unexpectedly terminate their contracts for our services. In both our commercial and government sector businesses, some of our contracts can be canceled by the client with limited advance notice and without significant penalty. Termination by any client of a contract for our services could result in a loss of expected revenues and additional expenses for staff that were allocated to that client’s project. We could be required to maintain underutilized employees who were assigned to the terminated contract. The unexpected cancellation or significant reduction in the scope of any of our large projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by our services or by our failure to remedy system failures. Many of our projects involve technology applications or systems that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. If we fail to perform our services correctly, we may be unable to deliver applications or systems to our clients with the promised functionality or within the promised time frame, or to satisfy the required service levels for support and maintenance. While we have taken precautionary actions to create redundancy and back-up systems, any such failures by us could result in claims by our clients for substantial damages against us. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for defects in the applications or systems we provide, and carry insurance coverage that mitigates this liability in certain instances, we cannot be assured that these limitations and insurance coverages will be applicable and enforceable in all cases. Even if these limitations and insurance coverages are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our clients for these types of claims could be material in amount and affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not attract and retain qualified professional staff, we may not be able to adequately perform our client engagements and could be limited in accepting new client engagements. Our business is labor intensive, and our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain, train and motivate highly skilled employees. Intense competition exists for employees who have specialized skills or significant experience in business and technology consulting. The improvement in demand for business and technology consulting services that began in the third quarter of 2003 has also increased the need for highly skilled employees. We may not be successful in attracting enough employees to achieve our desired expansion or staffing plans. Furthermore, the industry turnover rates for these types of employees are high, and we may not be successful in retaining, training and motivating the employees we are able to attract. Any inability to attract, retain, train and motivate employees could impair our ability to adequately manage and complete existing projects and to bid for or accept new client engagements. Such inability may also force us to hire expensive independent contractors, which could increase our costs and reduce our profitability on client engagements. We must also devote substantial managerial and financial resources to monitoring and managing our workforce and other resources. Our future success will depend on our ability to manage the levels and related costs of our workforce and other resources effectively. 22 We may be unable to protect our proprietary methodology. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary methodology and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. We generally enter into nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, partners, consultants, independent sales agents and clients, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Specifically in the government sector, statutory contracting regulations protect the rights of federal agencies to retain access to, and utilization of, proprietary intellectual property utilized in the delivery of contracted services to such agencies. Although we believe that our services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future, and, if asserted, these claims may be successful. A successful claim against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our directors and officers have significant voting power and may substantially influence the outcome of any stockholder vote. At December 31, 2006, our directors and officers, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 9,384,111 shares of our common stock, or approximately 18.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock. Each of such amounts includes shares that may be acquired upon the exercise of exercisable warrants and options. As a result, they have the ability to substantially influence, and may effectively control the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of WidePoint, even if such a change in control would benefit other investors. We have a concentrated ownership structure and shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by our directors and officers at December 31, 2006, in conjunction with shares of Common Stock owned by Barron, including shares it would own upon its conversion of all of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, would constitute approximately 22.5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. We are dependent on our key employees. 23 Our success will depend in large part upon the continued services of a number of key employees, including Steve Komar, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, James McCubbin, our Vice President, Secretary and Chief Financial Officer, Mark Mirabile, our Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, and Dan Turissini, our Vice President and Chief Technology Officer and the Chief Executive Officer of our wholly owned subsidiary, ORC. On July 1, 2002, we entered into employment arrangements with Messrs. Komar, McCubbin and Mirabile. Each of these three employment agreements was for an initial term of two years, with four renewable one-year options. On October 25, 2004, we entered into an employment arrangement with Mr. Turissini. Mr. Turissini’s employment agreement provides for annual extensions through October 31, 2009. We generally do not have employment agreements with our other employees. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if our key employees resign from WidePoint or its subsidiaries to join a competitor or to form a competing company, the loss of such personnel and any resulting loss of existing or potential clients to any such competitor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we require our employees to sign agreements prohibiting them from joining a competitor, forming a competing company or soliciting our clients or employees for certain periods of time, we cannot be certain that these agreements will be effective in preventing our key employees from engaging in these actions or that courts or other adjudicative entities will substantially enforce these agreements. Furthermore, for those employees whom we involuntarily terminated in connection with our restructuring actions, we have waived the non- competition clause of their agreements in exchange for releases of claims. We granted these waivers only in connection with the restructuring actions, and our general practice is not to waive the non-competition obligations of other departing employees. The loss of one or more significant customers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Historically, we have derived, and may in the future derive, a significant percentage of our total revenues from a relatively small number of clients. For the year ended December 31 2006, one customer, Headquarters Cryptologic Systems Group (HQ CPSG), individually represented approximately 29% of revenues. Due to the nature of our business and the relative size of certain contracts, which are entered into in the ordinary course of business, the loss of any single significant customer, including the above customer, could have a material adverse effect on results. For the year ended December 31, 2005, one customer, The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, individually represented approximately 18% of revenues. During 2004, two customers, Abbott Laboratories and The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, represented 12%, and 11% of revenues, respectively. In the event we lose any one of those significant customers, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We may incur substantial costs in connection with contracts awarded through a competitive procurement process, which could negatively impact our operating results. Many federal government contracts are awarded through a competitive procurement process. We expect that much of the government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive procedures. Competitive procurements impose substantial costs and present a number of risks, including: 24 • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; and • the expense and delay that we may face if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive procedures, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of offers, or in termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. The costs we incur in the competitive procurement process may be substantial and, to the extent we participate in competitive procurements and are unable to win particular contracts, these costs could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, GSA multiple award schedule contracts, government-wide acquisitions contracts, blanket purchase agreements, and other indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts do not guarantee more than a minimal amount of work for us, but instead provide us access to work generally through further competitive procedures. This competitive process may result in increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenues under the relevant contract. Unfavorable government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could harm our reputation and relationships with our clients. The federal government audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Like most large government contractors, our contracts are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by federal agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency. An unfavorable audit of us, or of our subcontractors, could have a substantial adverse effect on our operating results. For example, any costs that were originally reimbursed could subsequently be disallowed. In this case, cash we have already collected may need to be refunded and future operating margins may be reduced. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. Security breaches in sensitive government systems could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity. Many of the services we provide involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our errors and omissions and product liability insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install, and maintain could materially reduce our revenues. 25 Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances, and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, the government client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, we may not derive the revenues anticipated from the contract, which, if not replaced with revenues from other contracts, could harm our operating results. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we will be unable to perform that contract and we may not be able to compete for or win new contracts for similar work. Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the federal government could cause us to lose revenues. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from contracts funded by federal government agencies. We believe that contracts with federal government agencies, and defense agencies in particular, will be a significant source of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies or the U.S. defense budget could directly affect our financial performance. For example, the reduction in the U.S. defense budget during the early 1990s caused some defense-related government contractors to experience decreased sales, reduced operating margins and, in some cases, net losses. Among the factors that could harm our business are: • curtailment of the federal government’s use of technology services firms; • a significant decline in spending by the federal government, in general, or by specific agencies such as the Department of Defense; • reductions in federal government programs or requirements; • a shift in spending to federal programs and agencies that we do not support or where we currently do not have contracts; • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices; • federal governmental shutdowns, such as the shutdown that occurred during the government’s 1996 fiscal year, and other potential delays in the government appropriations process; and • general economic and political conditions, including any event that results in a change in spending priorities of the federal government. 26 These or other factors could cause federal government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, any limitations imposed on spending by U.S. government agencies that result from efforts to reduce the federal deficit may limit both the continued funding of our existing contracts and our ability to obtain additional contracts. Federal government contracts contain provisions giving government clients a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies allow government clients, among other things, to: • terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience, as well as for default; • reduce orders under or otherwise modify contracts; • for larger contracts subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, reduce the contract price or cost where it was increased because a contractor or subcontractor during negotiations furnished cost or pricing data that was not complete, accurate, and current; • for GSA multiple award schedule contracts, government-wide acquisition agreements, and blanket purchase agreements, demand a refund, make a forward price adjustment, or terminate a contract for default if a contractor provided inaccurate or incomplete data during the contract negotiation process, or reduce the contract price under certain triggering circumstances, including the revision of pricelists or other documents upon which the contract award was predicated, the granting of more favorable discounts or terms and conditions than those contained in such documents, and the granting of certain special discounts to certain clients; • terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract or issue task orders in connection with indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contracts; • claim rights in solutions, systems, and technology produced by us; • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors or the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor’s judgment; 27 • subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; and • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government. If a federal government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a federal government client were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel, or decline to exercise an option to renew with respect to one or more of our significant contracts or suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government, our revenues and operating results would be materially harmed. Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts, which affect how we do business with our federal government clients and may impose added costs on our business. Among the most significant laws and regulations are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose cost accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under some cost-based government contracts; and • laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of specified solutions and technical data. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines, and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In particular, the civil False Claims Act provides for treble damages and potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval, or makes a false statement in order to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the government. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government. These provisions of the civil False Claims Act permit parties, such as our employees, to sue us on behalf of the government and share a portion of any recovery. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues. 28 The adoption of new procurement laws or regulations could reduce the amount of services that are outsourced by the federal government and cause us to experience reduced revenues. New legislation, procurement regulations, or labor organization pressure could cause federal agencies to adopt restrictive procurement practices regarding the use of outside IT providers. The American Federation of Government Employees, the largest federal employee union, strongly endorses legislation that may restrict the procedure by which services are outsourced to government contractors. One such proposal, the Truthfulness, Responsibility, and Accountability in Contracting Act, would have effectively reduced the volume of services that is outsourced by the federal government by requiring agencies to give in-house government employees expanded opportunities to compete against contractors for work that could be outsourced. If such legislation, or similar legislation, were to be enacted, it would likely reduce the amount of IT services that could be outsourced by the federal government, which could materially reduce our revenues. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our common stock price could be volatile. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of the securities of IT companies have been especially volatile. Broad market fluctuations of this type may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to be subject to volatility due to a variety of factors, including: • public announcements concerning us, our competitors or the IT industry; • fluctuations in operating results; • introductions of new products or services by us or our competitors; • changes in analysts’ earnings estimates; and • announcements of technological innovations. In the past, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, we could incur substantial costs and experience a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and such securities class action litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 A third party could be prevented from acquiring shares of our common stock at a premium to the market price because of our anti-takeover provisions. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to you and our other stockholders. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our common stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued to Barron upon its conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The fact that our directors and officers beneficially own 18.6% of our outstanding common stock may decrease your influence on stockholder decisions. At December 31, 2006, our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 18.6% of our outstanding common stock. Such amounts include shares that may be acquired upon the exercise of exercisable warrants and options. As a result, our officers and directors, will have the ability to influence our management and affairs and the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our bylaws and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. There may not be sufficient liquidity in the market for our securities in order for investors to sell their securities. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock, which was listed on the American Stock Exchange on September 26, 2006, and previously was traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, and there can be no assurance that a trading market will develop further or be maintained in the future. As of December 31, 2006, the closing sale price of our common stock on the American Stock Exchange was $2.22. As of that date, there were approximately 177 registered holders of record not including shares held in street name. During year ended December 31, 2006, our common stock traded an average of 250,923 shares per day with a trading range of $2.10 per share to $3.13 per share. Over the past three years our common stock has traded an average of 116,306 shares of common stock per day. In addition, over the past three years our common stock had a trading range with a low price of $0.13 per share and a high price of $3.13 per share. We could issue additional shares of common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. 30 We have a total of 110,000,000 authorized shares of common stock, of which 50,494,759 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2006. In addition, we had warrants, options and convertible preferred stock outstanding as of that date with respect to which 9,146,450 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of any authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. Such stock issuances may be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital for acquisitions or other general corporate purposes that we may need at today’s stock prices, we would likely need to issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant number of shares of our common stock. These issuances would dilute our stockholders percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing our stockholders influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution of net tangible book value if holders of stock options or warrants, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock could depress our stock price. As of December 31, 2006, we had reserved 7,194,307 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of stock options and warrants. We have also reserved 1,952,143 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2006, holders of warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 6,440,830 shares of our common stock may exercise those securities and transfer the underlying common stock at any time subject, in some cases, to Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, in connection with our financing with Barron, we have registered (i) all of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that we issued and sold in the Barron financing and (ii) all of the shares of common stock that are issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued to Westcap in connection with the financing. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was initially convertible into 20,457,143 shares of our common stock and the warrants initially entitled the holders to acquire an additional 10,739,999 shares of our common stock. In January and February of 2007, Barron converted all of its remaining shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, which conversion resulted in the issuance to Barron of a total of 1,952,140 shares of our Common Stock. From January 1 through December 31, 2006, Barron converted a portion of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into 10,005,000 shares of common stock. During April, May, September, October, and December 2005, Barron converted a portion of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into 8,500,000 shares of common stock and exercised warrants to purchase 7,428,572 shares of common stock. In December 2005, Barron transferred warrants to purchase 2,800,000 shares of common stock to other institutional investors. In December 2005, the holders of such warrants to acquire such 2,800,000 shares of common stock exercised such warrants. These shares of common stock are registered for possible resale by the holders thereof under the Securities Act of 1933. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to issue equity securities in the future at a price that we think is appropriate, or at all. 31 Financial investors may have interests different than our stockholders or WidePoint, and may be able to impact corporate actions requiring stockholder approval because they own a significant amount of our common stock. In future financings, we may issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant number of shares of our outstanding common stock. Financial investors may have short-term financial interests different from our long-term goals and the long-term goals of our management and other stockholders. In addition, based on the significant ownership of our outstanding common stock, financial investors may be able to impact corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 