Risk Factors” and “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results in Operations” and in our other filings made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The cautionary statements made in this report should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear. These statements are only predictions. We cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risk factors referenced above. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. We nonetheless reserve the right to make such updates from time to time without the need for specific reference to this report. No such update shall be deemed to indicate that other statements not addressed by such updates remain correct or create an obligation to provide any other updates. Item 1. Business Overview Eclipsys is a healthcare information technology company and a leading provider of advanced integrated information software, clinical content and professional services that help healthcare organizations improve clinical, financial, and operational processes. We develop and license proprietary software and content that is designed for use in connection with many of the key clinical, administrative and financial functions that healthcare organizations require. Among other things, our software enables physicians, nurses and other clinicians to order tests, treatment and medications and record, access and share information about patients. Our software also facilitates patient admissions, scheduling, records maintenance, invoicing, inventory control, cost accounting, and assessment of the profitability of specific medical procedures and personnel. Our clinical content, which is integrated with our software, provides practice guidelines for use by physicians, nurses and other clinicians. We also provide services related to our software. These services include software and hardware maintenance, outsourcing, remote hosting of our software as well as third-party healthcare information technology applications, network services, training and consulting. We believe that one of the key differentiators of our software is its open, flexible and modular architecture. This allows our software to be installed one application at a time or all at once, and to generally integrate easily with software developed by other vendors or our clients. This enables our clients to install our software without the disruption and expense of replacing their existing software systems to gain additional functionality. We market our software to small, stand-alone hospitals, large multi-entity healthcare systems, academic medical centers, community hospitals and other healthcare organizations. We have one or more of our software applications installed in, or licensed to be installed at approximately 1,500 facilities. Most of the top-ranked U.S. hospitals named in U.S. News & World Report’s Honor Roll use one or more of our solutions. Available Information Our Web site address is www.eclipsys.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our Web site, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC. The information on our Web site is not incorporated into this annual report. The SEC also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Web site is located at www.sec.gov. Eclipsys was incorporated in Delaware as “Integrated Healthcare Solutions, Inc.” in 1995 and we changed our name to “Eclipsys Corporation” in 1997. Segments Eclipsys operates in one segment, as further described in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Developments Software We released Sunrise Clinical Manager 4.5 XA in January 2006. The Sunrise 4.5 XA advanced clinical suite builds upon our previous releases and adds significant new or expanded capabilities, including the fully integrated capabilities of our Sunrise Ambulatory Care™, Sunrise Emergency Care™ and Sunrise Medication Management™ solutions. Sunrise 4.5 XA also builds upon recent enhancements to our Sunrise Patient Financial Manager™ and Sunrise Decision Support™ solutions. These solutions help save healthcare enterprises significant time and costs by streamlining workflows and optimizing clinical practices across the organization. During 2006, we completed implementation of Sunrise Clinical Manager 4.5 XA at more than 25 client sites and implementations at more than 35 additional client sites are underway or scheduled for 2007. On October 23, 2006, we announced that Eclipsys’ Sunrise Ambulatory Care™ 4.5 complies with the Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology (CCHIT) for ambulatory electronic health record criteria for 2006. Ambulatory electronic health records are designed for physician offices and clinics where most Americans get their healthcare. The CCHIT is an independent, nonprofit organization that reviews electronic health record software against its set of certification criteria designed to evaluate functionality, interoperability and security. 2 Acquisitions In July 2006, we acquired certain assets of Sysware Healthcare Systems, Inc. (“Sysware”), a laboratory information system company. During December 2006, we closed a stock acquisition of Mosum Technology (India) Private Limited (“Mosum”), Sysware’s related software-development organization in India, once applicable Indian regulatory approvals were received. From July 2006 to such closing, we operated Mosum under a management agreement. Since 2004, Eclipsys and Sysware shared a strong strategic business relationship, with Eclipsys marketing Sysware's PowerLAB solution under the Eclipsys Sunrise Laboratory™ brand. This asset acquisition built upon that partnership and acknowledges the value of an integrated laboratory information system as a core module of Eclipsys' Sunrise Clinical Manager suite of advanced clinical information solutions. It also provided us with the foundation for our growing development and support organization in India. In December 2006, we acquired Van Slyck & Associates, Inc., or VSA. VSA is a patient classification, acuity-driven nurse staffing service and software company. Since 2004, Eclipsys has offered Sunrise Patient Acuity™, a module that includes VSA’s patient acuity methodology embedded into the interdisciplinary clinical documentation capabilities of Eclipsys’ Sunrise Clinical Manager™. Sunrise Patient Acuity taps the VSA methodology, which enables calculation of patient acuity -the patient's severity and complexity of illness or injury - as an automatic byproduct of nursing documentation, and generates nurse staffing models based upon patient acuity to enable nurse managers to staff their units appropriately to ensure improved quality of care. With this acquisition, Eclipsys will be able to further expand its integrated solutions’ staffing and productivity management and reporting capabilities. Key Hires and Promotions In January 2006, we named John E. Deady Executive Vice President Client Solutions. Mr. Deady oversees our sales, sales support, corporate marketing and software marketing operations. In August 2006, we named Jan Smith Senior Vice President Human Resources. In December 2006, we promoted Frank Stearns to Executive Vice President Client Operations. In that capacity, Mr. Stearns manages our professional services, software support and remote hosting operations. In January 2007, we promoted John McAuley to Senior Vice President Outsourcing. He now manages our outsourcing operations. In February 2007, we named Bob Elson, MD, MS our new Chief Medical Officer. Dr. Elson will work with Eclipsys senior executives to set our long-term clinical strategy and short-term priorities for Eclipsys solutions. Additionally, Dr. Elson will be responsible for executive-level and physician sales support. In February 2007, we announced that Nitin Deshpande will join Eclipsys as president of India operations, where he will be responsible for managing all day-to-day operations of Eclipsys India. In February 2007, we announced that Joe Petro joined Eclipsys as Senior Vice President Software Development. He will be responsible for managing our software research and development activities. Restructuring Activities In January 2006, we effected a restructuring of our operations which included a reduction in headcount of approximately 100 individuals, and the reorganization of our Company. This was undertaken to better align our organization, reduce costs, and re-invest some of the cost savings into client-related activities including client support and professional services. In December 2006, we realigned certain management resources and consolidated some facilities to eliminate excess office space. These activities resulted in restructuring charges of $14.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2006. Severance charges were $12.2 million, of which $3.6 million related to the termination of employment of certain management personnel. Of this charge, $1.3 million was for non-cash stock-based compensation. The excess office space consolidation resulted in charges of $2.5 million related to the closing of three facilities. Savings from these restructuring activities are being reinvested in our business to finance a planned increase in our research and development capabilities and client services. Challenges for 2007 Our release of SCM 4.5 XA in January 2006 included new functionality, and we are implementing this new software with a number of clients. In addition, our newest integrated medication management and ambulatory software is early in its lifecycle and is being implemented by many clients for the first time. Furthermore, we are currently developing the next major release of our core clinical software, SCM 5.0 XA. In the event our new software does not continue to achieve market acceptance, we experience any significant delays in implementing these new releases, or the software does not function as expected, our results of operations could be negatively affected, including a delay or loss in closing future new sales transactions. Our software sales in 2006 did not meet our internal targets and the attainment of the results we expect for 2007 will depend upon future software license fees, continued improvement in our professional service revenues and margins, and continued successful client activations. The Company’s name recognition in the marketplace continues to be relatively low. In 2007, we have begun an image-building campaign to increase name recognition. In addition, we have placed new leaders in sales, marketing and sales support. 3 Healthcare Industry Factors Healthcare organizations are under increased pressure to reduce medical errors and increase operational efficiencies. Our software and services are designed to help clients achieve these objectives. Legislation is also requiring changes within the healthcare industry. We believe that these changes may increase demand for healthcare information technology software and services such as ours. The Decade of Health Information Technology. On April 27, 2004, President George W. Bush issued an executive order that established the position of National Health Information Technology Coordinator within the Department of Health & Human Services. The post was created to provide leadership for the development and nationwide implementation of an interoperable health information technology infrastructure to improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare in the United States. The vision of this infrastructure is to: ensure that appropriate information to guide medical decisions is available at the time and place of care; improve healthcare quality, reduce medical errors, and advance the delivery of appropriate, evidence-based medical care; reduce healthcare costs resulting from inefficiency, medical errors, inappropriate care, and incomplete information; promote a more-effective marketplace, greater competition, and increased choice through the wider availability of accurate information on healthcare costs, quality, and outcomes; improve the coordination of care and information among hospitals, laboratories, physician offices, and other ambulatory care providers through an effective infrastructure for the secure and authorized exchange of healthcare information; and ensure that patients’ individually identifiable health information is secure and protected. On July 21, 2004, the Secretary of Health & Human Services released the first outline of a 10-year plan to build the national electronic health information infrastructure. The report entitled, “The Decade of Health Information Technology: Delivering Consumer-centric and Information-rich Health Care,” concluded that federal leadership can facilitate efforts to be carried out by the private sector and laid out the broad steps needed to achieve widespread electronic health records for Americans. This report was a response to the call by President Bush in 2004 to achieve electronic health records for most Americans within a decade. CCHIT. The Health & Human Services initiatives have, among other things, led to the creation of the private-sector Certification Commission for Health Information Technology, or CCHIT, which consists of 15 commissioners from across the healthcare industry. CCHIT is developing a set of private sector determined criteria for electronic health record functionality, interoperability, reliability and security, and is inspecting electronic health record software to determine its performance against these criteria. Eclipsys’ Sunrise Ambulatory Care™ 4.5 met CCHIT’s ambulatory electronic health record criteria for 2006. Institute of Medicine. In 1999, the Institute of Medicine issued a report titled, “To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System” calling for the expanded use of information technology to reduce avoidable medical errors by 50 percent in the U.S. over the ensuing five-year period. According to that report, between 44,000 and 98,000 people died each year as a result of medical errors. The Institute of Medicine concluded that more people were injured from preventable mistakes than from many other common illnesses or accidents. The Institute of Medicine report identified medication and pharmacy errors as significant causes of deaths and adverse events. In 2003, the Institute of Medicine released a separate report stating that medical errors may be reduced through widespread adoption of information technology, such as electronic medical records that can be connected through a national system linking all healthcare organizations. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 or HIPAA, seeks to impose national health data standards on covered entities. Under HIPAA, a covered entity includes (i) healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions; (ii) healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA-compliant and non-compliant formats; and (iii) health plans. The HIPAA standards prescribe, among other things, transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions, in order to protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. HIPAA also requires covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Under HIPAA, covered entities are required to utilize HIPAA-compliant products, software and services. We believe that the need for HIPAA-compliant software will continue to create demand for software and services like ours. We are not a covered entity under HIPAA, but many of our clients are. Accordingly, we have developed our software to facilitate HIPAA compliance. The Joint Commission. The Joint Commission (formerly known as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) is an independent non-profit organization that provides voluntary evaluation and accreditation for more than 15,000 healthcare organizations in the United States. The Joint Commission periodically introduces new process improvement initiatives, standards and performance measurements that are used to assess hospitals. The Joint Commission has also established patient safety standards and each year approves annual National Patient Safety Goals that include specific recommendations for improving patient safety. Most of our clients seek to comply with the Joint Commission standards. We believe that clients use our software and services to help them meet the Joint Commission standards. The Internet. The Internet enables consumers to be more involved in their healthcare choices, and provides increased availability of medical information to physicians, clinicians and healthcare workers. As consumers adopt Web-centric lifestyles, we believe that software and services like ours will become more appealing to a wider client base. Our Offering We provide the following software and services: Clinical and financial software for use by healthcare organizations and clinicians; Professional services related to implementation and use of our software; Consulting services to help our clients improve their operations; IT outsourcing; Remote hosting of client IT systems, including our software and third-party software; Hardware and Networks. 4 Additional details regarding our software and services offering are provided below: Software Eclipsys software provides comprehensive functionality that helps healthcare organizations and care providers address many of their key clinical, financial and administrative needs. Among other things, our software is designed to: · Provide healthcare organizations with tools to improve clinical workflow and support clinical, financial and operational decision-making throughout the organization, as well as information they use to negotiate with insurance companies, Medicare and Medicaid, to maximize collections and minimize payment denials. · Provide clinicians with access to patient information, evidence-based clinical content and supporting references, such as medical journals, as well as information regarding costs and effects of patient tests and treatments. · Permit simultaneous access to consolidated patient information by multiple users from access points throughout the clinical environment and from remote locations. We have been committed to building our software on, and re-engineering and migrating existing software to, an architecture based on the Microsoft .NET Framework and other industry-standard technologies. We believe this approach allows our software to be more open and extensible, making it easier to integrate with a client’s legacy and ancillary systems. We believe this architecture enables healthcare organizations to continue to derive value from their existing technology investments, and add other software as functional needs and resources dictate. Sunrise software built upon our XA architecture shares a common database model known as a Healthcare Data Repository. The Healthcare Data Repository can be used by all components within XA-based Eclipsys software, regardless of where in the healthcare organization a physician, nurse or employee is located. Our XA-based solutions are designed to prevent the isolation of information and duplication of functionality that can occur with other information technology systems. We believe that this approach will enable a faster, more cost-effective implementation of our software, simplify software maintenance and provide a lower total cost of ownership. The following summarizes our principal software offerings: Sunrise Clinical Manager is a computerized patient record system that provides patient information to clinicians at the point of decision-making. Sunrise Clinical Manager allows a physician to enter orders quickly and efficiently, and provides evidence-based clinical decision support at the time of order entry. Sunrise Clinical Manager’s core capabilities and related modules are designed for use in the acute care, critical care emergency department, ambulatory clinic and physician office settings, and include the following features among others: · Order entry, communication and management, which enables physicians to order online prescriptions and laboratory or diagnostic tests or procedures, and routes the orders to the appropriate department or party within the organization for fulfillment. · Knowledge-based orders, which is a clinical decision support system that uses a rules database to help physicians minimize the risk of possible problems with or conflicts between newly entered orders and existing patient information. A set of clinical rules developed by physicians is available with knowledge-based orders. Clients can modify these existing rules or develop their own clinical rules. · Clinical decision support, which triggers alerts, including by e-mail or pager, upon the occurrence of a specified change in a patient’s condition or other physician-designated events, such as the delivery of unfavorable laboratory results, while relating the new information to information already in the system for that patient. · Clinical pathways and scheduled activities lists, which provides access to standardized patient-care profiles and assists in the scheduling of clinical treatment procedures. · Clinical documentation, which gathers and presents patient information by accepting and arranging input from caregivers, laboratories or monitoring equipment. Features include an automated patient classification, an acuity system that facilitates timely adjustment of nursing staffing and other resources and evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. · End-to-end medication management, which links physicians as they place orders, pharmacists as they verify and dispense those orders, and nurses as they administer medications. · Laboratory, surgery, and critical care modules to facilitate the operation of these care environments. · Remote access services, which provides physicians with Web-based access to patient information from within the healthcare facility or remotely. Sunrise Access Manager enables healthcare providers to identify a patient at any time within a hospital and to collect and maintain patient information on an enterprise-wide basis. It provides the following features: · Captures demographic, insurance, referral and primary-care provider information and helps automate patient admission, discharge and transfer processes. · Patient scheduling and resource management facilitates scheduling patient appointments throughout an organization based on patient preferences and resource availability, and provides complex scheduling capabilities such as multiple and linked conditional appointments. · Managed-care support features, such as verifying insurance eligibility online and compliance with managed-care plan rules and procedures. Sunrise Patient Financial Manager provides centralized enterprise-wide business office capabilities: · Patient accounting, which facilitates the patient-billing and accounts receivable functions, including bill generation, reimbursement management to monitor receivables, the collection activities and contract compliance analysis, as well as follow-up processing and reporting functions. Paperless processing is possible through real-time inquiry, editing, sorting, reporting, commenting and updating from other applications, including modules in Sunrise Access Manager and Sunrise Clinical Manager modules. · Contract management, which is used in conjunction with other Sunrise software to ensure that patient care complies with the payment terms, restrictions, approval requirements and other rules and regulations of each insurance plan and managed care contracts. · Single-statement billing and registration across the entire enterprise, and enterprise-wide access and outcomes analysis. 5 Sunrise Decision Support integrates data from throughout the enterprise to create a clinical and financial data repository that can be used as an analytical tool and provides the following features: · Allows a hospital to evaluate its cost structure, make changes in clinical processes to reduce costs and accurately price reimbursement contracts on a profitable basis. · Analyzes and measures clinical process and outcomes data, and helps to determine the patient-level costs of care and identify the practice patterns that most consistently result in the highest quality care at the lowest cost. · Helps clients measure and document improved clinical outcomes and facilitates economic analysis. · Facilitates cost and profitability analysis and strategic planning, modeling and forecasting. Sunrise Clinical Analytics™ is an online analytic processing database and reporting companion to Sunrise Clinical Manager. Sunrise Clinical Analytics automates the development of sophisticated reporting objects that are focused on quality management analysis, pay-for-performance measures, clinical practice analysis, clinical decision support analysis and outcomes analysis. It provides verifiable information about adherence to guidelines, length of stay, the development of some morbid conditions, and other outcomes. Sunrise Clinical Analytics extracts information from a replicated copy of Sunrise Clinical Manager, and creates and updates fact and dimension tables for analysis using business intelligence tools. Sunrise Record Manager™ provides comprehensive clinical data management and enterprise-wide document and image-management functions: · Enables capture of patient identification and consent forms and other documents through document imaging and document scanning and interfaces with other electronic document systems. · Includes tools for managing patient medical records, including tracking record locations, chart requests, and secured release of information. · Joint Commission-compliance deficiency and chart completion management functions, including HIPAA-compliant electronic signature functions. · Medical records abstracting, working with industry-standard encoders. Sunrise Laboratory provides a comprehensive set of tools that help manage the data surrounding the samples that are received in the laboratory. It is designed to streamline, simplify and support the different workflows within the laboratory which include: · Manages the different methods in which the results are to be reported · Enables the user to track specimens at both a patient and specimen level throughout the laboratory providing for immediate access to the specimen · Includes tools for managing the services within and outside the hospital confines · Improves efficiency through streamlined workflows and the use of business logic Knowledge-Based Charting™ an integrated module of Sunrise Clinical Manager, provides clinicians with immediate access to an interdisciplinary professional practice framework and evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. As a result, Knowledge-Based Charting integrates best practices from multiple disciplines at the point of care and other points of decision-making to help individualize and improve healthcare delivery. eLink provides tools to enable the integration of clinical and financial data from disparate existing systems within an integrated health network. Eclipsys Diagnostic Imaging Solutions comprise a comprehensive radiology information system (Sunrise Radiology™) and picture archiving and communications system (Sunrise PACS™), that can be implemented together, separately, or part of an image-enabled clinical information system to deliver imaging data as an integrated part of the overall patient record that is accessible to clinicians at the point of care on any Sunrise-enabled device. Other Services Professional Services. Implementation of some of our software is complex. We offer our clients professional assistance in the implementation of our software, the conversion and integration of their historical data into our software and systems, and ongoing training and support in the use of our software. We also provide maintenance releases and software updates, on a when and if available basis. Consulting Services. We offer consulting services to help clients improve their operations. IT Outsourcing. Eclipsys provide full, partial or transitional IT outsourcing services to our clients. We assume partial to total responsibility for a healthcare organization’s IT operations using our employees. These services include facilities management, by which we assume responsibility for all aspects of client internal IT operations, as well as network outsourcing, which relieves our clients of the need to secure and maintain an expensive IT infrastructure in a rapidly changing technological environment and transition management, which offers our clients a solution for migrating their IT to new processes, technologies or platforms without interfering with healthcare delivery. Remote Hosting. We provide remote hosting services to our clients. Under this offering we assume processing of a number of Eclipsys and non-Eclipsys applications for our clients using equipment and personnel at our facilities. This minimizes the capital investment, operating expense, and management challenges of maintaining the environment, equipment and technical staff required to support an organization’s IT operations. Hardware and Networks. As part of our commitment to being a comprehensive software and services provider, we sell a variety of desktop, network and platform solutions including hardware, middleware and related services. We also offer network services. Our professionals assess changes in network utilization and function, forecast necessary upgrades to accommodate a client’s growth, and design the changes required to support our clients’ needs for network performance and functionality. 6 Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing teams serve small, stand-alone hospitals, large multi-entity healthcare systems, academic medical centers, community hospitals and other healthcare organizations. We sell our software and services primarily in North America exclusively through our direct sales force, which is structured in geographic regions, with sales staff dedicated to either new business or existing client sales. Sales teams focusing on certain specialty solution areas, such as ancillary (departmental) software, outsourcing and/or remote hosting, etc., further support the regionalized sales teams. Our marketing group develops targeted campaigns designed to increase demand for our software and services, as well as increase corporate awareness and brand identity for our company. In addition to advertising, direct mail, public relations and Internet marketing, our marketing group produces a wide range of collateral and sales support training and materials, and manages our annual Eclipsys User Network™ client conference and our presence at numerous industry trade shows throughout the year. International In 2006, we acquired Mosum Technology (India) Private Limited, a laboratory software-development organization in India. We are now expanding the size and scope of our operations in India. We believe that India provides a solid base of educated professionals to work on research development and support of our software, at an economically effective cost. Research and Development We seek to maintain technological competitiveness and respond to market trends and our clients’ evolving needs. Our software is based on Microsoft’s .NET Framework and other industry standards. We are also creating new functionality for our existing software. We have limited our reliance on outside vendors that have historically aided our internal personnel in software development. We use Microsoft’s Solutions Framework development methodology to gauge the quality and performance of our software development efforts. As part of these processes, we have also involved clients in our software design process, enabling them in some cases to have direct and regular access to the development staff, including its senior leadership. Our latest-generation clinical and access solutions utilize the same architecture and share the same Health Data Repository and many other components, while being adapted for the workflows of different environments. This enables Eclipsys clients to tie together their workflows, operations and the entire continuum of care. Further, our software is built upon an open architecture that supports the secure exchange of data between systems, as well as the ability to embed evidence-based content. Our spending on research and development (including capitalized software development costs) was $72.1 million, $71.9 million and $73.4 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In November 2004, we announced the general availability of Sunrise ED Manager 3.6 XA and Sunrise Ambulatory Care Manager 3.6 XA. In the first quarter of 2005, we released Sunrise Clinical Manager 4.0XA, which contained new features and enhancements in several key areas including incremental functionality related to ambulatory, emergency department, critical care, medication management and nursing. Additionally, we released Remote Access Services (RAS) 4.0 XATM and Pocket SunriseTM 4.0 XA, which enhanced users’ ability to access our applications from remote locations. Furthermore, in November 2005 we announced the release of Sunrise Radiology Information System (RIS), which automates radiology workflow. In January 2006, we released Sunrise Clinical Manager 4.5 XA. This release contained approximately 1,500 incremental functions which continued to enhance the capabilities of our offering in all major clinical areas including ambulatory, emergency department, critical care and nursing. Additionally, this release included integrated end-to-end medication management capabilities and builds upon recent enhancements to our Sunrise Patient Financial Manager and Sunrise Decision Support Manager solutions. Competition We face intense competition in the marketplace. We are confronted by rapidly changing technology, evolving user needs and the frequent introduction of new software to meet the needs of our current and future clients. Our principal competitors in our software business include Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, Medical Information Technology, Inc, GE Healthcare, McKesson Corporation, and Siemens AG. Other software competitors include providers of practice management, general decision support and database systems, as well as segment-specific applications and healthcare technology consultants. Our services business competes with large consulting firms such as Deloitte & Touche and Cap Gemini, as well as independent providers of technology implementation and other services. Our outsourcing business competes with large national providers of technology solutions such as IBM, Corporation Computer Sciences Corp., and Perot Systems Corporation, as well as smaller firms. Several of our existing and potential competitors are better established, benefit from greater name recognition and have significantly more financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors, particularly those with a more diversified revenue base or that are privately held, may have greater flexibility than we do to compete aggressively on the basis of price. Vigorous and evolving competition could lead to a loss of market share or pressure on our prices and could make it more difficult to grow our business profitably. The principal factors that affect competition within our market include software functionality, performance, flexibility and features, use of open industry standards, speed and quality of implementation and client service and support, company reputation, price and total cost of ownership. We anticipate continued consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries and integrated technology companies may become more active in our markets, both through acquisition and internal investment. There is a finite number of hospitals and other healthcare providers in our target market. As costs fall, technology improves, and market factors continue to compel investment by healthcare organizations in software and services like ours, market saturation may change the competitive landscape in favor of larger competitors with greater scale. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 2,220 employees. Our success depends significantly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense in our industry, particularly for software developers, implementation and service consultants and sales and marketing personnel. We cannot be assured that we will continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our employees are not represented by any labor unions. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 7 Financial Information about Geographic Areas Revenues from U.S. operations totaled $394.5 million, $359.3 million, and $293.1 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Revenues from outside the United States totaled $33.1 million, $24.0 million, and $16.0 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Long-lived assets in the United States totaled $109.8 million and $108.4 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Long-lived assets in other countries totaled $3.8 million and $2.9 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many risks affect our business. These risks include, but are not limited to, those described below, each of which may be relevant to decisions regarding ownership of our stock. We have attempted to organize the description of these risks into logical groupings to enhance readability, but many of the risks interrelate or could be grouped in other ways, so no special significance should be attributed to these groupings. Any of these risks could have a significant adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks relating to development and operation of our software Our software may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation and impair our sales. Software development is time consuming, expensive and complex. Unforeseen difficulties can arise. We may encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we could discover additional problems that prevent our software from operating properly. If our software contains errors or does not function consistent with software specifications or client expectations, clients could assert liability claims against us and/or attempt to cancel their contracts with us. These risks are generally more significant for newer software, until it has been used for enough time in enough client locations for us to have addressed issues that are discovered through use in disparate circumstances and environments. Due to our development efforts, we generally have significant software that could be considered relatively new and therefore more vulnerable to these risks, including at present our medication management and ambulatory software, among other things. It is also possible that future releases of our software, which would typically include additional features, may be delayed or may require additional work to address issues that may be discovered as the software comes into use in our client base. If we fail to deliver software with the features and functionality as described in our software specifications, we could be subject to significant contractual damages. Our software development efforts may not meet the needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We continuously strive to develop new software, and improve our existing software to add new features and functionality. We schedule and prioritize these development efforts according to a variety of factors, including our perceptions of market trends, client requirements, and resource availability. Our software is complex and requires a significant investment of time and resources to develop, test and introduce into use. Sometimes this takes longer than we expect. Sometimes we encounter unanticipated difficulties that require us to re-direct or scale-back our efforts. Sometimes we change our plans in response to changes in client requirements, market demands, resource availability, regulatory requirements, or other factors. All of this can result in acceleration of some initiatives and delay of others. If we make the wrong choices or do not manage our development efforts well, we may fail to produce software that responds appropriately to our clients' needs, or we may fail to meet client expectations regarding new or enhanced features and functionality. 8 Market changes or mistaken development decisions could decrease the demand for our software, which could harm our business and decrease our revenues. The healthcare information technology market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and new software introductions and enhancements that may render existing software obsolete or less competitive. Our position in the market could erode rapidly due to the development of regulatory or industry standards that our software may not fully meet, or due to changes in the features and functions of competing software, as well as the pricing models for such software. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing software and services, and to develop and introduce competing new software and services that are appropriately priced to meet changing client and market requirements. The process of developing software and services such as those we offer is extremely complex and is expected to become more complex and expensive in the future as new technologies are introduced. As we evolve our offering in an attempt to anticipate and meet market demand, clients and potential clients may find our software and services less appealing. If software development for the healthcare information technology market becomes significantly more expensive due to changes in regulatory requirements or healthcare industry practices, or other factors, we may find ourselves at a disadvantage to larger competitors with more financial resources to devote to development. If we are unable to enhance our existing software or develop new software to meet changing client requirements, demand for our software could suffer. Our software strategy is dependent on the continued development and support by Microsoft of its .NET Framework and other technologies. Our software strategy is substantially dependent upon Microsoft's .NET Framework and other Microsoft technologies. The .NET Framework, in particular, is a relatively new and evolving technology. If Microsoft were to cease actively supporting .NET or other technologies, fail to update and enhance them to keep pace with changing industry standards, encounter technical difficulties in the continuing development of these technologies or make them unavailable to us, we could be required to invest significant resources in re-engineering our software. This could lead to lost or delayed sales, client costs associated with platform changes, unanticipated development expenses and harm to our reputation, and would cause our financial results and business to suffer. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property, or any misappropriation of it, could enable our competitors to market software with similar features, which could reduce demand for our software. We are dependent upon our proprietary information and technology. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Also, despite the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our software, reverse engineer our software or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In some limited instances, clients can access source-code versions of our software, subject to contractual limitations on the permitted use of the source code. Furthermore, it may be possible for our competitors to copy or gain access to our content. Although our license agreements with clients attempt to prevent misuse of the source code or trade secrets, the possession of our source code or trade secrets by third parties increases the ease and likelihood of potential misappropriation of our software. Furthermore, others could independently develop technologies similar or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. Failure of security features of our software could expose us to significant expense and harm our reputation. Clients use our systems to store and transmit highly confidential patient health information. Because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. If, notwithstanding our efforts, our software security features do not function properly, or client systems using our software are compromised, we could face claims for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, significant costs for remediation and re-engineering to prevent future occurrences, and serious harm to our reputation. Risks related to sales and implementation of our software The length of our sales and implementation cycles may adversely affect our future operating results. We have experienced long sales and implementation cycles. How and when to implement, replace, expand or substantially modify an information system, or modify or add business processes, are major decisions for healthcare organizations, our target client market. Furthermore, our software generally requires significant capital expenditures by our clients. The sales cycle for our software ranges from 6 to 18 months or more from initial contact to contract execution. Our implementation cycle has generally ranged from 6 to 36 months from contract execution to completion of implementation. During the sales and implementation cycles, we will expend substantial time, effort and resources preparing contract proposals, negotiating the contract and implementing the software. We may not realize any revenues to offset these expenditures and, if we do, accounting principles may not allow us to recognize the revenues during corresponding periods. Additionally, any decision by our clients to delay purchasing or implementing our software may adversely affect our revenues. 9 We may experience implementation delays that could harm our reputation and violate contractual commitments. Some of our software is complex and requires a lengthy and expensive implementation process. Each client's situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failures by us or the client to meet our respective implementation responsibilities. Because of the complexity of the implementation process, delays are sometimes difficult to attribute solely to us or the client. Implementation delays could motivate clients to delay payments or attempt to cancel their contracts with us or seek other remedies from us. Any inability or perceived inability to implement consistent with a client's schedule may be a competitive disadvantage for us as we pursue new business. Implementation also requires our clients to make a substantial commitment of their own time and resources and to make significant organizational and process changes, and if our clients are unable to fulfill their implementation responsibilities in a timely fashion our projects may be delayed or become less profitable. Implementation costs may exceed expectations, which can negatively affect our operating results. Each client's circumstances may include unforeseen issues that make it more difficult or costly than anticipated to implement our software. We may fail to project, price or manage our implementation services correctly. If we do not have sufficient qualified personnel to fulfill our implementation commitments in a timely fashion, related revenue may be delayed, and if we must supplement our capabilities with expensive third-party consultants, our costs will increase. Our performance depends upon software sales. We must achieve higher levels of software sales, consistent with our projections, in order to achieve our expectations for annual revenue and earnings and to provide a solid foundation for future growth. Our ability to improve sales depends upon many factors, including completion of implementation and successful use of our new software releases, particularly our pharmacy and ambulatory solutions, in live environments for clients who achieve success and are willing to become reference sites for us. Risks related to our IT or technology services Various risks could interrupt clients' access to their data residing in our service center, exposing us to significant costs. We provide remote hosting services that involve running our software and third- party vendor's software for clients in our Technology Solutions Center. The ability to access the systems and the data the Technology Solution Center hosts and supports on demand is critical to our clients. Our operations and facilities are vulnerable to interruption and/or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: (i) power loss and telecommunications failures; (ii) fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; (iii) software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; and (iv) computer viruses, hacking and similar disruptive problems. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various means including redundant infrastructure, disaster recovery plans, separate test systems and change control and system security measures, but our precautions may not protect against all problems. If clients' access is interrupted because of problems in the operation of our facilities, we could be exposed to significant claims by clients or their patients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of medical care. We must maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans that rely upon third-party providers of related services, and if those vendors fail us at a time that our center is not operating correctly, we could incur a loss of revenue and liability for failure to fulfill our contractual service commitments. Any significant instances of system downtime could negatively affect our reputation and ability to sell our remote hosting services. Any breach of confidentiality of client or patient data in our service center could expose us to significant expense and harm our reputation. We must maintain facility and systems security measures to preserve the confidentiality of data belonging to our clients and their patients that resides on computer equipment in our Technology Solution Center. Notwithstanding the efforts we undertake to protect data, our measures can be vulnerable to infiltration as well as unintentional lapse, and if confidential information is compromised we could face claims for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, significant costs for remediation and re-engineering to prevent future occurrences, and serious harm to our reputation. Recruiting challenges and higher than anticipated costs in outsourcing our clients' IT operations may adversely affect our profitability. We provide outsourcing services that involve operating clients' IT departments using our employees. At the initiation of these relationships, clients often require us to hire, at substantially the same compensation, the entire IT staff that had been performing the services we take on. In these circumstances our costs may be higher than we target unless and until we are able to transition the workforce, methods and systems to a more scalable model. Various factors can make this difficult, including geographic dispersion of client facilities and variation in client needs, IT environments, and system configurations. Also, under some circumstances we may incur unanticipated costs as a successor employer by inheriting unforeseen liabilities that the client had to these employees. Further, facilities management contracts require us to provide the IT services specified by contract, and in some places it can be difficult to recruit qualified IT personnel. Changes in circumstances or failure to assess the client's environment and scope our services accurately can mean we must hire more staff than we anticipated in order to meet our responsibilities. If we have to increase salaries or relocate personnel, or hire more people than we anticipated, our costs may increase under fixed fee contracts. Inability to obtain consents needed from third parties could impair our ability to provide remote IT or technology services. We and our clients need consent from some third-party software providers as a condition to running their software in our data center, or to allowing our employees who work in client locations under facilities management arrangements to have access to their software. Vendors' refusal to give such consents, or insistence upon unreasonable conditions to such consents, could reduce our revenue opportunities and make our IT or technology services less viable for some clients. 10 Risks related to the healthcare IT industry and market We operate in an intensely competitive market that includes companies that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We face intense competition in the marketplace. We are confronted by rapidly changing technology, evolving user needs and the frequent introduction of new software to meet the needs of our current and future clients. Our principal competitors in our software business include Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, Medical Information Technology, Inc., GE Healthcare, McKesson Corporation, and Siemens AG. Other software competitors include providers of practice management, general decision support and database systems, as well as segment-specific applications and healthcare technology consultants. Our services business competes with large consulting firms such as Deloitte & Touche and Cap Gemini, as well as independent providers of technology implementation and other services. Our outsourcing business competes with large national providers of technology solutions such as IBM Corporation, Computer Sciences Corp., Perot Systems Corporation, as well as smaller firms. Several of our existing and potential competitors are better established, benefit from greater name recognition and have significantly more financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors, particularly those with a more diversified revenue base or that are privately held, may have greater flexibility than we do to compete aggressively on the basis of price. Vigorous and evolving competition could lead to a loss of market share or pressure on our prices and could make it more difficult to grow our business profitably. The principal factors that affect competition within our market include software functionality, performance, flexibility and features, use of open industry standards, speed and quality of implementation and client service and support, company reputation, price and total cost of ownership. We anticipate continued consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries and large integrated technology companies may become more active in our markets, both through acquisition and internal investment. There is a finite number of hospitals and other healthcare providers in our target market. As costs fall, technology improves, and market factors continue to compel investment by healthcare organizations in software and services like ours, market saturation may change the competitive landscape in favor of larger competitors with greater scale. Clients that use our legacy software are vulnerable to competition. A significant part of our revenue comes from relatively high-margin legacy software that was installed by our clients many years ago. We attempt to convert these clients to our newer generation software, but such conversions require significant investments of time and resources by clients. This reduces our advantage as the incumbent vendor and has allowed our competitors to target these clients, with some success. If we are not successful in retaining a large portion of these clients by continuing to support legacy software - which is increasingly expensive to maintain - or by converting them to our newer software, our results of operations will be negatively affected. The healthcare industry faces financial constraints that could adversely affect the demand for our software and services. The healthcare industry faces significant financial constraints. For example, the shift to managed healthcare in the 1990's put pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs, and the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 dramatically reduced Medicare reimbursement to healthcare organizations. Our software often involves a significant financial commitment by our clients. Our ability to grow our business is largely dependent on our clients' information technology budgets. If healthcare information technology spending declines or increases more slowly than we anticipate, demand for our software could be adversely affected. Healthcare industry consolidation could impose pressure on our software prices, reduce our potential client base and reduce demand for our software. Many healthcare organizations have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our target market and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to erosion of the prices for our software. In addition, when healthcare organizations combine they often consolidate infrastructure including IT systems, and acquisition of our clients could erode our revenue base. Potential changes in standards applicable to our software could require us to incur substantial additional development costs. Integration and interoperability of the software and systems provided by various vendors are important issues in the healthcare industry. Market forces or regulatory authorities could cause emergence of software standards applicable to us, and if our software is not consistent with those standards we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs to conform. For example, the CCHIT is developing comprehensive sets of criteria for the functionality, interoperability, and security of various software modules in our industry. Achieving CCHIT certification is evolving as a de facto competitive requirement, resulting in increased research and development and administrative expense to conform to these requirements. If our software is not consistent with emerging standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we may have to change our software. Risks related to our operating results, accounting controls and finances We have a history of operating losses and we cannot predict future profitability. During each of the four preceding years, we had a net loss or operating loss. We may incur losses in the future, and it is not certain that we will achieve sustained or increasing profitability. 11 Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced significant variations in revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: · the performance of our software and our ability to promptly and efficiently address software performance shortcomings or warranty issues; · the cost, timeliness and outcomes of our software development and implementation efforts, including expansion of our presence in India; · the timing, size and complexity of our software sales and implementations; · overall demand for healthcare information technology; · the financial condition of our clients and potential clients; · market acceptance or our new services, software and software enhancements by us or our competitors; · client decisions regarding renewal or termination of their contracts; · software and price competition; · personnel changes and other organizational changes and related expenses; · significant judgments and estimates made by management in the application of generally accepted accounting principles; · healthcare reform measures and healthcare regulation in general; and · fluctuations in general economic and financial market conditions; including interest rates. It is difficult to predict the timing of revenues that we receive from software sales, because the sales cycle can vary depending upon several factors. These include the size and terms of the transaction, the changing business plans of the client, the effectiveness of the client's management, general economic conditions and the regulatory environment. In addition, the timing of our revenue recognition could vary considerably depending upon whether our clients license our software under our subscription model or our traditional licensing arrangements. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of sales and implementations could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on these comparisons as indicators of future performance. Our past stock option practices and related accounting issues may result in litigation, regulatory proceedings and governmental enforcement actions. As a result of our voluntary review of historical stock option practices, we concluded that incorrect measurement dates were used for accounting for certain prior stock option grants. As a result, we recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants, and we restated certain previously filed financial statements included in this Form 10-K. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The review and related activities have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, which will affect our financial results for 2007. While we believe appropriate judgments have been made in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Additionally, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that could subject our common stock to potential delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed us to risks associated with claims by stockholders or employees, regulatory proceedings, government enforcement actions and related investigations and litigation. These risks include significant expenses, management distraction and potential damages, penalties, other remedies, or adverse findings, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Early termination of client contracts or contract penalties could adversely affect results of operations. Client contracts can change or terminate early for a variety of reasons. Change of control, financial issues, or other changes in client circumstances may cause us or the client to seek to modify or terminate a contract. Further, either we or the client may generally terminate a contract for material uncured breach by the other. If we breach a contract or fail to perform in accordance with contractual service levels, we may be required to refund money previously paid to us by the client, or to pay penalties or other damages. Even if we have not breached, we may deal with various situations from time to time for the reasons described above which may result in the amendment of a contract. These steps can result in significant current period charges and/or reductions in current or future revenue. Because in many cases we recognize revenues for our software monthly over the term of a client contract, downturns or upturns in sales will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. We recognize a significant portion of our revenues from clients monthly over the terms of their agreements, which are typically 5-7 years and can be up to 10 years. As a result, much of the revenue that we report each quarter is attributable to agreements executed during prior quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales, client renewals, or market acceptance of our software in one quarter will not necessarily be reflected in lower revenues in that quarter, and may negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to compensate for these reduced revenues. This monthly revenue recognition also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as a significant portion of revenues from new clients must generally be recognized over the applicable agreement term. 12 Loss of revenue from large clients could have significant negative impact on our results of operations and overall financial condition. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 40% of our revenues were attributable to our 20 largest clients. In addition, approximately 36% of our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2006 were attributable to 20 clients. Loss of revenue from significant clients or failure to collect accounts receivable, whether as a result of client payment default, contract termination, or other factors could have a significant negative impact on our results of operation and overall financial condition. Impairment of intangible assets could increase our expenses. A significant portion of our assets consists of intangible assets, including capitalized development costs, goodwill and other intangibles acquired in connection with acquisitions. Current accounting standards require us to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis and other intangibles if certain triggering events occur, and adjust the carrying value of these assets to net realizable value when such testing reveals impairment of the assets. Various factors, including regulatory or competitive changes, could affect the value of our intangible assets. If we are required to write-down the value of our intangible assets due to impairment, our reported expenses will increase, resulting in a corresponding decrease in our reported profit. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain internal control over financial reporting that meets applicable standards. We have a material weakness in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 (see Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures”), and it is possible that we might in the future have another material weakness in maintaining such effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our operating results which could result in a negative market reaction. Inability to obtain additional financing could limit our ability to conduct necessary development activities and make strategic investments. While our available cash and cash equivalents and the cash we anticipate generating from operations appear at this time to be adequate to meet our foreseeable needs, we could incur significant expenses as a result of unanticipated events in our business or competitive, regulatory, or other changes in our market. As a result, we may in the future need to obtain additional financing. If additional financing is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to respond adequately to these changes, which could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. Risk of liability to third parties Our software and content are used to assist clinical decision-making and provide information about patient medical histories and treatment plans. If our software fails to provide accurate and timely information or is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, clients, clinicians or their patients could assert claims against us that could result in substantial cost to us, harm our reputation in the industry and cause demand for our software to decline. We provide software and content that provides practice guidelines and potential treatment methodologies, and other information and tools for use in clinical decision-making, provides access to patient medical histories and assists in creating patient treatment plans. If our software fails to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of our software is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could have liability to clients, clinicians or patients. The assertion of such claims, whether or not valid, and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management's attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our software. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages and to require that our clients assume responsibility for medical care and approve all system rules and protocols. Despite these precautions, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable, may not be binding upon patients, or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage, but this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us. In addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. One or more large claims could exceed our available insurance coverage. Complex software such as ours may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released. It is challenging for us to envision and test our software for all potential problems because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of computing environments or treatment methodologies that our clients may deploy or rely upon. Despite extensive testing by us and clients, from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our software, and such defects or errors can be expected to appear in the future. Defects and errors that are not timely detected and remedied could expose us to risk of liability to clients, clinicians and patients and cause delays in software introductions and shipments, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications or decrease market acceptance or client satisfaction with our software. Our software and our vendors' software that we include in our offering could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, exposing us to costs that could be significant. Infringement or invalidity claims or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims could be asserted or prosecuted against us based upon design or use of software we provide to clients, including software we develop as well as software provided to us by vendors. Regardless of the validity of any claims, defending against these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources, and vendor indemnity might not be available. The assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions preventing us from distributing our software, or require us to obtain a license to the disputed intellectual property rights, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We might also be required to indemnify our clients at significant expense. 13 Risks related to our strategic relationships and initiatives We depend on licenses from third parties for rights to some of the technology we use, and if we are unable to continue these relationships and maintain our rights to this technology, our business could suffer. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our software from a number of third-party vendors. Most of these licenses expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. We may not be able to continue using the technology made available to us under these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce software shipments until we obtain equivalent technology, which could hurt our business. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, particularly with regard to Microsoft, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own software. Our offering often includes software modules provided by third parties, and if these third parties do not meet their commitments, our relationships with our clients could be impaired. Some of the software modules we offer to clients are provided by third parties. We often rely upon these third parties to produce software that meets clients' needs and to implement and maintain that software. If these third parties fail to fulfill their responsibilities, our relationships with affected clients could be impaired, and we could be responsible to clients for the failures. We might not be able to recover from these third parties for all of the costs we incur as a result of their failures. If we undertake additional acquisitions, they may be disruptive to our business and could have an adverse effect on our future operations and the market price of our common stock. An important element of our business strategy has been expansion through acquisitions and while there is no assurance that we will complete any future acquisitions, any future acquisitions would involve a number of risks, including the following: · The anticipated benefits from any acquisition may not be achieved. The integration of acquired businesses requires substantial attention from management. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition process could hurt our business. · In future acquisitions, we could issue additional shares of our common stock, incur additional indebtedness or pay consideration in excess of book value, which could have dilutive effect on future net income, if any, per share. · New business acquisitions must be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. These acquisitions may generate significant intangible assets and result in substantial related amortization charges to us. Additional investment will be required to realize the potential of our Sysware and Mosum acquisition. We must make significant investments of money and management time in software development and infrastructure in order to realize the potential of our acquisition of the business of Sysware and Mosum to (i) have a fully integrated and leverageable laboratory information system to sell to our diversified client base, and (ii) build Mosum's India operations into an integrated development and support organization that can cost-effectively augment our onshore resources. If the additional investment turns out to be more than what we anticipated, this may negatively affect our results of operations. Risks related to industry regulation Potential regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration of our software and content as medical devices could impose increased costs, delay the introduction of new software and hurt our business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, may become increasingly active in regulating computer software or content intended for use in the healthcare setting. The FDA has increasingly focused on the regulation of computer software and computer-assisted products as medical devices under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act. If the FDA chooses to regulate any of our software, or third party software that we resell, as medical devices, it could impose extensive requirements upon us, including the following: · requiring us to seek FDA clearance of pre-market notification submission demonstrating substantial equivalence to a device already legally marketed, or to obtain FDA approval of a pre-market approval application establishing the safety and effectiveness of the software; · requiring us to comply with rigorous regulations governing the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of medical devices; and · requiring us to comply with the FDC Act regarding general controls including establishment registration, device listing, compliance with good manufacturing practices, reporting of specified device malfunctions and adverse device events. If we fail to comply with applicable requirements, the FDA could respond by imposing fines, injunctions or civil penalties, requiring recalls or software corrections, suspending production, refusing to grant pre-market clearance or approval of software, withdrawing clearances and approvals, and initiating criminal prosecution. Any FDA policy governing computer products or content, may increase the cost and time to market of new or existing software or may prevent us from marketing our software. 14 Changes in federal and state regulations relating to patient data could depress the demand for our software and impose significant software redesign costs on us. Clients use our systems to store and transmit highly confidential patient health information and data. State and federal laws and regulations and their foreign equivalents govern the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. These laws and regulations may change rapidly and may be unclear or difficult to apply. Federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, impose national health data standards on healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions, healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA-compliant and non-compliant formats and health plans. Collectively, these groups are known as covered entities. The HIPAA standards prescribe transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions; protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information; and require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Though we are not a covered entity, most of our clients are and require that our software and services adhere to HIPAA standards. Any failure or perception of failure of our software or services to meet HIPAA standards could adversely affect demand for our software and services and force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our software or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our clients. States and foreign jurisdictions in which we or our clients operate have adopted, or may adopt, privacy standards that are similar to or more stringent than the federal HIPAA privacy standards. This may lead to different restrictions for handling individually identifiable health information. As a result, our clients may demand information technology solutions and services that are adaptable to reflect different and changing regulatory requirements which could increase our development costs. In the future, federal or state governmental authorities may impose new data security standards or additional restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. We cannot predict the potential impact that these future rules may have on our business. However, the demand for our software and services may decrease if we are not able to develop and offer software and services that can address the regulatory challenges and compliance obligations facing our clients. Risks related to our personnel and organization Our growing operations in India expose us to risks specific to international operations that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As a result of our 2006 acquisition of Mosum, we have a significant workforce employed in India. To date our operations in India have focused primarily upon our laboratory software, but we intend to increase the size and scope of our operations in India to include additional research and development and administrative functions, with the expectation that our India operations will be integral to the Company. This involves significant challenges that are increased by our lack of prior experience managing operations in India. Further, while there are certain cost advantages to operating in India, significant increases in the numbers of foreign businesses that have established operations in India and commensurate competition to attract and retain skilled employees has increased, and will likely continue to increase, compensation costs. As a result of these and other factors there can be no assurance that we will successfully integrate our India operations, or that our India operations will advance our business strategy and provide a satisfactory return on this investment. In addition, our reliance on a workforce in India exposes us to disruptions in the business, political and economic environment in that region. Maintenance of a stable political environment is important to our operations, and terrorist attacks and acts of violence or war may directly affect our physical facilities and workforce or contribute to general instability. Our operations in India may also be affected by trade restrictions, such as tariffs or other trade controls, as well as other factors that may adversely affect our business and operating results. More generally, foreign operations subject us to additional risks including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, varying legislative or regulatory requirements and protections, particularly for intellectual property rights, and cultural differences. Furthermore, remote operations require significant management attention and financial resources. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified technical, marketing, sales and management personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired. Our success depends, in significant part, upon the continued services of our key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. Competition for these employees is intense and we maintain at-will employment terms with our employees, meaning that they are free to leave at any time. In addition, the process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business strategy can be difficult, time-consuming and expensive. We believe that our ability to implement our strategic goals depends to a considerable degree on our senior management team. The loss of any member of that team could hurt our business. Risks related to our equity structure Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that a stockholder may believe is desirable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 4,900,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of our company. The issuance of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. In August 2000, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan under which we issued preferred stock purchase rights that would adversely affect the economic and voting interests of a person or group that seeks to acquire us or a 15% or more interest in our common stock without negotiations with our board of directors. Our charter documents contain additional anti-takeover devices including: · only one of the three classes of directors is elected each year; · the ability of our stockholders to remove directors without cause is limited; · the right of stockholders to act by written consent has been eliminated; · the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders has been eliminated; and · advance notice must be given to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 