ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and future results could be harmed. The continued economic slowdown in the United States and the ongoing financial crisis may continue to adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The current economic slowdown in the United States is likely to continue to adversely affect our operating results and the broadcast industry in general by, among other things, reducing demand for local and national broadcast advertising and making it more difficult for customers to pay their accounts. Some companies have experienced downward pressure on their stock price and credit capacity without regard to their underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may continue to be adversely affected, possibly materially. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted which could reduce our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any such disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. In addition, our cash balances will not yield significant interest income in this low-interest rate environment. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and other discretionary uses of cash. We depend on advertising revenues, which fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Our main source of revenue is the sale of advertising. Our ability to sell advertising depends on many factors, including the following: • the health of the economy, and particularly the economy of the Pacific Northwest region and Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon; • the popularity of our programming; • pricing fluctuations in local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media, particularly network, cable television, direct satellite television and radio, and the Internet; • the use of new services and devices which allow viewers to minimize commercial advertisements, such as satellite radio and personal digital video recorders; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. Our advertising revenue has decreased due to adverse developments in many of the above factors, and if the decrease continues, it will adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, and as a result, second and fourth quarter broadcasting revenue is typically greater than first and third quarter broadcasting revenue. This seasonality is primarily attributable to increased consumer advertising in the spring and then increased retail advertising in anticipation of holiday season spending. Furthermore, revenue from political advertising is cyclical and varies based on the timing of federal, state, and local elections, as well as the presence of highly contested initiatives or ballot measures. 22 We have incurred losses in the past. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain profitability. During 2008 and 2007, we had income from continuing operations before income taxes of $71 million and $47 million respectively. However, approximately $153 million of income for 2008 and $40 million of income for 2007 resulted from our sale of shares of Safeco Corporation common stock. In 2006, we had income from continuing operations before income taxes of $9 million, and in 2005 we had a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $16 million. We cannot assure you that our plans to improve operating performance will be successful or that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future, especially given the current state of the national and Pacific Northwest economies. As of the end of 2008, after conducting an impairment review, we recorded a total impairment charge of $78.2 million, consisting of impairments of goodwill ($38.4 million), intangible assets ($38.3 million) and equity investment ($1.5 million). Approximately $55.6 million of goodwill, intangible assets (primarily FCC licenses) and equity investment remain on our balance sheet (or 15% of our total assets) as of December 31, 2008. We test goodwill and intangible assets at the reporting unit level annually in October or whenever certain triggering events or circumstances occur, including, but not limited to changing business conditions and outlook, significant slowdown in the economic environment, and significant reduction in our market capitalization, indicating that goodwill or intangible assets might be impaired. If impairment is indicated as a result of future evaluations, we would record a further impairment charge in accordance with accounting rules, which would reduce any reported net income or increase any reported net loss for the period in which the charge is taken, and which could adversely affect the value of our stock. We may need to take additional impairments in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of our future impairments. From the end of 2008 until the date of this filing, our market capitalization has decreased significantly. Since significant reduction of market capitalization is one of the key trigger events for us to conduct an interim goodwill and intangible assets impairment review, we could recognize further impairments in future quarters on the approximately $55.6 million goodwill, intangibles and equity investment currently included in our total assets. Although we expect to generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred tax asset set up as a result of the goodwill and intangible impairment, significant changes in expectations and future results could require us to establish a valuation allowance. Our operating results are dependent on the success of programming aired by our television and radio stations, which depends in part upon factors beyond our control. Our advertising revenues are dependent on the success of our local, network and syndicated programming. We make significant commitments to acquire rights to television and radio programs under multi-year agreements. The success of such programs is dependent partly upon unpredictable factors such as audience preferences, competing programming, and the availability of other entertainment activities. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising to cover the costs of the program. In some instances, we may have to replace or cancel programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase operating costs. Our Seattle and Portland television stations, which account for approximately 63% of our television broadcasting revenue, are affiliated with the ABC Television Network, nine of our television stations are affiliated with the CBS Television Network (including a 50%-owned television station), one of our television stations is affiliated with the FOX Television Network, two of our television stations are independent and the remainder of our television stations are affiliated with Univision. Any performance decline by ABC, CBS, or by other networks or network program suppliers, could harm our business and operating results. 23 Competition in the broadcasting industry and the rise of alternative entertainment and communications media may result in loss of audience share and advertising revenue by our stations. Our television and radio stations face intense competition, including competition from the following sources: • local network affiliates and independent stations; • cable, direct broadcast satellite and alternative methods of broadcasting brought about by technological advances and innovations, including pay-per-view and home video and entertainment systems; and • other sources of news, information and entertainment, including streaming video broadcasts over the Internet, podcasting, newspapers, movie theaters and live sporting events. In addition to competing with other media outlets for audience share, we also compete for advertising revenue that comprises our primary source of revenue. Our stations compete for advertising revenue with other television and radio stations in their respective markets, as well as with other advertising media such as newspapers, the Internet, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directory, direct mail and local cable systems. Our operating results are dependent in part upon the ability of each of our stations to compete successfully in its market, and there can be no assurance that any one of our stations will be able to maintain or increase its current audience share or revenue share. To the extent that certain of our competitors have, or may in the future obtain, greater resources, our ability to compete successfully in our broadcasting markets may be impeded. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television and radio businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could adversely affect our television and radio stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives including cable, direct satellite-to-home services, satellite radio, pay-per-view, the Internet, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems and MP3 players have fractionalized television and radio audiences. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes including the increased usage of video-on-demand have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire desired programming. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites and potentially soon for cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our television businesses. Our inability to effectively respond to these technological changes may result in our inability to effectively compete for advertising revenue and programming. Because significant portions of our cost of services are relatively fixed, downturns in the economy harm our operations, revenue, cash flow and earnings. Nearly all of our operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest region. The Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon markets are particularly important for our financial well-being. Operating results over the past several years, including 2008, have been adversely impacted by a deteriorating regional economy. Continued 24 weak economic conditions in these markets would harm our operations and financial condition. Because significant portions of our costs of services are relatively fixed, we may be unable to materially reduce costs to offset declines in our revenues. As a result, we could suffer net losses, which could increase if the current economic downturn accelerates. In addition, the significant downturn in the national economy that began in 2008 resulted (and may in the future continue to result) in decreased national advertising sales. If this continues, it could harm our results of operations because national advertising sales represent a significant portion of our television advertising net revenue. The current economic downturn has particularly affected certain key categories of national broadcast advertising segments, including specifically, the automobile industry, which on a national basis represents the largest spending category in the broadcasting industry. Reductions in advertising spending by key segments in 2008 negatively affected our financial results, and a prolonged downturn in these industries could continue to harm our cash flows and results of operations. We may experience disruptions in our business if we sell or acquire and integrate new television or radio stations. As part of our business strategy and subject to market conditions, we plan to continue to evaluate opportunities to sell or acquire television and radio stations. On January 1, 2008, we finalized our purchase of KBAK and KBFX, our two Bakersfield, California television stations, for approximately $55 million in cash. The purchase price of this acquisition was paid with existing cash and proceeds from our sale of Safeco Corporation common stock. If we make acquisitions in the future, we may need to use more of our existing cash, incur more debt, or issue equity securities, and we may incur contingent liabilities and amortization and/or impairment expenses related to intangible assets. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will find other attractive acquisition candidates or effectively manage the integration of acquired stations into our existing business. If the expected operating efficiencies from acquisitions do not materialize, if we fail to integrate new stations or recently acquired stations into our existing business, if the costs of such integration exceed expectations or if undertaking such sales or acquisitions diverts management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, television station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. Radio and television programming revenue may be negatively affected by the cancellation of syndication agreements. Syndication agreements are licenses to broadcast programs that are produced by production companies. Such programming can form a significant component of a station’s programming schedule. Syndication agreements are subject to cancellation, which may affect a station’s programming schedule, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire rights to syndicated programs once our current contracts for these programs end. Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt, in the form of 8.625% senior notes due 2014, in the aggregate principal amount of $150 million. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to the current general adverse economic and industry conditions and resulting downturn in our business; 25 • reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general business purposes; • reduce the funds available to purchase the rights to television and radio programs; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industries, making us more vulnerable to economic downturns, including the current one; • limit our ability to raise additional funding; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. If our indebtedness produces such adverse effects, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could suffer, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Furthermore, the indenture governing our 8.625% senior notes due 2014 permits us to incur additional debt only if we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with other covenants. Refer to Note 10 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the covenants included in the indenture. The failure to comply with the covenants in the indenture could be an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of the notes payment obligations. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion on our debt. The non-renewal, modification, or cancellation of affiliation agreements with major television networks, including our affiliation agreements with ABC Television Network for KOMO and KATU, could harm our operating results. Each of our television stations’ affiliation with one of the major television networks has a significant impact on the composition of the station’s programming, revenue, expenses and operations. In some instances, network affiliation agreements are not renewed, or in limited circumstances, may be cancelled by the network. For example, if a network acquires a television station in a market in which we own a station affiliated with that network, the network will likely decline to renew the affiliation agreement for our station in that market. Our two largest television stations, KOMO, which broadcasts in Seattle, Washington, and KATU, which broadcasts in Portland, Oregon, have affiliation agreements with ABC with current terms expiring in August 2009. While we expect to renew such affiliation agreements prior to expiration, there can be no assurances that we will do so at all, or on terms that are beneficial to the Company. In 2008, approximately 63% percent of our television broadcasting revenues (and approximately 45% of our total revenues) were derived from our two ABC-affiliated stations. Consequently, if we are unable to renew our ABC affiliation agreements, our operating results would be materially adversely affected. The major network affiliations for our television stations other than KOMO and KATU are with CBS or Fox. Our affiliation agreements with CBS generally expire in February 2016. Our only affiliation agreement with the FOX Network generally expires in June 2010. Although none of our affiliation agreements with CBS or FOX are scheduled for renewal in 2009, any modification, cancellation or eventual non-renewal of any of these agreements could harm our operating results. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include the following: • increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; • short term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; • costs of building a new or larger news operation and other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and 26 • the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network’s audience share and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network’s programming is accepted in an individual market. Changes in FCC regulations regarding ownership have increased the uncertainty surrounding the competitive position of our stations in the markets we serve. In June 2003, the FCC relaxed certain of its local media ownership rules, including its local television ownership limitations and its prohibition on common ownership of newspapers and broadcast stations in the same market. It also modified its local radio ownership limitations in a way that could limit our ability to acquire additional radio stations in existing markets that we serve. The FCC’s new rules were to have become effective on September 4, 2003 but were stayed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Then, in June 2004, the court remanded the new rules to the FCC with instructions to undertake additional analysis of the record in order to justify its decision. In September 2004 the Third Circuit court lifted its stay insofar as it applied to the modified local radio ownership rules, which are largely in effect. In all other respects the rules that were in effect prior to June 2003 will remain in effect until the appeals are resolved or the stay is lifted. In a remand order released in February 2008, the FCC liberalized its broadcast/newspaper cross-ownership rule. Because the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit stayed the effectiveness of any modifications to the ownership rules until it reviews the FCC’s compliance with its June 2004 order, the modified broadcast/newspaper rule will not go into effect until the court has completed its review. In its 2008 order, the FCC declined to modify its other ownership rules, including the local television ownership limitations. A number of media companies and public interest groups have challenged the FCC’s modification of the broadcast/newspaper cross-ownership rule and its retention of the other ownership rules. These challenges are pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Several public interest groups also have asked the FCC to reconsider its February 2008 order, and that request is pending. We cannot predict the outcome of these challenges or the effect that any particular outcome will have on our stations and business. Under existing law a single entity is permitted to have an attributable interest in television stations serving up to 39% of U.S. television households. Large broadcast groups may take advantage of this law to expand further their ownership interests on a national basis. We expect that the consolidation of ownership of broadcasting and newspapers in the hands of a smaller number of competitors would intensify the competition in our markets, which could harm our future operating results. The FCC’s extensive regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our ability to own and operate television and radio stations and other media outlets. The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Compliance with and the effects of existing and future regulations could have a material adverse impact on us. Issuance, renewal or transfer of broadcast station operating licenses requires FCC approval, and we cannot operate our stations without FCC licenses. Except for KATU, discussed below, FCC licenses for our various television and radio stations expire in 2013, 2014 or 2015. Failure to observe FCC rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of short-term (i.e., less than the full eight years) license renewals or, for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application or revocation of a license. While the majority of such licenses are renewed by the FCC, we cannot assure you that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates, or, if renewed, that the renewal terms will be for eight years. If the FCC decides to include conditions or qualifications in any of our licenses, we may be limited in the manner in which we may operate the affected stations. 27 On December 22, 2006, a petition to deny was filed by Oregon Alliance to Reform Media (“OARM”) against KATU and seven other television stations licensed to serve the Portland, Oregon market. OARM argued that the stations each failed to present adequate programming relating to state and local elections during the 2004 election cycle in their news and public affairs programming. The FCC’s Media Bureau rejected OARM’s petition. However, on September 14, 2007, OARM petitioned the FCC for reconsideration of that decision. That petition remains pending, and we cannot predict when or how the FCC will address it. The Communications Act and FCC rules impose specific limits on the number of stations and other media outlets an entity can own in a single market. The FCC attributes interests held by, among others, such entity’s officers, directors, certain stockholders, and in some circumstances, lenders, to that entity for purposes of applying these ownership limitations. The ownership rules may prevent us from acquiring additional stations in a particular market. We may also be prevented from engaging in a swap transaction if the swap would cause the other company to violate these rules. We may further be prevented from implementing certain joint operations with competitors which might make the operation of our stations more efficient. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and can be expected to continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may thereby affect our operating results. We will be required to make additional investments in DTV technology, which could harm our ability to fund other operations or repay debt. Although nearly all of our stations are operating within their FCC technical requirements, there are several exceptions. KVAL and KCBY will be transitioning back to their analog channels and work is nearing completion to accomplish these conversions. KIMA, KLEW and KBCI are currently operating at power levels or antenna heights less than that in their FCC allocations. KIMA and KBCI applied to increase transmission power during an FCC filing window in June 2008, and KBCI has completed the first phase of that power increase. KLEW continues to operate at a reduced antenna height pursuant to an FCC granted Special Temporary Authorization pending the analog shut down. The analog antenna can then be removed and the digital antenna repositioned to the top of the tower. We applied to change KUNP’s digital channel to that of the analog channel and “flash cut” to digital operation when analog operation ceases. This application was granted by the FCC. Additionally, during the FCC filing window in June 2008, KOMO, KPIC, KEPR, and KIDK filed applications to maximize coverage by relocating their digital antennas to the top of their towers once the analog antennas can be removed and for the relocation of KUNS to the KOMO transmitter site. During a filing window for low power stations in August 2008 KUNW and KVVK either applied for or modified existing construction permits for digital transmissions. These additional digital broadcasting investments by some of our stations could result in less cash being available to fund other aspects of our business or repay our debt. If we are unable to secure or maintain carriage of our television stations’ signals over cable and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, our television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to FCC rules, local television stations may elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the stations’ signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage. On or before October 1, 2008, consistent with FCC rules, each of our television stations sent notices to each of the cable systems in its market electing retransmission consent status for the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. Failure to reach timely retransmission consent agreements with the relevant cable operators may harm our business. There is no assurance that we will be able to agree on terms acceptable to us, which could lead to reduction in our cable earnings. Some of our television stations are located in markets in which direct-to-home satellite operators are distributing local television signals to their subscribers (“local into local”). Television stations in such markets have the opportunity to elect must-carry or retransmission consent status according to the same triennial cycle applicable to cable carriage, described above. Stations not sending such elections are deemed to have elected retransmission consent status, in which case the satellite operator may not retransmit that station’s signal without 28 the permission of the station after January 1, 2009. We have elected must-carry status from satellite providers for some of our stations in certain markets for the election period ending December 31, 2011, and for our other stations, we have elected retransmission consent status. Our stations in “local into local” markets are presently being carried by DirecTV, one of the two major direct-to-home satellite operators pursuant to an existing retransmission consent agreement. Failure to reach agreement with DirecTV prior to the expiration of the existing contract may harm our business. There is no assurance that we will be able to agree on terms acceptable to us prior to the contract’s expiration date. Our retransmission consent agreement with the other major direct-to-home satellite operator, DISH Network, expired on December 17, 2008. As a result, our television stations have not been carried by DISH Network since December 2008. We continue to be in talks with DISH Network to reach an agreement that will allow our stations to return to DISH Network. However, there can be no assurance as to the timing or terms of any such agreement or whether, in fact, an agreement will be reached. Until we reach an agreement with DISH Network, our business and financial results may continue to be adversely affected, possibly materially. Dependence on key personnel may expose us to additional risks. Our business is dependent on the performance of certain key employees, including executive officers and senior operational personnel. We do not enter into employment agreements with most of our key executive officers and senior operational personnel. We also employ several on-air personalities who have significant loyal audiences in their respective markets, with whom we have entered into employment agreements. We cannot assure you that all such key personnel or on-air personalities will remain with us or that our on-air personalities will renew their contracts. The loss of any key personnel could harm our operations and financial results. Failure of our information technology systems would disrupt our operations, which could reduce our customer base and result in lost revenue. Our computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, unauthorized tampering, system failures and potential obsolescence. Our operations depend on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers and computer systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Our computer systems are also subject to potential system failures and obsolescence. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data that would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our ownership and operation of Fisher Plaza is subject to risks, including those relating to the economic climate, local real estate conditions, potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, potential collection problems, reliance on significant tenants, and regulatory risks. Revenue and operating income from, and the value of, Fisher Plaza may be adversely affected by the general economic climate, the Seattle economic climate and real estate conditions, including prospective tenants’ perceptions of attractiveness of the property and the availability of space in other competing properties. In addition, the economic conditions in the telecommunications and high-tech sectors may significantly affect our ability to attract tenants to Fisher Plaza, because space at Fisher Plaza is marketed in significant part to organizations from these sectors. Other risks relating to the operation of Fisher Plaza include the potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, and the potential inability to collect rent, due to bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, especially in light of the current difficult economic environment. We also risk facing lower rents due to the current economic downturn and abundance of available commercial space in downtown Seattle. Real estate income and values may also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rent loss insurance with respect to Fisher Plaza. There are, however, certain losses that may be either uninsurable, not economically insurable, or in excess of our current insurance coverage limits. If an uninsured loss occurs with respect to Fisher Plaza, it could harm our operating results. 29 We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, if identified in future periods, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to audit and provide a separate opinion on their evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. If we or our independent registered public accountants discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Our operations may be adversely affected by earthquakes and other natural catastrophes in the Pacific Northwest or California. Our corporate headquarters, Fisher Plaza and the majority of our operations are located in the Pacific Northwest and we own two television stations in California. The Pacific Northwest and California have from time to time experienced earthquakes. We do not know the ultimate impact on our operations of being located near major earthquake faults, but an earthquake could harm our operating results. Our broadcasting towers may also be affected by other natural catastrophes, such as forest fires. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes or other natural catastrophes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 