Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a significant portion of our products with licenses from other parties. These licenses are limited in scope and duration, and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on a nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Our license agreement with HIT Entertainment for the Take Along Thomas & Friends die-cast product line will terminate at the end of 2009. This license agreement provides for a six month sell-off period following the license termination date. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net sales of our products under this license agreement accounted for over ten percent of our total net sales. We are making plans for new preschool products which we believe will replace, in future years, the sales volume related to the Take Along Thomas & Friends die-cast product line. Our license agreements have terms generally of two to three years. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our products or develop new products and reduce our net sales and profitability. Product recalls or claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs and harm our reputation and our relationship with retailers and licensors. Because we sell infant and toddler products, toys and collectibles to consumers, we face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. During 2008, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act was enacted. As a result the Consumer Product Safety Commission is adopting new regulations for safety and product testing that applies to substantially all of our products. These new regulations significantly tighten the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of children's products and also increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed our insurance coverage, and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. Product recalls may harm our reputation and consumer acceptance of the affected products or our other products, which may have an adverse effect on our net sales. The recalls may also harm our relationships with our retail customers, including the willingness of those customers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products and to support retailer driven promotions and advertising for our products. In addition, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate, under certain circumstances, if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations, or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management's attention and resources from our business. 8 During 2007, we conducted voluntary recalls of certain of our products. As a result of these recalls, we incurred charges related to these recalls, which included inventory return costs, consumer product replacement costs, shipping costs and fines and penalties, as well as donations, notice charges, claims administration and legal fees related to the settlement of the class action lawsuits stemming from the recalls, and we expensed as incurred other related legal and professional fees. Additionally, we made a cash payment to the licensor of the products that were recalled in connection with obtaining a release from indemnification claims. The charges and expenses we have incurred relating to our recalls may increase based on the amount of inventory of affected products at retailers, the amount of affected products that may be returned by consumers and the cost of providing replacement products to consumers and retailers. In addition, we may incur additional costs, such as settlements with regulatory agencies, or charges for litigation relating to the recalls, including the possibility of potential new claims or litigation. Any such additional charges or costs relating to the recalls may reduce our net sales and profitability. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. In addition, the trend of children "getting older younger," where children are losing interest in traditional toys and games at younger ages, may increase the pace of change of consumer preferences that affect the demand for our products. As a result of this trend, at younger and younger ages, our toys compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy industry. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions may negatively affect our business. If the recent decline in general economic conditions in the United States and other global markets in which we operate continues, or if consumers fear that economic conditions will continue to decline, consumers may reduce expenditures for products such as our products. Adverse changes may occur as a result of adverse global or regional economic conditions, fluctuating oil prices, declining consumer confidence, unemployment, fluctuations in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, bankruptcy or liquidity problems with our customers or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our products, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with producing and distributing our products. Additionally, our business is seasonal and, as a result, customers’ accounts receivable are generally highest during the fourth quarter, which coincides with the recent decline in general economic conditions, further increasing the exposure to losses from bad debts. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, with 23.0% of our net sales in 2008 denominated in British pounds sterling, Australian dollars, Euro dollars or Canadian dollars. Our purchases of finished goods from Chinese manufacturers are primarily denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are primarily denominated in Chinese Renminbi. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Hong Kong dollar or the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would increase our expenses, and therefore, could adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds or other transactions denominated in British pounds sterling, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars or Euro dollars from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States, such as for purchases of inventory by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, effectively in U.S. dollars. As a result, any material increase in the U.S. dollar relative to our foreign subsidiaries' local currencies would increase our expenses, and therefore, could adversely affect our profitability. Historically, we have not hedged our foreign currency risk. Our new credit agreement contains more restrictive debt covenants and payment terms and reduces our borrowing capacity, all of which may adversely affect our business, reduce our profitability and increase the risk of a default under the credit agreement. On November 3, 2008, we entered into a new $145.0 million senior credit facility to replace our previous facility. The credit agreement for the new credit facility includes more restrictive debt covenants than the previous credit agreement, including more restrictive financial covenants and limits on our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. Moreover, in certain circumstances the new credit facility may limit our ability to make acquisitions. The new credit agreement also increases the applicable margins for the interest rates on outstanding borrowings under the new credit facility, which may increase our interest expense and reduce our profitability. 9 The new credit agreement contains a clean down provision that limits the maximum amount of borrowings under the revolving line of credit for a period of 60 consecutive days in the first four calendar months of each of 2009, 2010 and 2011. The revolving line of credit borrowing limit under the clean down provision for the first four calendar months of 2009 will be $30.0 million and will decrease to $27.5 million for 2010 and $25.0 million for 2011. We had $20.1 million outstanding under our revolving line of credit as of December 31, 2008, and we were in compliance with the clean down provision for 2009 as of the date of filing of this report. We will also need to begin making payments of principal at a rate of $3.8 million per quarter on the term loan beginning on March 31, 2009. If we do not have sufficient cash flows from operations to reduce the outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit to comply with the clean down provision and to make payments of principal under the term loan, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing to avoid a default under the credit agreement. Such financing, if needed, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or may dilute or otherwise adversely affect the interests of our stockholders. The effect of the clean down provision, together with the reduction of borrowing capacity from $175.0 million under the previous credit facility to $145.0 million under the new credit facility, may reduce our access to working capital, which may adversely affect our business and our profitability. Increases in the cost of raw materials, labor and other costs used to manufacture our products could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. Since our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers, we do not directly purchase the raw materials used to manufacture our products. However, the prices we pay our suppliers may increase if their raw materials, labor or other costs increase. We may not be able to pass along such price increases to our customers. As a result, an increase in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs associated with the manufacturing of our products could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. For example, an increase in the price of zinc and resins, key raw materials in many of our products, and increased costs in China, primarily for labor, taxes and currency, reduced our gross margins in 2006, 2007 and 2008. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies such as Mattel, Inc. and Hasbro, Inc., with private label products sold by many of our retail customers and with other producers of toys, collectibles, and infant and toddler products. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the collectible, toy, and infant and toddler product industries have limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. 10 We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. We acquired Learning Curve International, Inc. (Learning Curve) and certain of its affiliates (collectively, LCI) effective February 28, 2003, Playing Mantis, Inc. (PM) effective June 1, 2004, The First Years Inc. (TFY) effective September 15, 2004, Angels Landing, Inc. (Angels Landing) effective May 24, 2007, and Mother's Intuition Inc. (MI) effective November 30, 2007. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks, including: ● the acquired business may experience losses that could adversely affect our profitability; ● unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; ● possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company; ● possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; ● difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; ● diversion of management's attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations; ● we may record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential impairment charges and we may also incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and ● unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Additionally, to finance our strategic acquisitions, we have borrowed funds under our credit facility and we may borrow additional funds to complete future acquisitions. Our new credit agreement may limit our ability to make acquisitions. This debt leverage could adversely affect our profit margins and limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities. All of our borrowing capacity is also subject to fluctuations in interest rates. We depend on the continuing willingness of chain retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. In 2008, approximately 70.3% of our net sales were to chain retailers. Our success depends upon the continuing willingness of these retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our access to shelf space at retailers may be reduced by store closings, stricter requirements for children's products by retailers that we may not be able to meet, consolidation among these retailers and competition from other products. An adverse change in our relationship with or the financial viability of one or more of our customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. 11 We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Many of our retail customers generally purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability or liquidity may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell. We maintain credit insurance for some of our major customers, and the amount of this insurance generally does not cover the total amount of the accounts receivable. At December 31, 2007 and 2008, our credit insurance covered 7.9% and 9.8%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable. Insurance coverage for future sales is subject to reduction or cancellation. We rely on a limited number of foreign suppliers in China to manufacture a majority of our products. We rely on eight third-party, dedicated suppliers in China to manufacture a significant portion of our products in eight factories, three of which are located in close proximity to each other in the RC2 Industrial Zone manufacturing complex and two of which are located in close proximity to each other in the LC Industrial Zone, both of which are located in China. Our China-based product sourcing accounted for approximately 90.0% of our product purchases in 2008. Third-party, dedicated suppliers who manufacture only our products accounted for 42.0% of our China-based product purchases in 2008. We enter into purchase orders with our foreign suppliers and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. Because we rely on these suppliers for flexible production and have integrated these suppliers with our development and engineering teams, if these suppliers do not continue to manufacture our products exclusively, our product sourcing would be adversely affected. Difficulties encountered by these suppliers, such as fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of a contagious disease at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. Any of these risks could increase our expenses or reduce our net sales. Because we rely on foreign suppliers and we sell products in foreign markets, we are susceptible to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: ● economic and political instability; ● restrictive actions by foreign governments; ● greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; ● changes in import duties or import or export restrictions; ● timely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to our warehouses and/or a customer's warehouse; ● complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes; and ● complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The cost of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws increases our expenses, and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. 12 Impairment charges could reduce our profitability. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," we test goodwill and our other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. We conduct testing for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $244.0 million, which was a 100.0% reduction of our goodwill, and $11.9 million for certain of our indefinite lived intangible assets, as a result of our annual SFAS No. 142 test. An amendment to our new credit facility was obtained to exclude the effect of these impairment charges on our financial covenants. At December 31, 2008, we had other intangible assets of $82.5 million, or approximately 24.5% of our total assets, and no remaining goodwill. Various uncertainties, including changes in consumer preferences, deterioration in the political environment, continued adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions, could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by an intangible asset or group of intangible assets, and may result in an impairment of those assets. Although such an impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, any impairment or change in the useful lives of the intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. If we are required to record an impairment charge, the charge could affect our compliance with the debt covenants in our new credit facility. Additionally, should we violate a covenant under our new credit facility, the cost of obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, or the lenders could be unwilling to provide a waiver or agree to an amendment. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. Our industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding trademark and patent infringement and other intellectual property rights. We are and have been a defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims and claims of breach of license from time to time, and we may continue to be subject to such claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. Sales of our products are seasonal, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of our products are seasonal. Historically, our net sales and profitability have peaked in the third and fourth quarters due to the holiday season buying patterns. Seasonal variations in operating results may cause us to increase our debt levels and interest expense in the first and second quarters. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may become volatile again in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: ● our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; ● changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; ● the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; ● fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; ● substantial sales of our common stock; ● general stock market conditions; or ● other economic or external factors. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. 13 We may face future securities class action lawsuits that could require us to pay damages or settlement costs and otherwise harm our business. Future volatility in the price of our common stock may result in securities class action lawsuits against us, which may require that we pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage and incur substantial legal costs, and which may divert management's attention and resources from our business. Various restrictions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us that is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our credit agreement that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: ● advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders' meetings; ● covenants in our credit agreement restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreement that triggers an event of default upon the acquisition by a person or a group of persons of beneficial ownership of 33 1/3% or more of our outstanding common stock; and ● the Delaware anti-takeover statute contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger, consolidation, asset sale or other similar business combination between RC2 and any stockholder of 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years after the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, unless (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, (2) upon completing the transaction the stockholder owns at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the commencement of the transaction, or (3) the transaction is approved by our board of directors and the holders of 66 2/3% of our voting stock, excluding shares of our voting stock owned by the stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 14 Item 