ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and future results could be harmed. 18 Table of Contents We depend on advertising revenues, which fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Our main source of revenue is sales of advertising. Our ability to sell advertising depends on many factors, including the following: • the health of the national economy, and particularly the economy of the Northwest region and Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon; • the popularity of our programming; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; • pricing fluctuations in local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, particularly network, cable television, direct satellite television and radio, and the Internet; • the use of new services and devices which allow viewers to minimize commercial advertisements, such as satellite radio and personal digital video recorders; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. A decrease in advertising revenue from an adverse change in any of the above factors could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Excluding revenue from our Seattle Radio agreement to broadcast Seattle Mariners baseball games during the regular baseball season, seasonal fluctuations typically result in second and fourth quarter broadcasting revenue being greater than first and third quarter broadcasting revenue. This seasonality is primarily attributable to increased consumer advertising in the spring and then increased retail advertising in anticipation of holiday season spending. Furthermore, revenue from political advertising is typically higher in election years. Revenue from broadcasting Seattle Mariners baseball games is greatest in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. We have incurred losses in the past. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain profitability. We had income from continuing operations before income taxes of $8.9 million in 2006. In 2005, we had a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $15.7 million, and in 2004 we had a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $21.3 million. We cannot assure you that our recent improvement in performance or our plans to improve operating performance will be successful or that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. Our operating results are dependent on the success of programming aired by our television and radio stations. Our television advertising revenues are dependent on the success of our news, network and syndicated programming. We make significant commitments to acquire rights to television and radio programs under multi-year agreements. The success of such programs is dependent partly upon unpredictable factors such as audience preferences, competing programming, and the availability of other entertainment activities. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising to cover the costs of the program. In some instances, we may have to replace or cancel programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase operating costs. Our Seattle and Portland television stations, which account for approximately three-fourths of our television broadcasting revenue, are affiliated with the ABC Television Network, eight of our television stations are affiliated with the CBS Television Network (including a 50%-owned television station), and the remainder of our television stations are affiliated with Univision or Telefutura, a division of Univision. Weak performance by ABC, a decline in performance by CBS, or a change in performance by other networks or network program suppliers, could harm our business and results of operations. In May 2002, we acquired the radio broadcast rights for the Seattle Mariners baseball team for a term of six years, beginning with the 2003 baseball season. The success of this programming is dependent on some factors 19 Table of Contents beyond our control, such as the competitiveness of the Seattle Mariners and the successful marketing of the team by the team’s owners. If the Seattle Mariners fail to maintain a significant fan base, the number of listeners to our radio broadcasts may decrease, which would harm our ability to generate anticipated advertising dollars. Competition in the broadcasting industry and the rise of alternative entertainment and communications media may result in loss of audience share and advertising revenue by our stations. Our television and radio stations face intense competition, including competition from the following sources: • local network affiliates and independent stations; • cable, direct broadcast satellite and alternative methods of broadcasting brought about by technological advances and innovations, such as pay-per-view and home video and entertainment systems; and • other sources of news, information and entertainment, such as streaming video broadcasts over the Internet, podcasting, newspapers, movie theaters and live sporting events. In addition to competing with other media outlets for audience share, we also compete for advertising revenue that comprises our primary source of revenue. Our stations compete for such advertising revenue with other television and radio stations in their respective markets, as well as with other advertising media such as newspapers, the Internet, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directory, direct mail and local cable systems. The results of our operations will be dependent upon the ability of each station to compete successfully in its market, and there can be no assurance that any one of our stations will be able to maintain or increase its current audience share or revenue share. To the extent that certain of our competitors have, or may in the future obtain, greater resources, our ability to compete successfully in our broadcasting markets may be impeded. Because significant portions of our cost of services are relatively fixed, downturns in the economy harm our operations, revenue, cash flow and earnings. Our operations are concentrated in the Northwest. The Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon markets are particularly important for our financial well-being. Operating results over the past several years were adversely impacted by a soft regional economy, and any weak economic conditions in these markets would harm our operations and financial condition. Because significant portions of our costs of services are relatively fixed, we may be unable to materially reduce costs if our revenues decline. If our revenues do not increase or if they decline, we could continue to suffer net losses, or such net losses could increase. In addition, downturns in the national economy or downturns in significant categories of national advertising segments have historically resulted (and may in the future result) in decreased national advertising sales. This could harm our results of operations because national advertising sales represent a significant portion of our television advertising net revenue. We may experience disruptions in our business if we sell or acquire and integrate new television or radio stations. As part of our business strategy, we plan to continue to evaluate opportunities to sell or acquire television and radio stations. During 2006, we completed the acquisitions of a full power television station serving the Seattle-Tacoma, Washington television market, a full power television and a low power television station serving the Portland, Oregon market and two Idaho low power television stations. The combined purchase price of $36.3 million was paid through the use of existing cash, borrowing on our $20.0 million revolving line of credit, and proceeds from the sale of 18 small-market radio stations for $26.1 million. If we make acquisitions in the future, we may need to incur more debt or issue more equity securities, and we may incur contingent liabilities and amortization and/or impairment expenses related to intangible assets. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will find other attractive acquisition candidates or effectively manage the integration of acquired stations into our existing business. If the expected operating efficiencies from acquisitions do not materialize, if we fail to integrate new stations or recently acquired stations into our existing business, if the costs of such integration exceed expectations or if undertaking such sales or acquisitions diverts management’s attention from normal daily 20 Table of Contents operations of the business, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Any of these occurrences could harm our operating results and financial condition. Radio and television programming revenue may be negatively affected by the cancellation of syndication agreements. Syndication agreements are licenses to broadcast programs that are produced by production companies. Such programming can form a significant component of a station’s programming schedule. Syndication agreements are subject to cancellation, and such cancellations may affect a station’s programming schedule. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire rights to syndicated programs once our current contracts for these programs expire. We may enter into syndication agreements for programs that prove unsuccessful, and our payment commitment may extend until or if the syndicator cancels the program. Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our 8.625% senior notes due 2014 We currently have a substantial amount of debt. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; • reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general business purposes; • reduce the funds available to purchase the rights to television and radio programs; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industries, making us more vulnerable to economic downturns; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to make certain asset dispositions. If our indebtedness affects our operations in these ways, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could suffer, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Furthermore, the indenture governing our 8.625% senior notes due 2014 and our senior credit facility may permit us to incur additional debt only if we meet certain financial and other covenants. The non-renewal or modification of affiliation agreements with major television networks could harm our operating results. Each of our television stations’ affiliation with one of the major television networks has a significant impact on the composition of the station’s programming, revenue, expenses and operations. Our two largest television stations, KOMO, which broadcasts in Seattle, Washington, and KATU, which broadcasts in Portland, Oregon, have affiliation agreements with ABC into August 2009. In 2006, approximately three-fourths of our television broadcasting revenues (and nearly half of our total revenues) were derived from our ABC affiliated stations. During May 2005, we renewed our affiliation agreements with ABC Television Network, the terms of which included reduced network compensation from ABC. In January 2006, we renewed our affiliation agreements with CBS into February 2016. The terms of our agreements with CBS likewise include reduced network compensation. During November of 2006, we entered into affiliation agreements with Univision for five of our Spanish-language television stations for terms extending into 2011. If a network acquires a television station in a market in which we own a station affiliated with that network, the network will likely decline to renew the affiliation agreement for our station in that market. The non-renewal or modification of any of the network affiliation agreements could harm our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Changes in FCC regulations regarding ownership have increased the uncertainty surrounding the competitive position of our stations in the markets we serve. In June 2003, the FCC amended its multiple ownership rules, including, among other things, its local television ownership limitations, its prohibition on common ownership of newspapers and broadcast stations in the same market, as well as its local radio ownership limitations. Under the amended rules, a single entity would be permitted to own up to three television stations in a single market, to own more than one television station in markets with fewer independently owned stations, and the rules would allow consolidated newspaper and broadcast ownership and operation in several of our markets. The new radio multiple ownership rules could limit our ability to acquire additional radio stations in existing markets that we serve. The effectiveness of these new rules was stayed pending appeal. In June 2004, a federal court of appeals issued a decision which upheld portions of the FCC decision adopting the rules, but concluded that the order failed to adequately support numerous aspects of those rules, including the specific numeric ownership limits adopted by the FCC. The court remanded the matter to the FCC for revision or further justification of the rules, retaining jurisdiction over the matter. The court has partially maintained its stay of the effectiveness of those rules, particularly as they relate to television. The rules are now largely in effect as they relate to radio. The Supreme Court has declined to review the matter at this time, and the FCC must review the matter and issue a revised order. We cannot predict whether, how or when the new rules will be modified, ultimately implemented as modified, or repealed in their entirety. Legislation went into effect in January 2004 that permits a single entity to own television stations serving up to 39% of U.S. television households, an increase over the previous 35% cap. Large broadcast groups may take advantage of this law to expand further their ownership interests on a national basis. We expect that the consolidation of ownership of broadcasting and newspapers in the hands of a smaller number of competitors would intensify the competition in our markets. The FCC’s extensive regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our ability to own and operate television and radio stations and other media outlets. The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Compliance with and the effects of existing and future regulations could have a material adverse impact on us. Issuance, renewal or transfer of broadcast station operating licenses requires FCC approval, and we cannot operate our stations without FCC licenses. Some of our television FCC licenses expired in 2006 and 2007, and we continue to operate those stations while license renewal applications for these stations remain pending; others will expire in 2014 and 2015. Our radio station FCC licenses expire in 2013 and 2014. Failure to observe FCC rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of short-term (i.e., less than the full eight years) license renewals or, for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application or revocation of a license. While the majority of such licenses are renewed by the FCC, we cannot assure you that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates, or, if renewed, that the renewal terms will be for eight years. If the FCC decides to include conditions or qualifications in any of our licenses, we may be limited in the manner in which we may operate the affected stations. On December 22, 2006, a petition to deny was filed by Oregon Alliance to Reform Media (“OARM”) against KATU and seven other television stations licensed to serve the Portland, Oregon market. OARM argues that the stations each failed to present adequate programming relating to state and local elections during the 2004 election campaign in their news and public affairs programming. In conformity with FCC rules, we continue to operate KATU pending final action on the KATU license renewal application. We cannot predict when or how the FCC will address this petition or act on the KATU renewal application. Action on many television license renewal applications, including those of KOMO-TV, KVAL, KIDK-TV and KBCI, has been delayed because of the pendency of complaints that network programming aired by the stations’ networks contained indecent material. In conformity with FCC rules, we continue to operate these stations pending final action on their license renewal applications. We cannot predict when or how the FCC will address these complaints or act on the renewal applications. 22 Table of Contents The Communications Act and FCC rules impose specific limits on the number of stations and other media outlets an entity can own in a single market. The FCC attributes interests held by, among others, such entity’s officers, directors, certain stockholders, and in some circumstances, lenders, to that entity for purposes of applying these ownership limitations. The ownership rules may prevent us from acquiring additional stations in a particular market. We may also be prevented from engaging in a swap transaction if the swap would cause the other company to violate these rules. We may also be prevented from implementing certain joint operations with competitors which might make the operation of our stations more efficient. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and can be expected to continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may thereby affect our operating results. We will be required to make additional investments in HDTV technology, which could harm our ability to fund other operations or repay debt. Although most of our full power television stations currently comply with FCC rules requiring such stations to broadcast in high definition television (“HDTV”), our Yakima and Lewiston stations do not, because they are operating pursuant to special temporary authorizations issued by the FCC to utilize low power digital facilities. In addition, KUNP is not broadcasting in digital because it was not granted a digital channel by the FCC. The FCC’s rules require that full power television licensees that have been granted digital channels have constructed and filed license applications for their digital facilities or have requested a waiver of the deadline by July 7, 2006, or they will lose interference protection for their digital channel. Moreover, it is possible that some of our stations will be required or will elect to operate with increased power at the end of the digital transition. These additional digital broadcasting investments by some of our stations could result in less cash being available to fund other aspects of our business. The FCC has adopted a multi-step channel election and repacking process through which broadcast licenses and permittees will select their ultimate DTV channel. The process is currently underway, and we have been granted permanent digital channels for each of our stations except KUNP, for which our channel request remains pending. We are unable to predict at this time whether our channel request for KUNP will be granted or which DTV channel we will be able to obtain through this process. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue if we are unable to reach agreement with cable and satellite companies regarding the retransmission of signals of our television stations. By October 1, 2005, each of our television stations sent notices to cable systems in their market electing must-carry or retransmission consent status for the period from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008. Stations electing must-carry may require carriage of their signal on certain channels on cable systems within their market, whereas cable companies are prohibited from carrying the signals of stations electing retransmission consent unless an agreement between the station and the cable provider has been negotiated. We have elected must-carry for some stations in certain markets for the election period ending December 31, 2008. We have elected retransmission consent status with respect to a number of key cable systems. Some of our television stations are located in markets in which direct-to-home satellite operators are distributing local television signals to their subscribers (“local into local”). Television stations in such markets had the opportunity to elect must-carry status by sending written elections to such satellite operators by October 1, 2005. Stations not sending such elections automatically elect retransmission consent status, in which case the satellite operator may not retransmit that station’s signal without the permission of the station after January 1, 2006. Our stations in “local into local” markets are presently being carried by both major direct-to-home satellite operators pursuant to existing retransmission consent agreements, one of which will expire December 17, 2008, and the other on May 31, 2009. Failure to reach agreement with the relevant satellite operators prior to the expiration of the existing contracts may harm our business. There is no assurance that we will be able to agree on terms acceptable to us prior to contract expiration dates. Dependence on key personnel may expose us to additional risks. Our business is dependent on the performance of certain key employees, including executive officers and senior operational personnel. We do not enter into employment agreements with all of our key executive officers and senior operational personnel. We also employ several on-air personalities who have significant loyal audiences 23 Table of Contents in their respective markets, with whom we have entered into employment agreements. We cannot assure you that all such key personnel or on-air personalities will remain with us or that our on-air personalities will renew their contracts. The loss of any key personnel could harm our operations and financial results. A reduction on the periodic dividend on the common stock of Safeco Corporation may adversely affect our other income, cash flow and earnings. A reduction in the share price of Safeco Corporation may adversely affect our total assets and stockholders’ equity. We own approximately 3.0 million shares of the common stock of Safeco Corporation, which, at December 31, 2006, represented 38% of our assets and approximately 51% of our stockholders’ equity (the appreciation in Safeco stock is presented, after estimated taxes, as “unrealized gain on marketable securities” within stockholders’ equity). Our investment in Safeco Corporation provided $3.3 million in dividend income in 2006, $2.8 million in 2005, and $2.3 million in 2004. If Safeco Corporation reduces its periodic dividends, it will negatively affect our cash flow and earnings. Failure of our information technology systems would disrupt our operations, which could reduce our customer base and result in lost revenue. Our computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, unauthorized tampering, system failures and potential obsolescence. Our operations depend on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers and computer systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Our computer systems are also subject to potential system failures and obsolescence. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data that would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our ownership and operation of Fisher Plaza is subject to risks, including those relating to the economic climate, local real estate conditions, potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, potential collection problems, reliance on significant tenants, and regulatory risks. Revenue and operating income from, and the value of, Fisher Plaza may be adversely affected by the general economic climate, the Seattle economic climate and real estate conditions, including prospective tenants’ perceptions of attractiveness of the property and the availability of space in other competing properties. In addition, the economic conditions in the telecommunications and high-tech sectors may significantly affect our ability to attract tenants to Fisher Plaza, since space at Fisher Plaza is marketed in significant part to organizations from these sectors. Other risks relating to the operation of Fisher Plaza include the potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, and the potential inability to collect rent, due to bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise. Real estate income and values may also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rent loss insurance with respect to Fisher Plaza. There are, however, certain losses that may be either uninsurable, not economically insurable, or in excess of our current insurance coverage limits. If an uninsured loss occurs with respect to Fisher Plaza, it could harm our operating results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, if identified in future periods, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to audit and report on management’s assessment, as well as provide a separate opinion on their evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or 24 Table of Contents maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. If we or our independent registered public accountants discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Our operations may be adversely affected by earthquakes and other natural catastrophes in the Northwest. Our corporate headquarters and all of our operations are located in the Northwest. The Northwest has from time to time experienced earthquakes and experienced a significant earthquake on February 28, 2001. We do not know the ultimate impact on our operations of being located near major earthquake faults, but an earthquake could harm our operating results. Our broadcasting towers may also be affected by other natural catastrophes, such as forest fires. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes or other natural catastrophes. A write-down of goodwill or intangible assets would harm our operating results. Approximately $74 million, or 15% of our total assets as of December 31, 2006, consists of goodwill and intangible assets. Goodwill and intangible assets are tested at the reporting unit level annually or whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or intangible assets might be impaired. If impairment is indicated as a result of future evaluations, we would record an impairment charge in accordance with accounting rules. Foreign hostilities and terrorist attacks may affect our revenue and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and foreign hostilities cause regularly scheduled programming to be pre-empted by commercial-free network news coverage of these events, which would result in lost advertising revenue. In the future, we may experience a loss of advertising revenue and incur additional broadcasting expenses in the event that there is a terrorist attack against the United States or if the United States engages in foreign hostilities. As a result, advertising may not be aired, and the revenue for the advertising on such days would be lost, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period in which this occurs. In addition, there can be no assurance that advertisers will agree to run such advertising in future time periods or that space will be available for such advertising. We cannot predict the duration of such pre-emption of local programming if it occurs. In addition, our broadcasting stations may incur additional expenses as a result of expanded local news coverage of the local impact of a war or terrorist attack. The loss of revenue and increased expenses could harm our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 