Risk Factors; Our business could be adversely affected by labor interruptions.” FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS Prior to the closing of the Arcelor Transaction on August 31, 2007, we had historically classified our operations into one industry segment operating in the automotive industry. As a result of the Arcelor Transaction and subsequent reorganization of our business, we identified the following two operating segments as of December 31, 2007, which are based upon geographical areas (region of production): • North America, which includes our operations in the United States, Canada and Mexico • Europe and Rest of World, which includes our operations in Europe, Australia and Asia Both segments perform laser-welding and metal processing activities for the automotive industry. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States such as changes in currency exchange rates, price and currency exchange controls, import restrictions, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action. 8 Table of Contents For additional information about segments and geographic areas, see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 18—Segment Information.” Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors are important and should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, the following factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. Our business is subject to all of the risks associated with substantial leverage, including that available cash may not be adequate to make required payments, and we may not comply with our credit facilities. To finance our operations, including costs related to various acquisitions, we have incurred indebtedness. Our credit facilities are subject to customary financial and other covenants including, but not limited to, limitations on debt, consolidations, mergers, sales of assets, and bank approval on certain acquisitions. Our credit facilities are also secured by the equity interests of our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets. Our ability to satisfy outstanding debt obligations from cash flow is dependent upon our future performance and is subject to financial, business and other factors, many of which may be beyond our control. In the event that we do not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our repayment obligations, we would be in default under the agreements pursuant to which such obligations were incurred, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that we are required to use cash resources to satisfy interest payments to the holders of outstanding debt obligations, we will have fewer resources available for other purposes. We may increase our leverage in the future, whether as a result of operational or financial performance, acquisition or otherwise. We are subject to certain financial and other restrictive covenants pursuant to our credit facilities. We may not be able to meet all the covenants under each of our credit agreements and, if we do not meet a covenant obligation, we may be subject to a notice of default under such agreement. The credit agreements governing our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants, the violation of which could result in a notice of default under such agreements. When we have not been able to meet our covenant obligations, we have been able to obtain waivers of such covenant requirements or amendments to the credit agreements. In the future, however, we may not be able to obtain a waiver or consent in the event of a default. We can give no assurance that we will be able to amend or obtain a permanent waiver of the covenants in the event that we are unable to meet the requirements of such covenants. If we are unable to amend or obtain a permanent waiver from compliance with the covenants by the date stated in such agreement, the lenders could exercise their remedies against us, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, we were not in compliance with all of our covenants under the European Credit Facility (as hereinafter defined), but we subsequently received a waiver from the syndicate of commercial banks with respect to any defaults based on such non-compliance. This waiver is effective until May 2, 2008, at which date we would be in default unless the covenants are formally amended. This waiver is contingent upon us making a €20.0 million prepayment on the European Term Loan (as hereinafter defined). Such prepayment amount shall be funded by the proceeds of subordinated debt provided to us by ArcelorMittal or a mutually agreed upon alternative solution. We are in discussions with the lenders under the European Credit Facility regarding an amendment or permanent waiver to avoid potential future covenant defaults. If we do not make our periodic filings with the SEC in a timely manner, our stock may be delisted. On April 3, 2008, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) notifying us that Nasdaq did not receive our Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007 as required by applicable Nasdaq marketplace rules, and that, accordingly, subject to our right to request an appeal, trading of our common stock will be suspended at the opening of business on April 14, 2008 and our securities will be removed from listing and registration on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Subsequent to our receipt of this letter, we filed an appeal with Nasdaq, which has resulted in a stay of the trading suspension and the delisting of our common stock, pending the outcome of the appeal. If the outcome of the appeal is not resolved in our favor, and if the trading of our common stock is suspended for a material amount of time and/or if we are delisted, an investor would find it 9 Table of Contents difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail, which might also materially affect our ability to raise capital and, thus, affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by the cyclicality and seasonality of the automotive industry. The automotive industry is highly cyclical and dependent on consumer spending. Economic factors adversely affecting automotive production and consumer spending could adversely impact our business. In addition, the automotive component supply industry is somewhat seasonal. Our need for continued significant expenditures for capital equipment purchases, equipment development and ongoing manufacturing improvement and support, among other factors, makes it difficult for us to reduce operating expenses in a particular period if our net sales forecasts for such period are not met because a substantial component of our operating expenses are fixed. Generally, net sales and operating profit increase during the second calendar quarter of each year as a result of the automotive industry’s spring selling season, which is the peak sales and production period of the year. Net sales and operating profit generally decrease during July and December of each year as a result of changeovers in production lines for new model years as well as scheduled OEM plant shutdowns for vacations and holidays. Our historical results of operations have generally not reflected typical cyclical or seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating profit. The acquisitions and divestitures completed by us and new product sales growth have resulted in a growth trend through successive periods, which has masked the effect of typical seasonal fluctuations. We may not continue our historical growth trend, return to profitability, or conform to industry norms for seasonality in future periods. The loss of any significant customer or the failure of any significant customer to pay amounts due to us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to the automotive industry accounted for substantially all of our net sales in 2007. In addition, our automotive sales are highly concentrated among a few major OEMs and Tier I suppliers. As is typical in the automotive supply industry, we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Our customers provide annual estimates of their requirements; however, sales are made on a short-term purchase order basis. There is substantial and continuing pressure from the major OEMs and Tier I suppliers to reduce costs, including the cost of products purchased from outside suppliers. If in the future we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings to offset price reductions, our operating profit could be adversely affected. Acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. The automotive component supply industry is undergoing consolidation as OEMs seek to reduce both their costs and their supplier base. Future acquisitions may be made to enable us to expand into new geographic markets, add new customers, provide new products, expand manufacturing and service capabilities and increase automotive model market penetration with existing customers. We may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or in combining operations with such candidates if they are identified. It should be noted that any acquisitions could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including difficulties in assimilation of the acquired company’s operations following consummation of the acquisition, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of producing products we have limited experience with, the potential loss of key customers of the acquired company, and the inability of pre-acquisition due diligence to identify all possible issues that may arise with respect to products of the acquired company. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations acquired in the Arcelor Transaction involves numerous risks, including designing and implementing internal controls over financial reporting at those locations. We may not be able to ensure that all such internal controls over financial reporting are operating effectively. We may be unable to remediate our material weaknesses in audit committee composition and sufficiency of accounting personnel at our roll-forming business headquarters location. This failure and any failure in the future to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business. Such noncompliance could result in perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others being adversely affected. We may not be able to 10 Table of Contents complete our remediation plans designed to address the identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and continue to attract additional qualified accountants to assist in completing such plans and maintaining compliance programs. The failure to successfully complete our remediation plans could adversely affect our business. For additional information see “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” Our business may be adversely affected by the failure to obtain business on new and redesigned model introductions. Our automotive product lines are subject to change as our customers, including both OEMs and Tier I suppliers, introduce new or redesigned products. We compete for new business both at the beginning of the development phase of new vehicle models, which generally begins two to five years prior to the marketing of such models to the public, and upon the redesign of existing models. Our net sales would be adversely affected if we fail to obtain business on new models, fail to retain or increase business on redesigned existing models, if our customers do not successfully introduce new products incorporating our products, or if market demand for these new products does not develop as anticipated. Our business faces substantial competition. Markets for all of our products are extremely competitive. We compete based upon a variety of factors, including engineering, product design, process capability, quality, cost, delivery and responsiveness. In addition, with respect to certain of our products, we face competition from divisions of our OEM customers. Our business may be adversely affected by competition, and we may not be able to maintain our profitability if the competitive environment changes. We are dependent upon the continuous improvement of our production technologies. Our ability to continue to meet customer demands within our automotive operations with respect to performance, cost, quality and service will depend, in part, upon our ability to remain technologically competitive with our production processes. New automotive products are increasingly complex, require increased welding precision, use of various materials and have to be run at higher production speeds and with lower scrap ratios to reduce costs. The investment of significant additional capital or other resources may be required to meet this continuing challenge. If we are unable to improve our production technologies, we may lose business and our business could be adversely affected. Our up-front dedication of design and engineering resources may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. Within the automotive industry, OEMs and Tier I suppliers require their suppliers to provide design and engineering input during the product development process. The direct costs of design and engineering are generally borne by our customers. However, we bear the indirect cost associated with the allocation of design and engineering resources to such product development projects. Despite our up-front dedication of design and engineering resources, our customers are under no obligation to order the subject components or systems from us following their development. In addition, when we deem it strategically advisable, we may also bear the direct up-front design and engineering costs as well. We are subject to U.S. and global economic risks and uncertainties. Demand in the automotive industry is significantly dependent on the U.S. and the global economies, and our business and profitability are exposed to current and future uncertainties. Demand in the automotive industry fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels, consumer confidence and fuel costs. The threat or act of terrorism and war, higher energy costs, the housing and mortgage crisis, and other recent developments have adversely affected consumer confidence throughout the U.S. and much of the world, and exacerbated the uncertainty in our markets. The future impact resulting from changes in economic conditions is difficult to predict. Our results of operations would be harmed by any sustained weakness in demand or continued downturn in the economy. Our net sales are impacted by automotive retail inventory levels and production schedules. In recent years, OEM customers have significantly reduced their production and inventory levels due to the uncertain economic environment. It is extremely difficult to predict future production rates and inventory levels for such OEM customers. Any additional decline in production rates or inventory levels would adversely affect our operating results. 11 Table of Contents We are under pressure from our customers to reduce prices. We and other suppliers to the automotive markets face continued price reduction pressure from our customers. The U.S.-based OEMs, in particular, have experienced significant market share erosion to non-U.S.-based OEMs over the past few years, thereby putting pressure on their profitability. The U.S.-based OEMs respond by pressuring their suppliers, including us, to reduce the prices of products sold. To the extent this trend continues, the price reduction pressures experienced will be ongoing. While we constantly strive to sustain and improve our margins through a variety of efforts, we may not be able to maintain or improve our operating results in the face of such price reduction pressures. Our business could be adversely affected by labor interruptions. Within the automotive supply industry, substantially all of the hourly employees of the OEMs and many Tier I suppliers are represented by labor unions and work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. The failure of any of our significant customers to reach agreement with a labor union on a timely basis, resulting in either a work stoppage or strike, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have collective bargaining agreements with several unions, including: the United Auto Workers, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the Confederation of Mexican Workers and the Confederation of Workers & Farm Laborers in Mexico. In addition, the majority of our European employees are members of industrial trade union organizations and confederations within their respective countries. Although no facility has been subject to a strike, lockout or other major work stoppage, any such incident would have a material adverse effect on our operating profit. We may incur losses as a result of product liability exposure. As a supplier to the automotive market, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if the failure of one of our products results in personal injury or death. Material product liability losses may occur in the future. In addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but there can be no assurance that such coverage may be adequate or may continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Although we have made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements, these requirements are constantly evolving, and it is impossible to predict whether compliance with these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us in the future. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties or from any of our disposals at offsite disposal locations, or if contamination is discovered at any of our current or former properties, we may be held liable, and the amount of such liability could be material. Our ability to operate efficiently may be impaired if we lose key personnel. Our operations and the integration of our new European operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in the areas of finance, accounting, engineering, operations and management, and are greatly influenced by the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. We have employment agreements with several executive officers. We do not maintain key-person life insurance coverage on our executives. Certain key personnel have the opportunity to return to ArcelorMittal for up to two years after the closing of the Arcelor Transaction. If a significant number of these individuals exercise this right, our ability to operate our European business could be significantly impaired. The operation of our new European business and the integration of this business with other operations depends significantly upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in the areas of finance, accounting, engineering, operations and management. Each key employee of our European business, as well as approximately 29 other employees, will have the opportunity to return to ArcelorMittal following the closing of the Arcelor Transaction for up to two years. ArcelorMittal has agreed not to solicit our employees, but we cannot prevent these 34 employees from returning to ArcelorMittal. If a significant number of these executives elect to return to ArcelorMittal, our ability to operate the European business and to integrate its operations with our other operations could be significantly impaired. We will be dependent on management in the various countries where the European facilities are located for their 12 Table of Contents customer contacts and their knowledge and experience, including their knowledge about local regulations and business customs. Loss of these executives could adversely affect our revenues in these countries. Our European business is dependent upon ArcelorMittal for various support functions including contract manufacturing, invoicing, collections, payroll, and other human resources functions. In addition, we are dependent upon ArcelorMittal for information technology support for up to four years after the closing of the Arcelor Transaction. The operations of our European business could be disrupted if there are problems in the provision of these support services. Because our European business has not been operated as a stand-alone business, we have entered into a number of agreements with ArcelorMittal providing for ArcelorMittal to provide support services to the European business for up to three years after closing of the Arcelor Transaction and four years for certain information technology products and services. ArcelorMittal provides payroll, human resources, administration, information technology, purchasing and other support services. We believe that these arrangements will facilitate the integration of the European business by allowing us to transition these various functions away from ArcelorMittal over a period of time. Currently, we do not have the personnel or other resources to perform all of these functions internally. If ArcelorMittal experiences problems in providing these support services or materially defaults under these agreements, we would be required to make alternative arrangements. Our net sales could be adversely affected, and our expenses could increase if we are required to assume these support functions earlier than projected. We are exposed to risks related to our reliance on our business relationship with ArcelorMittal. ArcelorMittal has granted us a royalty-free, perpetual exclusive license to certain patents and intellectual property used in our European business. The exclusivity of this license will lapse, and the license will continue on a non-exclusive basis, upon the latter of: (1) the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Arcelor Transaction; and (2) the date ArcelorMittal and its affiliates own fewer than 4,687,500 shares of our common stock. Both the limited time of exclusivity and any sale of ArcelorMittal’s shares are outside of our control. The loss of this exclusivity could result in competitors obtaining licenses from ArcelorMittal that could enable them to compete more effectively with us and result in a reduction in our net sales. Under a steel supply and services agreement, ArcelorMittal provides us, among other things, marketing, sales, after sales, credit risk, invoicing, collection and consulting services. We have only a small sales force in Europe. Under this agreement, Arcelor Auto serves as Noble’s sales representative and will promote the interests of our European business along with the interests of Arcelor Auto. If ArcelorMittal materially defaults on this agreement or otherwise fails to successfully sell our products, our net sales may be adversely affected. We are heavily dependent upon ArcelorMittal meeting our quantity and quality demands with regard to flat-rolled carbon steel in Europe. If ArcelorMittal’s production of steel should be disrupted or should ArcelorMittal’s production processes generate greater than usual defective products, we could face difficulties in delivering our products on time, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A change of control cannot occur unless ArcelorMittal transfers a significant portion of its shares of our common stock to third parties. As of the date of this Report, ArcelorMittal owns approximately 49.95% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, which gives ArcelorMittal substantial voting control to accept or reject a change in control proposal. The increase in ownership by ArcelorMittal is attributable to the fact that ArcelorMittal and our former chairman of the board and current director, Mr. Robert Skandalaris, executed and closed a sale option exercise agreement dated March 12, 2008 (“Exercise Agreement”), pursuant to which ArcelorMittal purchased 2,439,055 shares of our common stock held by Mr. Skandalaris. Moreover, as part of the Exercise Agreement, ArcelorMittal also has an option to purchase Mr. Skandalaris’ remaining 41,902 shares of our common stock. Unless ArcelorMittal transfers a significant portion of our common stock owned by it, it is not possible to effect a change of control without ArcelorMittal’s participation or approval, even if a change of control, such as a business combination at a premium to the trading price of our common stock, is in the best interests of our other stockholders. In addition, if ArcelorMittal were to convert the entire principal amount outstanding under the $50 million convertible subordinated note, ArcelorMittal would acquire up to an additional 19.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents The significant blocks of our common stock owned by ArcelorMittal could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ArcelorMittal has registration rights pursuant to which they may require us to register their shares of our common stock for resale under the Securities Act of 1933. See “Item 1. Business: Post-Closing Developments Related to the Arcelor Transaction” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 20—Subsequent Events.” Sales from time to time under the registration statements that we must file under the registration rights agreement could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the mere possibility of these sales could create an “overhang” that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may inhibit changes in control not approved by the board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions include: (i) a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents; (ii) a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors; (iii) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations and; (iv) limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the Bylaws. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have similar effects. The inability to effectively manage risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. We operate international production facilities in Canada, Mexico, Europe, and Australia and joint ventures in China and India. Our business strategy may include the further continued expansion of international operations. As we expand our international operations, we will increasingly be subject to the risks associated with such operations, including: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements; (iii) restrictions on the repatriation of funds; (iv) inflationary conditions; (v) political and economic instability; (vi) war or other hostilities; (vii) overlap of tax structures; and (viii) expropriation or nationalization of assets. The realization of any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Approximately 49.95% of the shares of common stock currently issued and outstanding are “restricted securities” as that term is defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Rule 144”) or “control securities” (as that term is used in Rule 144), and may not be sold unless they are registered or unless an exemption from registration, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144, is available. All of these restricted or control securities are currently eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144, subject in most cases to the volume and manner of sale limitations prescribed by Rule 144. Trading price volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the automotive industry, general economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and changes in securities analysts’ recommendations regarding our securities. The failure of SET Enterprises, Inc. (“SET”) could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. We currently hold $10.0 million face value of SET preferred stock and 4% of the issued and outstanding shares of SET common stock. The carrying values of our investments in SET’s preferred stock and common stock are zero as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we provide a $3.0 million guarantee of SET’s senior debt. This guarantee is reduced $0.5 million on a quarterly basis beginning in the first quarter 2008 if SET is in compliance with its debt covenants. The failure of SET’s business could materially adversely affect our financial condition if it resulted in SET’s inability to pay dividends or repay its senior debt resulting in our requirement to perform under the guarantee. In addition, our relationship with SET provides minority content in product sold to certain OEMs. These OEMs use a supplier’s percentage of minority content as a consideration when awarding new business. To the extent that we could not replace minority content provided by SET with content from another minority business enterprise, the failure of SET could affect the future award of new business. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 