Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a significant portion of our products with licenses from other parties. These licenses are limited in scope and duration, and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on a nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Our current license agreement with HIT Entertainment for the Thomas & Friends Wooden Railway product line expires at the end of 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2010, net sales of our products under this license agreement accounted for over ten percent of our total net sales. Any non-renewal of this license may have an adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Our intangible assets as of December 31, 2010, include approximately $32.0 million relating to this license. Based on expectations relating to the renewal of this license, we may need to record a charge for impairment of the intangible asset prior to the expiration of the license. See “Risk Factors – Impairment charges could reduce our profitability” for additional information regarding risks relating to impairment charges. 7 Our license agreements have terms generally of two to three years. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our products or develop new products and reduce our net sales and profitability. Product recalls or claims or other product safety issues relating to the use of our products could increase our costs and harm our reputation and our relationship with retailers and licensors. Because we sell products for mothers, infants and toddlers, as well as toys and collectible products, we face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. During 2008, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act was enacted. As a result, the Consumer Product Safety Commission is in the process of adopting new regulations for safety and product testing that apply to substantially all of our products. These new regulations significantly tighten the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of children’s products and also increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations or applicable product safety regulations in other jurisdictions where our products are sold or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed our insurance coverage, and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. A product safety warning regarding one of our products may result in charges due to retailer returns and inventory obsolescence even if there is not a product recall. Product recalls or other product safety issues may harm our reputation and consumer acceptance of the affected products or our other products, which may have an adverse effect on our net sales. Product recalls or other product safety issues may also harm our relationships with our retail customers, including the willingness of those customers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products and to support retailer driven promotions and advertising for our products. In addition, substantially all of our licenses give the licensor the right to terminate, under certain circumstances, if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations, or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license would likely adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. In addition, the trend of children “getting older younger,” where children are losing interest in traditional toys and games at younger ages, may increase the pace of change of consumer preferences that affect the demand for our preschool and youth products. As a result of this trend, at younger and younger ages, our toys compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy industry. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. Increases in the cost of labor, transportation, raw materials or other items used to manufacture our products could increase our cost of sales and reduce our margins. Since our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers, we do not directly purchase the raw materials used to manufacture our products. However, the prices we pay our suppliers may increase if their raw materials, labor or other costs increase. We may not be able to pass along such price increases to our customers. As a result, an increase in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs associated with the manufacturing of our products could increase our costs of sales and reduce our gross margins. We directly pay transportation costs to ship many of our products and have recently encountered increased transportation costs which have adversely affected our margins. During 2010, we experienced higher input costs, including ocean transportation costs, along with China labor and currency inflation. In 2011, we expect input costs to increase from 2010 levels. 8 Uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions may negatively affect our business. Adverse changes in general economic conditions in the United States and other global markets in which we operate, or consumer fears of adverse changes in economic conditions, may cause consumers to reduce expenditures for products such as our products. Adverse changes may occur as a result of adverse global or regional economic conditions, fluctuating oil prices, declining consumer confidence, unemployment, fluctuations in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, bankruptcy or liquidity problems with our customers or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our products, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with producing and distributing our products. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, with 23.8% of our net sales in 2010 denominated in British pounds sterling, Australian dollars, Euros or Canadian dollars. Our purchases of finished goods from Chinese manufacturers are primarily denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Expenses for these manufacturers are primarily denominated in Chinese renminbi. Any material increase in the value of the Chinese renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would increase our suppliers’ expenses, and, therefore, the cost of our products, which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. A material increase in the value of the Hong Kong dollar relative to the U.S. dollar would increase the Company’s expenses, and, therefore, could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. We are also subject to exchange rate risk relating to transfers of funds or other transactions denominated in British pounds sterling, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars or Euros from our foreign subsidiaries to the United States, such as for purchases of inventory by certain of our foreign subsidiaries in U.S. dollars. As a result, any increase in the U.S. dollar relative to our foreign subsidiaries’ local currencies would increase our expenses and, therefore, could adversely affect our profitability. We are not currently using and have not historically used hedges or other derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce exchange rate risk. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies such as Mattel, Inc. and Hasbro, Inc., with private label products sold by many of our retail customers and with other producers of products for mothers, infants and toddlers, as well as toys and collectible products. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and toddler, toy and collectible product industries have limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers, competition in the distribution and quality of our products and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. An inability to identify or complete future acquisitions could adversely affect our future growth. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. While we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. An inability to identify or complete future acquisitions could limit our future growth. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks, including: ● the acquired business may experience losses that could adversely affect our profitability; ● unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; ● possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company may decrease our net sales; ● possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company may decrease our net sales; 9 ● the loss of key personnel of the acquired business; ● difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; ● diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations; ● we may record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential impairment charges and we may also incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and ● unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Additionally, to finance our strategic acquisitions, we have borrowed funds under our credit facility, and we may borrow additional funds to complete future acquisitions. Our credit agreement may limit our ability to make acquisitions. Debt leverage resulting from future acquisitions could adversely affect our profit margins and limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities. All of our borrowing capacity is also subject to fluctuations in interest rates. We depend on the continuing willingness of chain retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. In 2010, 71.9% of our net sales were to chain retailers. Our success depends upon the continuing willingness of these retailers to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our access to shelf space at retailers may be reduced by store closings, stricter requirements for children’s products by retailers that we may not be able to meet, consolidation among these retailers and competition from other products. An adverse change in our relationship with or the financial viability of one or more of our customers could reduce our net sales and profitability. In addition, increased concentration of our sales to our largest chain retailer customers may adversely affect our ability to negotiate sales prices for our products and could result in increased pressure on our gross margins. We may not be able to collect outstanding accounts receivable from our major retail customers. Many of our retail customers generally purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of our largest customers. Our profitability or liquidity may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell. We maintain credit insurance for certain of our domestic customers, and the amount of this insurance covers a limited portion of the total amount of our accounts receivable. At December 31, 2009 and 2010, our credit insurance covered 5.8% and 10.5%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable. Insurance coverage for future sales is subject to reduction or cancellation. Because we rely on third-party suppliers to manufacture our products, we face the risk of supply disruptions due to factors outside of our control. We rely on third-party suppliers to manufacture our products. We enter into purchase orders with our suppliers and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. As a result, any of these suppliers could stop manufacturing our products due to a business shutdown, an arrangement to exclusively manufacture for another party or other reasons. Difficulties encountered by these suppliers, such as fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of a contagious disease at one or more of their facilities, could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. Any of these risks could increase our expenses or reduce our net sales. 10 Because we rely on foreign suppliers and we sell products in foreign markets, we are susceptible to numerous international business risks that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: ● economic and political instability; ● restrictive actions by foreign governments; ● greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights; ● changes in import duties or import or export restrictions; ● limitations, including taxes, on repatriation of earnings; ● timely shipping of product and unloading of product, which primarily come through West Coast ports, as well as timely rail/truck delivery to our warehouses and/or a customer’s warehouse; ● complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes; and ● complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. Any of these risks could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. The cost of compliance with trade and foreign tax laws increases our expenses, and actual or alleged violations of such laws could result in enforcement actions or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. Impairment charges could reduce our profitability. In accordance with the provisions of the Intangibles – Goodwill and Other Topic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, we test goodwill and our other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. We conduct testing for impairment annually during the fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $244.0 million of our goodwill, which was a 100.0% reduction of our goodwill, and $11.9 million for certain of our indefinite lived intangible assets, as a result of our annual impairment test. An amendment to our credit facility was obtained to exclude the effect of the 2008 impairment charges on our financial covenants. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $2.4 million for certain of our indefinite lived intangibles. At December 31, 2010, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $17.4 million and $104.7 million, respectively. Goodwill and other intangible assets represented 4.2% and 25.2% of our total assets at December 31, 2010, respectively. Various uncertainties, including changes in consumer preferences, ability to renew licenses, deterioration in the political environment, continued adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions, could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by an intangible asset or group of intangible assets, and may result in an impairment of those assets. Although such an impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, any impairment or change in the useful lives of the intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. If we are required to record an impairment charge, the charge could affect our compliance with the debt covenants in our credit agreement. Additionally, should we violate a covenant under our credit agreement, the cost of obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, or the lenders could be unwilling to provide a waiver or agree to an amendment. 11 Our credit agreement contains debt covenants which restrict our current and future operations, including our ability to take certain actions. Our credit agreement contains provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: ● incur additional debt; ● create liens on our assets or make guarantees; ● make acquisitions above certain amounts; ● pay dividends; ● buy back shares of our common stock; or ● dispose of our assets outside the ordinary course of business or enter into a merger or similar transaction. Our credit agreement also contains a number of financial covenants. The restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could result in a default under our credit agreement. If a default occurs, the lenders under our credit agreement may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowers, and to exercise any other rights they have under the credit agreement or applicable law. Our credit agreement matures on November 1, 2011, and we currently anticipate that we will refinance during 2011 to fund working capital needs. We may not be able to refinance on acceptable terms or the terms of any refinancing may be less advantageous to us than our current credit agreement, including with respect to the amount of credit available, interest rates and the terms of the restrictive debt covenants. A refinancing on less advantageous terms may adversely affect our business and may reduce our profitability. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. Our industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding trademark and patent infringement and other intellectual property rights. We are and have been a defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims and claims of breach of license from time to time, and we may continue to be subject to such claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management even if the claim is without merit. We also may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. Sales of our preschool, youth and adult products are seasonal, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Our preschool, youth and adult products business is highly seasonal primarily due to high consumer demand for our toy products during the year-end holiday season. Historically, our net sales and profitability have peaked in the third and fourth quarters due to the holiday season buying patterns. Seasonal variations in operating results may cause us to increase our debt levels and interest expense primarily in the third quarter. 12 The trading price of our common stock has been volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may become volatile again in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: ● our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; ● changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; ● the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; ● fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; ● substantial sales of our common stock; ● general stock market conditions; or ● other economic or external factors. Our stockholders may be unable to sell their stock at or above their purchase price. We may face future securities class action lawsuits that could require us to pay damages or settlement costs and otherwise harm our business. Future volatility in the price of our common stock may result in securities class action lawsuits against us, which may require that we pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage and incur substantial legal costs, and which may divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Various restrictions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us that is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our credit agreement that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: ● advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; ● covenants in our credit agreement restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions and a provision in our credit agreement that triggers an event of default upon the acquisition by a person or a group of persons of beneficial ownership of 33 1/3% or more of our outstanding common stock; and ● the Delaware anti-takeover statute contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger, consolidation, asset sale or other similar business combination between RC2 and any stockholder of 15.0% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years after the stockholder acquires 15.0% or more of our voting stock, unless (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 15.0% or more of our voting stock, (2) upon completing the transaction the stockholder owns at least 85.0% of our voting stock outstanding at the commencement of the transaction, or (3) the transaction is approved by our board of directors and the holders of 66 2/3% of our voting stock, excluding shares of our voting stock owned by the stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 