ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many risks affect our business. These risks include, but are not limited to, those described below, each of which may be relevant to decisions regarding an investment in or ownership of our stock. We have attempted to organize the description of these risks into logical groupings to enhance readability, but many of the risks interrelate or could be grouped or ordered in other ways, so no special significance should be attributed to these groupings or order. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a significant adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION OF OUR SOFTWARE Our software may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation and impair our sales. Software development is time consuming, expensive and complex. Unforeseen difficulties can arise. We may encounter technical obstacles and additional problems that prevent our software from operating properly. Client environments and practice patterns are widely divergent; consequently, there is significant variability in the configuration of our software from client to client, and we are not able to identify, test for, and resolve in advance all issues that may be encountered when clients place the system into use at their facilities. If our software contains errors or does not function consistent with software specifications or client expectations, clients could assert liability claims against us and/or attempt to cancel their contracts with us. These risks are generally more significant for newer software, until it has been used for enough time in enough client locations for us to have addressed issues that are discovered through use in disparate circumstances and environments, and for new installations, until potential issues associated with each new client’s particular environment and configurability are identified and addressed. Due to our ongoing development efforts, at any point in time, we generally have significant software that could be considered relatively new and therefore more vulnerable to these risks. It is also possible that future releases of our software, which would typically include additional features, may be delayed or may require additional work to address issues that may be discovered as the software comes into use in our client base. If we fail to deliver software with the features and functionality promised to our clients, we could be subject to significant contractual damages and face serious harm to our reputation, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our software development efforts may be inefficient or ineffective, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We face intense competition in the marketplace and are confronted by rapidly changing technology, evolving user needs and the frequent introduction of new software and enhancements by our competitors to meet the needs of clients. As a result, our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing software and services, and to timely develop and introduce competing new software and services with features and pricing that meet changing client and market requirements. We schedule and prioritize these development efforts according to a variety of factors, including our perceptions of market trends, client requirements, and resource availability. Our software is complex and requires a significant investment of time and resources to develop, test, and introduce into use. This can take longer than we expect. We may encounter unanticipated difficulties that require us to re-direct or scale-back our efforts and we may need to modify our plans in response to changes in client requirements, market demands, resource availability, regulatory requirements, or other factors. These factors place significant demands upon our software development organization, require complex planning and decision making, and can result in acceleration of some initiatives and delay of others. If we do not manage our development efforts efficiently and effectively, we may fail to produce, or timely produce, software that responds appropriately to our clients’ needs, or we may fail to meet client expectations regarding new or enhanced features and functionality. As we evolve our offering in an attempt to anticipate and meet market demand, clients and potential clients may find our software and services less appealing. In addition, if software development for the healthcare information technology market becomes significantly more expensive due to changes in regulatory requirements or healthcare industry practices, or other factors, we may find ourselves at a disadvantage to larger competitors with more financial resources to devote to development. If we are unable to enhance our existing software or develop new software to meet changing healthcare information technology market requirements and standards in a timely manner, demand for our software could suffer. 12 Table of Contents Market changes could decrease the demand for our software, which could harm our business and decrease our revenues. The healthcare information technology market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and new software introductions and enhancements that may render existing software obsolete or less competitive. Our position in the market could erode rapidly due to the development of regulatory or industry standards that our software may not fully meet or due to changes in the features and functions of competing software, as well as the pricing models for such software. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing software and services, and to timely develop and introduce competing new software and services with features and pricing that meet changing client and market requirements. If our products rapidly become obsolete, it makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our software strategy is dependent on the continued development and support by Microsoft of its .NET Framework and other technologies. Our software strategy is substantially dependent upon Microsoft’s .NET Framework and other Microsoft technologies. If Microsoft were to cease actively supporting .NET or other technologies that we use, fail to update and enhance them to keep pace with changing industry standards, encounter technical difficulties in the continuing development of these technologies or make them unavailable to us, we could be required to invest significant resources in re-engineering our software. This could lead to lost or delayed sales, loss of functionality, client costs associated with platform changes, unanticipated development expenses and harm our reputation, and would cause our financial results and business to suffer. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property, or any misappropriation of it, could enable our competitors to market software with similar features, which could reduce demand for our software. We are dependent upon our proprietary information and technology. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not enable us to protect our proprietary rights in those jurisdictions. Also, despite the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our software, reverse engineer our software or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In some limited instances, clients can access source-code versions of our software, subject to contractual limitations on the permitted use of the source code. Furthermore, it may be possible for our competitors to copy or gain access to our content. Although our license agreements with clients attempt to prevent misuse of the source code or trade secrets, the possession of our source code or trade secrets by third parties increases the ease and likelihood of potential misappropriation of our software. Furthermore, others could independently develop technologies similar or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. Failure of security features of our software could expose us to significant liabilities and harm our reputation. Clients use our systems to store and transmit highly confidential patient health information. Because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. If, notwithstanding our efforts, our software security features do not function properly, or client systems using our software are compromised, we could face claims for contract breach, fines, penalties and other liabilities for violation of applicable laws or regulations, significant costs for remediation and re-engineering to prevent future occurrences, and serious harm to our reputation. RISKS RELATED TO SALES AND IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR SOFTWARE Our sales process can be long and expensive and may not result in revenues. In addition, the length of our sales and implementation cycles may adversely affect our operating results. We typically experience long sales and implementation cycles. How and when to implement, replace, expand or substantially modify an information system, or modify or add business processes, are major decisions for healthcare organizations, our target client market. Furthermore, our software generally requires significant capital expenditures by our clients. The sales cycle for our software ranges from 6 to 18 months or more from initial contact to contract execution. Our implementation cycle has generally ranged from 6 to 36 months from contract execution to completion of implementation. During the sales and implementation cycles, we will expend substantial time, effort 13 Table of Contents and resources preparing contract proposals, negotiating the contract and implementing the software. Our sales efforts may not result in a sale, in which case, we will not realize any revenues to offset these expenditures. If we do complete a sale, accounting principles may not allow us to recognize revenues in the same periods in which corresponding sales and implementation expenses were incurred. Additionally, any decision by our clients to delay purchasing or implementing our software or reduce the scope of products purchased would likely adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience implementation delays that could harm our reputation and violate contractual commitments. Some of our software is complex and requires a lengthy and expensive implementation process. Implementation also requires our clients to make a substantial commitment of their own time and resources and to make significant organizational and process changes, and if our clients are unable to fulfill their implementation responsibilities in a timely fashion, our projects may be delayed or become less profitable. Each client’s situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failures by us or the client to meet our respective implementation responsibilities or other factors. Because of the complexity of the implementation process, delays are sometimes difficult to attribute solely to us or the client. Implementation delays could motivate clients to delay payments or attempt to cancel their contracts with us or seek other remedies from us. Any inability or perceived inability to implement our software consistent with a client’s schedule could harm our reputation and be a competitive disadvantage for us as we pursue new business. Our ability to improve sales depends upon many factors, including successful and timely completion of implementation and successful use of our software in live environments by clients who are willing to become reference sites for us. Implementation costs may exceed our expectations, which can negatively affect our operating results. Each client’s circumstances may include unforeseen issues that make it more difficult or costly than anticipated to implement our software. As a result, we may fail to project, price or manage our implementation services correctly. If we do not have sufficient qualified personnel to fulfill our implementation commitments in a timely fashion, related revenue may be delayed, and if we must supplement our capabilities with third-party consultants, which are generally more expensive, our costs will increase. Similarly, our operating results will be negatively affected if our personnel take longer than budgeted to implement our solutions. Some of our software is complex and highly configurable and many clients value our ability to adapt the software to their specific needs. However, this high degree of configurability has resulted in significant implementation costs, which have made our offering too expensive for some clients. Our ability to reach our goals for expansion into smaller clients and in the international market, and to sell to clients with budgetary constraints, depends upon our ability to develop less costly ways of implementing our most complex software. Our earnings can vary significantly depending on periodic software revenues. In any financial reporting period, the periodic software revenues include traditional license fees associated with sales made in the financial reporting period, as well as revenues from contract backlog that had not previously been recognized pending contract performance that occurred or was completed during the period, and certain other activities during the period associated with existing client relationships. Although these periodic software revenues represent a relatively small portion of our overall revenue in any period, they generally have high margins, and are therefore an important element of our earnings in any period. These periodic revenues can fluctuate because economic conditions, market factors, client-specific situations, and other issues can result in significant variations in the type and magnitude of sales and other contract and client activity in any period. These variations make it difficult to predict the nature and amount of these periodic revenues. We believe economic conditions, and resulting cash conservation by clients, adversely affected our periodic software revenues in the second half of 2008, and if these conditions and client reactions continue in 2009, or if for other reasons periodic software revenues in any period decline from prior periods or fall short of our expectations, our earnings will be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (“IT”) OR TECHNOLOGY SERVICES Various risks could interrupt clients’ access to their data residing in our service center, exposing us to significant costs and other liabilities. We provide remote hosting services that involve running our software and third-party vendors’ software for clients in our Technology Solutions Center. The ability to access the systems and the data that the Technology Solution Center hosts and supports on demand is critical to our clients. Our operations and facilities are vulnerable to interruption and/or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: (i) power loss and telecommunications failures; (ii) fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; (iii) software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; and (iv) computer viruses, hacking and similar disruptive problems. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various means including redundant infrastructure, disaster recovery plans, separate test systems and change control and system security measures, but our precautions may not protect against all problems. If clients’ access is interrupted because of problems in the operation of our facilities, we could be exposed to significant claims by clients or their patients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of medical care. We maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans that rely upon third-party providers of related services, and if those vendors fail us at a time that our center is not operating correctly, we could fail to fulfill our contractual service commitments, which could result in a loss of revenue and liability under our client contracts. Furthermore, any significant instances of system downtime could negatively affect our reputation and ability to sell our remote hosting services. Any breach of confidentiality of client or patient data in our possession could expose us to significant expense and harm our reputation. We must maintain facility and systems security measures to preserve the confidentiality of data belonging to our clients and their patients that resides on computer equipment in our Technology Solution Center or that is otherwise in our possession. Notwithstanding the efforts we undertake to protect data, our measures can be vulnerable to infiltration as well as unintentional lapse, and if confidential information is compromised, we could face claims for contract breach, penalties and other liabilities for violation of applicable laws or regulations, significant costs for remediation and re-engineering to prevent future occurrences, and serious harm to our reputation. Recruiting challenges and higher than anticipated costs in outsourcing our clients’ IT operations may adversely affect our profitability. We provide outsourcing services that involve operating clients’ IT departments using our employees. At the initiation of these relationships, clients often require us to hire, at substantially the same compensation, the entire IT staff that had been performing the services we take on. In these circumstances, our costs may be higher than we target unless and until we are able to transition the workforce, methods and systems to a more scalable model. Various factors can make this transition difficult, including geographic dispersion of client facilities and variation in client needs, IT environments, and system configurations. Also, under some circumstances, we may incur significant costs as a successor employer by inheriting obligations of that client for which we may not be indemnified. Further, facilities management contracts require us to provide the IT services specified by contract, and in some places it can be difficult to recruit qualified IT personnel. Changes in circumstances or failure to assess the client’s environment and scope our services accurately can mean we must hire more staff than we anticipated in order to meet our responsibilities. If we have to increase salaries or relocate personnel, or hire more people than we anticipated, our operating results will be adversely affected. Inability to obtain consents needed from third party software providers could impair our ability to provide remote IT or technology services. We and our clients need consent from some third-party software providers as a condition to running the providers’ software in our service center, or to allow our employees who work in client locations under facilities management arrangements to have access to their software. Vendors’ refusal to give such consents, or insistence upon unreasonable conditions to such consents, could reduce our revenue opportunities and make our IT or technology services less viable for some clients. 15 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE HEALTHCARE IT INDUSTRY AND MARKET We operate in an intensely competitive market that includes companies that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We face intense competition in the marketplace. We are confronted by rapidly changing technology, evolving user needs and the frequent introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced software. Our principal competitors in our software business include Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, Medical Information Technology, Inc., GE Healthcare, McKesson Corporation, and Siemens AG. Other software competitors include providers of practice management, general decision support and database systems, as well as segment-specific applications and healthcare technology consultants. Our services business competes with large consulting firms, as well as independent providers of technology implementation and other services. Our outsourcing business competes with large national providers of technology solutions such as IBM Corporation, Computer Sciences Corp., and Perot Systems Corporation, as well as smaller firms. Several of our existing and potential competitors are better established, benefit from greater name recognition and have significantly more financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some competitors, particularly those with a more diversified revenue base or that are privately held, may have greater flexibility than we do to compete aggressively on the basis of price. Vigorous and evolving competition could lead to a loss of our market share or pressure on our prices and could make it more difficult to grow our business profitably. The principal factors that affect competition within our market include software functionality, performance, flexibility and features, use of open industry standards, speed and quality of implementation and client service and support, company reputation, price and total cost of ownership. We anticipate continued consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries and large integrated technology companies may become more active in our markets, both through acquisition and internal investment. There is a finite number of hospitals and other healthcare providers in our target market. As costs fall, technology improves, and market factors continue to compel investment by healthcare organizations in software and services like ours, market saturation may change the competitive landscape in favor of larger competitors with greater scale. Clients that use our legacy software are vulnerable to sales efforts of our competitors. A significant part of our revenue comes from relatively high-margin legacy software that was installed by our clients many years ago. We attempt to convert clients using legacy software to our newer generation software, but such conversions may require significant investments of time and resources by clients. As the marketplace becomes more saturated and technology advances, there will be competition to retain existing clients, particularly those using older generation products, and loss of this business would adversely affect our results of operations. The healthcare industry faces financial constraints that could adversely affect the demand for our software and services. The healthcare industry faces significant financial constraints. For example, managed healthcare puts pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs, and regulatory changes and payor requirements have reduced reimbursements to healthcare organizations. For example, the Inpatient Prospective Payment System rules, published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid in the U.S., identified several “hospital-acquired conditions” for which treatment will no longer be reimbursed by Medicare. Federal, state and local governments and private payors are imposing other requirements that may have the effect of reducing payments to healthcare organizations. Our software often involves a significant financial commitment by our clients. Our ability to grow our business is largely dependent on our clients’ information technology budgets, which in part depends on the client’s cash generation and access to other sources of liquidity. Recent financial market disruptions have adversely affected the availability of external financing, and led to tighter lending standards and volatile interest rates. These factors can reduce access to cash for our clients and potential clients. In addition, many of our clients’ budgets rely in part on investment earnings, which decrease when portfolio investment values decline. Economic factors are causing many clients to take a conservative approach to investments, including the purchase of systems like we sell. If healthcare information technology spending declines or increases more slowly than we anticipate, demand for our software could be adversely affected and our revenue could fall short of our expectations. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our clients to pay for our software and services for which they have contacted. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. 16 Table of Contents Healthcare industry consolidation could put pressure on our software prices, reduce our potential client base and reduce demand for our software. Many healthcare organizations have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation trend continues, it could reduce the size of our target market and give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, each of which may lead to erosion of the prices for our software. In addition, when healthcare organizations combine they often consolidate infrastructure including IT systems, and acquisitions of our clients could erode our revenue base. Changes in standards applicable to our software could require us to incur substantial additional development costs. Integration and interoperability of the software and systems provided by various vendors are important issues in the healthcare industry. Market forces, regulatory authorities and industry organizations are causing the emergence of standards for software features and performance that are applicable to our products. Healthcare delivery and ultimately the functionality demands of the electronic health record are now expanding to support community health, public health, public policy and population health initiatives. In addition, interoperability and health information exchange features that support emerging and enabling technologies are becoming increasingly important to our clients and require us to undertake large scale product enhancements and redesign. For example, the Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology, or CCHIT, is developing comprehensive sets of criteria for the functionality, interoperability, and security of healthcare software in the U.S. Achieving CCHIT certification is evolving as a de facto competitive requirement, resulting in increased research and development expense to conform to these requirements. Similar dynamics are evolving in international markets. CCHIT requirements may diverge from our software’s characteristics and our development direction. We may choose not to apply for CCHIT certification of certain modules of our software or to delay applying for certification. The CCHIT application process requires conformity with 100% of all criteria applicable to each module in order to achieve certification and there is no assurance that we will receive or retain certification for any particular module notwithstanding application. Certification for a software module lasts for two years and must then be re-secured, and certification requirements evolve, so even certifications we receive may be lost. U.S. government initiatives and related industry trends are resulting in comprehensive and evolving standards related to interoperability, privacy, and other features that are becoming mandatory for systems purchased by governmental healthcare providers and other providers receiving governmental payments, including Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Various state and foreign governments are also developing similar standards which may be different and even more demanding. Our software does not conform to all of these standards, and conforming to these standards is expected to consume a substantial and increasing portion of our development resources. If our software is not consistent with emerging standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we will have to upgrade our software to remain competitive in the market. We expect compliance with these kinds of standards to become increasingly important to clients and therefore to our ability to sell our software. If we make the wrong decisions about compliance with these standards, or are late in conforming our software to these standards, or if despite our efforts our software fails standards compliance testing, our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our business strategy includes expansion into markets outside North America, which will require increased expenditures and if our international operations are not successfully implemented, such expansion may cause our operating results and reputation to suffer. We are working to further expand operations in markets outside North America. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We have limited experience in marketing, selling, implementing and supporting our software abroad. Expansion of our international sales and operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management, establishment of service delivery and support capabilities to handle that business and commensurate financial resources, and will subject us to risks and challenges that we would not face if we conducted our business only in the United States. We may not generate sufficient revenues from international business to cover these expenses. 17 Table of Contents The risks and challenges associated with operations outside the United States may include: the need to modify our software to satisfy local requirements and standards, including associated expenses and time delays; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including healthcare, employment, tax, privacy, healthcare information technology, and data and intellectual property protection laws and regulations; laws regulating exports of technology products from the United States and foreign government restrictions on acquisitions of U.S.-origin products; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties in setting up foreign operations, including recruiting staff and management; and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties. One or more of these requirements and risks may preclude us from operating in some markets and may cause our operating results and reputation to suffer. Foreign sales subject us to numerous stringent U.S. and foreign laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and comparable foreign laws and regulations which prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. As we expand our international operations, there is some risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, which could constitute a violation by Eclipsys of various laws including the FCPA, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. Safeguards we implement to discourage these practices may prove to be less than effective and violations of the FCPA and other laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, or other liabilities or proceedings against us, including class action law suits and enforcement actions from the SEC, Department of Justice and overseas regulators, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATING RESULTS, ACCOUNTING CONTROLS AND FINANCES Our past stock option practices and related accounting issues have caused costly derivative litigation and may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and governmental enforcement actions. As a result of the voluntary review of historical stock option practices we undertook from February to May 2007, we concluded that incorrect measurement dates were used for accounting for certain prior stock option grants. As a result, we recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants, and we restated certain previously filed financial statements. In 2008 we settled related stockholder derivative litigation. We believe these restatements reflect appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, and to date those judgments have not been challenged. We believe the settlement of the derivative suit effectively ends litigation of this matter. However, as with other aspects of our financial statements, the results of our stock option review are subject to regulatory review and additional claims and there is a risk that we may have to further restate prior period results or incur additional costs as a result of such a review or proceeding. We have a history of operating losses and future profitability is not assured. We experienced operating losses in the years ended December 31, 2003 through 2006. Although we reported operating income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, we may incur losses in the future, and it is not certain that we will sustain or increase our recent profitability. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced significant variations in revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: • the performance of our software and our ability to promptly and efficiently address software performance shortcomings or warranty issues; • the cost, timeliness and outcomes of our software development and implementation efforts, including expansion of our presence in India; • the timing, size and complexity of our software sales and implementations; • healthcare industry conditions and the overall demand for healthcare information technology; • variations in periodic software license revenues; • the financial condition of our clients and potential clients; 18 Table of Contents • market acceptance of new services, software and software enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; • client decisions regarding renewal or termination of their contracts; • software and price competition; • investment required to support our international expansion efforts; • personnel changes and other organizational changes and related expenses; • significant judgments and estimates made by management in the application of generally accepted accounting principles; • healthcare reform measures and healthcare regulation in general; • lower investment returns due to recent disruptions in U.S. and international financial markets; and • fluctuations in general economic and financial market conditions, including interest rates. It is difficult to predict the timing of revenues that we receive from software sales, because the sales cycle can vary depending upon several factors. These include the size and terms of the transaction, the changing business plans of the client, the effectiveness of the client’s management, general economic conditions and the regulatory environment. In addition, the timing of our revenue recognition could vary considerably depending upon whether our clients license our software under our subscription model or our traditional licensing arrangements, and current economic conditions are motivating some clients to prefer subscription contracting to traditional licenses, which can result in commensurate decreases in, or failure to achieve our expectations for, in-period license revenue and associated margin. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of sales and implementations could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on these comparisons as indicators of future performance. In addition, prices for our common stock may be influenced by investor perception of us and our industry in general, research analyst recommendations, and our ability to meet or exceed quarterly performance expectations of investors or analysts. Early termination of client contracts or contract penalties could adversely affect results of operations. Client contracts can change or terminate early for a variety of reasons. Change of control, financial issues, declining general economic conditions or other changes in client circumstances may cause us or the client to seek to modify or terminate a contract. Further, either we or the client may generally terminate a contract for material uncured breach by the other. If we breach a contract or fail to perform in accordance with contractual service levels, we may be required to refund money previously paid to us by the client, or to pay penalties or other damages. Even if we have not breached, we may deal with various situations from time to time for the reasons described above which may result in the amendment or termination of a contract. These steps can result in significant current period charges and/or reductions in current or future revenue. Because in many cases we recognize revenues for our software monthly over the term of a client contract, downturns or upturns in sales will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. We recognize a significant portion of our revenues from clients monthly over the terms of their agreements, which are typically 5-7 years and can be up to 10 years. As a result, much of the revenue that we report each quarter is attributable to agreements executed during prior quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales, client renewals, or market acceptance of our software in one quarter may negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to rapidly adjust our cost structure to compensate for reduced revenues. This monthly revenue recognition also makes it more difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as a significant portion of revenues from new clients or new sales may be recognized over the applicable agreement term. 19 Table of Contents Loss of revenue from large clients could have significant negative impact on our results of operations and overall financial condition. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 40% of our revenues were attributable to our 20 largest clients. In addition, approximately 39% of our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008 were attributable to 20 clients. One client represented 10.7% of our revenues. Loss of revenue from significant clients or failure to collect accounts receivable, whether as a result of client payment default, contract termination, or other factors could have a significant negative impact on our results of operation and overall financial condition. Impairment of intangible assets could increase our expenses. A significant portion of our assets consists of intangible assets, including capitalized development costs, goodwill and other intangibles acquired in connection with acquisitions. Current accounting standards require us to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis and other intangibles if certain triggering events occur, and adjust the carrying value of these assets to net realizable value when such testing reveals impairment of the assets. Various factors, including regulatory or competitive changes, could affect the value of our intangible assets. If we are required to write-down the value of our intangible assets due to impairment, our reported expenses will increase, resulting in a corresponding decrease in our reported profit. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain internal control over financial reporting that meets applicable standards. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and operating results, which could result in a negative market reaction. Funds invested in auction rate securities may not be liquid or accessible for in excess of 12 months, and our auction rate securities may experience further fair value adjustments or other-than-temporary declines in value, which would adversely affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Our investment portfolio is primarily invested in auction rate securities, or ARS. Beginning in February 2008, negative conditions in the credit and capital markets resulted in failed auctions of our ARS. The ratings on some of the ARS in our portfolio have been downgraded, and there can be no assurances that there will be no further rating downgrades. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded changes in fair value of these securities of $8.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive income and $3.9 million as a charge to earnings. See Note D – “Investments” in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or we experience further rating downgrades on any investments in our portfolio, funds associated with these securities may not be liquid or available to fund current operations for in excess of 12 months. This could result in further fair value adjustments or other-than-temporary impairments in the carrying value of our investments, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Our commercial credit facility subjects us to operating restrictions and risks of default. On August 26, 2008, we entered into a credit agreement with certain lenders and Wachovia Bank, as Administrative Agent, providing for a senior secured revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of $125 million. This credit facility is subject to certain financial ratio and other covenants that could restrict our ability to conduct business as we might otherwise deem to be in our best interests, and breach of these covenants could cause the debt to become immediately due. In such an event, our liquid assets might not be sufficient to repay in full the debt outstanding under the credit facility. Such an acceleration also would expose us to the risk of liquidation of collateral assets at unfavorable prices. The conditions of the U.S. and international financial markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facility. The U.S. and international credit markets contracted significantly during the second half of 2008. If one or more of the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us under our credit facility are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unwilling or unable to fund 20 Table of Contents borrowings under their credit commitments to us. In such a case we might not be able to locate replacement lenders or other sources of financing, which could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate needs. Inability to obtain other financing could limit our ability to conduct necessary development activities and make strategic investments. Although we believe at this time that our available cash and cash equivalents and the cash we anticipate generating from operations will be adequate to meet our foreseeable needs, we could incur significant expenses or shortfalls in anticipated cash generated as a result of unanticipated events in our business or competitive, regulatory, or other changes in our market. As a result, we may in the future need to obtain other financing. The availability of such financing is limited by the tightening of the global credit markets. In addition, the commitment under our credit facility expires on August 26, 2011. Our ability to renew such credit facility or to enter into a new credit facility to replace the existing facility could be impaired if current market conditions continue or worsen. In addition, if credit is available, lenders may seek more restrictive lending provisions and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity and increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If other financing is not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to respond adequately to these changes or maintain our business, which could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. Alternatively, we may be forced to obtain additional financing by selling equity, and this could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. RISKS OF LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES Our software and content are used by clinicians in the course of treating patients. If our software fails to provide accurate and timely information or is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, clients, clinicians or their patients could assert claims against us that could result in substantial cost to us, harm our reputation in the industry and cause demand for our software to decline. We provide software and content that provides information and tools for use in clinical decision-making, provides access to patient medical histories and assists in creating patient treatment plans. If our software fails to provide accurate and timely information, or if our content or any other element of our software is associated with faulty clinical decisions or treatment, we could have liability to clients, clinicians or their patients. The assertion of such claims, whether or not valid, and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our software. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages and to require that our clients assume responsibility for medical care and approve all system rules and protocols. Despite these precautions, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable, may not be binding upon our client’s patients, or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage, but this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us. In addition, the insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. One or more large claims could exceed our available insurance coverage. Complex software such as ours may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released. It is challenging for us to envision and test our software for all potential problems because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of computing environments, medical circumstances or treatment methodologies that our clients may deploy or rely upon. Despite extensive testing by us and clients, from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our software, and additional defects or errors can be expected to appear in the future. Defects and errors that are not timely detected and remedied could expose us to risk of liability to clients, clinicians and their patients and cause delays in software introductions and shipments, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications or decrease market acceptance or client satisfaction with our software. 21 Table of Contents Our software and software provided by third parties that we include in our offering could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, exposing us to costs that could be significant. Infringement or invalidity claims or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims could be asserted or prosecuted against us based upon design or use of software we provide to clients, including software we develop as well as software provided to us by third parties. Regardless of the validity of any claims, defending against these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources, and vendor indemnity might not be available. The assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions preventing us from distributing our software, or require us to obtain a license to the disputed intellectual property rights, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We might also be required to indemnify our clients at significant expense. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS AND INITIATIVES We depend on licenses from third parties for rights to some of the technology we use, and if we are unable to continue these relationships and maintain our rights to this technology, our business could suffer. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our software from a number of third-party vendors. Most of these licenses expire within one to five years, can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. We may not be able to continue using the technology made available to us under these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce software sales until we obtain equivalent technology, which could hurt our business. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, particularly with regard to Microsoft, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own software. Our software offering often includes modules provided by third parties, and if these third parties do not meet their commitments, our relationships with our clients could be impaired. Some of the software modules we offer to clients are provided by third parties. We often rely upon these third parties to produce software that meets our clients’ needs and to implement and maintain that software. If these third parties are unable or unwilling to fulfill their responsibilities, our relationships with affected clients could be impaired, and we could be responsible to clients for the failures. We might not be able to recover from these third parties for any or all of the costs we incur as a result of their failures. Any acquisitions we undertake may be disruptive to our business and could have an adverse effect on our future operations and the market price of our common stock. An important element of our business strategy has been expansion through acquisitions and while there is no assurance that we will identify and complete any future acquisitions, any acquisitions would involve a number of risks, including the following: • The anticipated benefits from the acquisition may not be achieved, including as a result of loss of customers or personnel of the target. • The identification, acquisition and integration of acquired businesses require substantial attention from management. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition process could hurt our business. • The identification, acquisition and integration of acquired businesses requires significant investment, including to harmonize product and service offerings, expand management capabilities and market presence, and improve or increase development efforts and software features and functions. • In future acquisitions, we could issue additional shares of our common stock, incur additional indebtedness or pay consideration in excess of book value, which could dilute future earnings. • Acquisitions also expose us to the risk of assumed known and unknown liabilities. • New business acquisitions generate significant intangible assets that result in substantial related amortization charges to us and possible impairments. 22 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO INDUSTRY REGULATION Potential regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration of our software and content as medical devices could impose increased costs, delay the introduction of new software and hurt our business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, may become increasingly active in regulating computer software or content intended for use in the healthcare setting. The FDA has increasingly focused on the regulation of computer software and computer-assisted products as medical devices under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act. If the FDA chooses to regulate any of our software, or third party software that we resell, as medical devices, it could impose extensive requirements upon us, including requiring us to: • seek FDA clearance of pre-market notification submission demonstrating substantial equivalence to a device already legally marketed, or to obtain FDA approval of a pre-market approval application establishing the safety and effectiveness of the software; • comply with rigorous regulations governing the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of medical devices; and/or • comply with the FDC Act regarding general controls, including establishment registration, device listing, compliance with good manufacturing practices, reporting of specified device malfunctions and adverse device events. If we fail to comply with applicable requirements, the FDA could respond by imposing fines, injunctions or civil penalties, requiring recalls or software corrections, suspending production, refusing to grant pre-market clearance or approval of software, withdrawing clearances and approvals, and initiating criminal prosecution. Any FDA policy governing computer products or content may increase the cost and time to market of new or existing software or may prevent us from marketing our software. Changes in federal and state regulations relating to patient data could depress the demand for our software and impose significant software redesign costs on us. Clients use our systems to store and transmit highly confidential patient health information and data. State and federal laws and regulations and their foreign equivalents govern the collection, security, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. These laws and regulations may change rapidly and may be unclear, or difficult or costly to apply. Federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and related laws and regulations, impose national health data standards on healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions, healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA-compliant and non-compliant formats, and health plans and entities providing certain services to these organizations. These standards require, among other things, transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions; protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information; and require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Most of our clients are covered by these regulations and require that our software and services adhere to HIPAA standards, and evolving privacy regulations are expected to apply to us directly. Any failure or perception of failure of our software or services to meet HIPAA standards and related regulations could adversely affect demand for our software and services and force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our software or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our clients. States and foreign jurisdictions in which we or our clients operate have adopted, or may adopt, privacy standards that are similar to or more stringent than the federal HIPAA privacy standards. This may lead to different restrictions for handling individually identifiable health information. As a result, our clients may demand, and we may be required to provide information technology solutions and services that are adaptable to reflect different and changing regulatory requirements which could increase our development costs. In the future, federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities or industry bodies may impose new data security standards or additional restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. We cannot predict the potential impact that these future rules may have on our business. However, the demand for our software and services may decrease if we are not able to develop and offer software and services that can address the regulatory challenges and compliance obligations facing us and our clients. 23 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATION Our growing operations in India expose us to risks that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We now have a significant workforce employed in India engaged in a broad range of development, support and corporate infrastructure activities that are integral to our business and critical to our profitability. This involves significant challenges that are increased by our lack of prior experience managing operations in India. Further, while there are certain cost advantages to operating in India, significant growth in the technology sector in India has increased competition to attract and retain skilled employees with commensurate increases in compensation costs. In the future, we may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, our operations in India require ongoing capital investments and expose us to foreign currency fluctuations, which may significantly reduce or negate any cost benefit anticipated from such expansion. In addition, our reliance on a workforce in India exposes us to disruptions in the business, political and economic environment in that region. Maintenance of a stable political environment is important to our operations, and terrorist attacks and acts of violence or war may directly affect our physical facilities and workforce or contribute to general instability. Our operations in India may also be affected by trade restrictions, such as tariffs or other trade controls, as well as other factors that may adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified technical, marketing, sales and management personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired. Our success depends, in significant part, upon the continued services of our key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. Competition for these employees is intense and we maintain at-will employment terms with our employees. In addition, the process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business strategy can be difficult, time-consuming and expensive. We believe that our ability to implement our strategic goals depends to a considerable degree on our senior management team. The loss of any member of that team could hurt our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR EQUITY STRUCTURE Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that stockholders may believe are desirable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of our company. The issuance of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock and we terminated, effective as of May 8, 2008, our stockholder rights agreement, which used preferred stock purchase rights designed to enable our board of directors to better respond to any takeover efforts. However, we could implement a new stockholder rights plan in the future, or make other uses of preferred stock to inhibit a potential acquisition of the company. Our charter documents contain additional anti-takeover devices, including: • only one of the three classes of directors is elected each year; • the ability of our stockholders to remove directors without cause is limited; • the right of stockholders to act by written consent has been eliminated; • the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders has been eliminated; and • advance notice must be given to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholders meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from 24 Table of Contents the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. These provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation and may apply even if some of our stockholders consider the proposed transaction beneficial to them. For example, these provisions might discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. These provisions could also limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 