1A. Risk Factors — Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.” Components of Our Cost Structure Production Costs are the day-to-day costs we incur to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market combined with the daily costs we incur to maintain our producing properties. This includes lease operating expenses and production taxes. • Lease operating expenses are generally comprised of several components including: the cost of labor and supervision to operate our wells and related equipment; repairs and maintenance; fluid treatment and disposal; related materials, supplies, and fuel; and insurance applicable to our wells and related facilities and equipment. Lease operating expenses also include the cost for expensed workovers. Lease operating expenses are driven in part by the type of commodity produced, the level of workover activity and the geographical location of the properties. Oil is inherently more expensive to produce than natural gas. • Lease operating expenses also include ad valorem taxes, which are imposed by local taxing authorities such as school districts, cities, and counties or boroughs. The amount of tax we pay is based on a percent of value of the property assessed or determined by the taxing authority on an annual basis. When oil and natural gas prices rise, the value of our underlying property interests increase, which results in higher ad valorem taxes. 40 Table of Contents • In the U.S., there are a variety of state and federal taxes levied on the production of oil and natural gas. These are commonly grouped together and referred to as production taxes. The majority of our production tax expense is based on a percent of gross value realized at the wellhead at the time the production is sold or removed from the lease. As a result, our production tax expense increases when oil and gas prices rise. • Historically, taxing authorities have occasionally encouraged the oil and natural gas industry to explore for new oil and natural gas reserves, or to develop high cost reserves, through reduced tax rates or tax credits. These incentives have been narrow in scope and short-lived. A small number of our wells have qualified for reduced production taxes because they were discoveries based on the use of 3-D seismic or they are high cost wells. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization is the systematic expensing of the capital costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop oil and natural gas. As a full cost company, we capitalize all direct costs associated with our exploration and development efforts, including a portion of our interest and certain general and administrative costs, and apportion these costs to each unit of production sold through depletion expense. Generally, if reserve quantities are revised up or down, our depletion rate per unit of production will change inversely. When the depreciable capital cost base increases or decreases, the depletion rate will move in the same direction. Asset Retirement Accretion Expense is the systematic, monthly accretion of future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. General and Administrative Expense includes payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, managing our production and development operations and legal compliance. We capitalize general and administrative costs directly related to prospect generation and our exploration activities. Interest. We rely on our Senior Credit Facility to fund our short-term liquidity (working capital) and a portion of our long-term financing needs. The interest rate that we pay on our Senior Credit Facility correlates with both fluctuations in interest rates and the amount outstanding under the facility. We pay a fixed interest rate on both our Senior Notes and our preferred stock. We expect to continue to incur interest expense as we continue to grow. We capitalize interest directly related to our unevaluated properties and certain properties under development, which are not being amortized. Income Taxes. We are generally subject to a 35% federal income tax rate. For income tax purposes, we are allowed deductions for accelerated depreciation, depletion, intangible drilling costs, and state taxes. Through 2009, all of our federal and state income taxes were deferred. Capital Commitments Our primary needs for cash are to fund our capital expenditure program, our working capital obligations and for the repayment of contractual obligations. In the future, cash will also be required to fund our capital expenditures for the exploration and development of properties necessary to offset the inherent declines in production and proven reserves that are typical in an extractive industry like ours and also to hold acreage that would otherwise expire if not drilled. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on our access to cost effective capital resources and our success in economically finding and producing additional oil and natural gas reserves. Funding for our exploration and development of oil and natural gas activities and the repayment of our contractual obligations may be provided by any combination of cash flow from operations, cash on our balance sheet, the unused committed borrowing capacity under our Senior Credit Facility, reimbursements of prior land and seismic costs by third parties who participate in our projects, and the sale of interests in projects and properties or alternative financing sources as discussed in “- Contractual Obligations” and “- Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Cash flows from operations and the unused committed borrowing capacity under our Senior Credit Facility fund our working capital obligations. 41 Table of Contents Overview of Capital Activity Our improving operational results in the Williston Basin Bakken and Three Forks plays during 2008, largely attributable to increasing the number of fracture stimulation stages in each horizontal wellbore, led us to increase our capital expenditure budget in the Williston Basin in 2008 and reduce our conventional portfolio activity in the Onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin and West Texas. We added a second Williston Basin drilling rig during the last half of 2008 to accelerate drilling east of the Nesson Anticline in Mountrail County, North Dakota as well as to begin development of acreage west of the Nesson Anticline in Williams and McKenzie Counties, North Dakota. Unfortunately, as we added our second drilling rig, commodity prices rapidly deteriorated during the last half of 2008 because of the financial crisis and recession experienced both in the United States and internationally. Crude oil and natural gas prices, which had peaked at approximately $145.29 per barrel and $13.58 per Mcf in July 2008, reached a 2008 low of $33.87 per barrel and $5.29 per Mcf in December 2008. Despite decreasing prices, continued high levels of drilling activity by operators sustained the elevated drilling and completion costs and overall project returns were negatively impacted because of the mismatch that existed between commodity prices and the cost to drill and complete wells. In early 2009, to combat the reduction in our rates of return and the general deteriorating availability of capital, we elected to cease drilling and completion operations post completion of the Olson 10-15 #1H, which was our first long lateral well with 20 fracture stimulation stages. In March 2009, we announced a 2009 capital budget of $37.1 million, which was largely comprised of costs to complete the Olson 10-15 #1H and costs related to several other wells that we ceased operations prior to reaching the completion stage. In March 2009, crude oil prices began to rebound and prices averaged $48.06 per barrel. During the first half of 2009, other operators reduced or ceased drilling activity and the number of rigs operating in the Williston Basin rapidly declined from a peak rate of 93 rigs running in November 2008 to 31 rigs running in May 2009. As a result of the reduction in drilling rigs at work in the Williston Basin and elsewhere in the United States, it is estimated that costs to drill and complete wells in the Williston Basin were reduced 30 to 40% relative to the peak rates seen in late 2008 and early 2009. In May 2009, commodity prices continued to improve and crude oil averaged $59.21 per barrel during the month. Also during this period, economic conditions began to stabilize due to actions taken by governments around the world and capital markets availability improved. In order to restart our Williston Basin drilling program, we elected to raise approximately $93.4 million in net proceeds from the May 2009 equity offering and announced an increase to our 2009 capital budget to $64.5 million. Shortly thereafter, we commenced completion operations on the wells that we had deferred completing in February 2009. In addition, we picked up a rig to begin drilling operations west of the Nesson Anticline in our Rough Rider project area. In August, we announced entry into a drilling participation agreement, which allowed us to drill additional locations in Rough Rider subject to state lease expirations. We were able to maintain a relatively flat capital expenditure profile for the second half of 2009 even after increasing the number of gross wells drilled, as we reduced our working interest in wells to 35% of our original working interest as a result of the drilling participation agreement. In October 2009, we raised an additional $168.3 million in net proceeds from an equity offering in order to pre-fund an increased level drilling activity in 2010. Our preliminary 2010 capital budget announced in October 2009, concurrent with the equity offering, was estimated to be $175.8 million and we estimated that we would drill 24 net wells in the Williston Basin and two net wells in our South Texas Vicksburg play. In 2010, we estimate that we will have four rigs running in the Williston Basin and drill 39 gross (21.1 net) operated wells and 4.6 net non-operated wells. Overall, we currently estimate that we will spend approximately $199.3 million on drilling, land and seismic capital expenditures during 2010. We anticipate funding our 2010 capital expenditure budget through cash on our balance sheet, which was a result of our May and October 2009 equity offerings, cash flow from operations, availability under our Senior Credit Facility, which at year-end 2009 had a borrowing base of $110 million, and through potential divestiture transactions in our conventional asset portfolio. 42 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures The timing of most of our capital expenditures is discretionary because we operate the majority of our wells and we have no material long-term capital expenditure commitments. Consequently, we have a significant degree of flexibility to adjust the level of our capital expenditures as circumstances warrant. Our capital expenditure program includes the following: • cost of acquiring and maintaining our lease acreage position and our seismic resources; • cost of drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells; • cost of installing new production infrastructure; • cost of maintaining, repairing and enhancing existing oil and natural gas wells; • cost related to plugging and abandoning unproductive or uneconomic wells; and • indirect costs related to our exploration activities, including payroll and other expenses attributable to our exploration professional staff. In 2010, as a result of our May and October 2009 equity offerings and improved operational results, we are increasing our level of activity in the Williston Basin and currently estimate that we will spend $216.3 million on capital expenditures during 2010, which includes $199.3 million on drilling, land and seismic capital expenditures and $17.0 million for capitalized costs and other assets. Factors that could cause us to further increase our level of activity and capital budget in 2010 include a further reduction in service and material costs, the formation of joint ventures with other exploration and production companies, the divestiture of non-strategic assets, and a further improvement in commodity prices or well performance that exceeds our risked forecasts, all of which would positively impact our operating cash flow. Factors that would cause us to reduce our capital budget in 2010 include, but are not limited to, increases in service and materials costs, reductions in commodity prices or underperformance of wells relative to our risked forecasts, all of which would negatively impact our operating cash flow. 43 Table of Contents Our budgeted capital expenditures for 2010 are as follows: 2010 (In millions) Drilling $ 183.7 Net land and seismic 15.6 Capitalized costs 14.8 Other non-oil & gas assets 2.2 Total $ 216.3 The final determination with respect to our 2010 budgeted expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including: • commodity prices; • production from our existing producing wells; • the results of our current exploration and development drilling efforts; • economic conditions at the time of drilling; • industry conditions at the time of drilling, including the availability of drilling and completion equipment; • our liquidity and the availability of external sources of financing; and • the availability of more economically attractive prospects. There can be no assurance that the budgeted wells will, if drilled, encounter commercial quantities of oil or natural gas. The capital that funds our drilling activities is allocated to individual prospects based on the value potential of a prospect, as measured by a risked net present value analysis. We start each year with a budget and re-evaluate this budget monthly. The primary factors that impact this value creation measure include forecasted commodity prices, drilling and completion costs, and a prospect’s risked reserve size and risked initial producing rate. Other factors that are also monitored throughout the year that influence the amount and timing of all our planned expenditures include the level of production from our existing oil and natural gas properties, the availability of drilling and completion services, and the success and resulting production of our newly drilled wells. The outcome of our monthly analysis results in a reprioritization of our exploration and development drilling schedule to ensure that we are optimizing our capital expenditure plan. To support our prospect generation activities, we allocate a portion of our capital expenditures to land and seismic. Over the past three years, we have spent $55.1 million on land and seismic activities. For a more in depth discussion of our 2009 capital expenditures see “