ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and future results could be adversely impacted. The current uncertain economic conditions in the United States may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. There were indications of general economic recovery in the United States in 2010 compared to 2009; however, factors such as the continued high levels of unemployment and ongoing weakness in the housing sector have created much uncertainty in the strength and sustainability of the recovery. Any adverse change in economic conditions may again negatively affect our operating results and the broadcast industry in general by, among other things, reducing demand for local and national broadcast advertising and making it more difficult for customers to pay their accounts. In such an environment, we may experience downward pressure on our stock price and credit capacity without regard to our underlying financial strength. If high levels of market disruption and volatility return, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will likely be adversely affected, possibly materially. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted which could reduce our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any such disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. In addition, our cash balances will not yield significant interest income in this low-interest rate environment. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and other discretionary uses of cash. Uncertainty about current economic conditions could also affect the volatility of our stock price. We cannot predict the timing, magnitude or duration of any future economic downturn or any subsequent recovery. We depend on advertising revenues, which fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Our main source of revenue is the sale of advertising. Our ability to sell advertising depends on many factors, including the following: • the health of the economy, and particularly the economy of the Pacific Northwest region and Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon; • the popularity of our programming; • pricing fluctuations in local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media, particularly network, cable television, direct satellite television and radio, and the Internet; • the use of new services and devices that allow viewers to minimize commercial advertisements, such as satellite radio and personal digital video recorders; • increased competition for the leisure time of audiences, including video-on-demand, video game consoles, personal computers, Internet-delivered audio and video programming, and other sources of home entertainment; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; • level of consumer confidence; • level of political advertising spending; • advertisers’ budgets, which are affected by broad economic trends; 23 • size and demographic characteristics of our markets, especially the Pacific Northwest region; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. Our net broadcasting advertising revenue increased 32% in 2010 as compared to 2009 as a result of numerous factors including incremental improvement in economic conditions locally and regionally, increases in political spending during 2010, and increased monetization of our local advertising strategies. It is unclear whether all of those factors will continue to positively impact our revenue in 2011 or beyond. In addition, our results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, and as a result, second and fourth quarter broadcasting revenue is typically greater than first and third quarter broadcasting revenue. This seasonality is primarily attributable to increased consumer advertising in the spring and then increased retail advertising in anticipation of holiday season spending. Furthermore, revenue from political advertising is cyclical and varies based on the timing of federal, state, and local elections, as well as the presence of highly contested initiatives or ballot measures. For instance, because 2011 will not be a significant year for political advertising, our 2011 political advertising revenue is expected to decline compared to 2010. Also, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities or other circumstances beyond our control may cause us to lose our ability to operate our stations or, if we are able to broadcast under such circumstances, our broadcast operations may shift to around-the-clock news coverage, which would cause the loss of advertising revenues due to the suspension of advertising-supported commercial programming. In recent years, we have incurred losses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain profitability in the future. While we had income from continuing operations in 2010, in 2009 we had a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $14 million. We cannot assure you that our initiatives to improve our operating performance will be successful or that we will be able to maintain profitability in the future, especially given the current uncertain state of the national and regional economies and its effect on advertising revenues. Unfavorable resolution of tax returns and positions could adversely affect our tax expense and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, and local taxing authorities. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the year 2006 and onward. The IRS is currently conducting a field examination of the Company’s 2008 and 2009 U.S. tax returns. The State of California and Oregon have notified us that they will be conducting an audit of the Company’s 2007 and 2008 state tax returns. The IRS completed its field examination of our 2006 and 2007 U.S. tax returns in June 2009 and we paid $856,000 for the settlement of this examination, as well as $31,000 in interest expense. An unfavorable outcome to a U.S. tax audit or any other tax audit could result in higher tax costs and payments, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations and cash flows. Our federal and state income tax returns are subject to periodic examination, and the tax authorities may challenge certain of our tax positions as a result of examinations. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and we would vigorously defend these positions if challenged. The final disposition of any positions challenged by the tax authorities could require us to make additional tax payments. Such a resolution could also materially affect our effective tax rate for future periods. Because significant portions of our cost of services are fixed, downturns in the economy harm our operations, revenue, cash flow and earnings. Nearly all of our operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest region. The Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon markets are particularly important for our financial strength. Operating results in recent years, including 2009, were adversely impacted by the Pacific Northwest regional economy. While there were 24 improvements in 2010, any renewed weak economic conditions in these markets would harm our operations and financial condition. Because significant portions of our costs of services are fixed, we may be unable to materially reduce costs to offset declines in our revenues. As a result, we could suffer net losses if economic conditions once again deteriorate. In addition, any renewed downturn in the national economy could result in decreased national advertising sales. If this happens, it could harm our results of operations because national advertising sales represent a significant portion of our television advertising net revenue. Difficulties in the automotive, retail and other key advertising categories could materially affect our results and the value of our common stock. A significant portion of our revenue consists of advertising by companies in the retail and automotive sectors, two sectors that experienced extreme difficulties in 2009. While both industries improved in 2010, renewed difficulties in these and other key industries could adversely affected total advertising expenditures in the United States. Reductions in spending by these and other industries over the course of 2011 could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, and the value of our common stock. The non-renewal, modification, or cancellation of affiliation agreements with major television networks, including our affiliation agreement with FOX Network for KBFX which expired in June 2010, could harm our operating results. For each of our television stations that are affiliated with one of the four major television networks, such affiliation has a significant impact on the composition of the station’s programming, revenue, expenses and operations. In some instances, network affiliation agreements are not renewed, or in limited circumstances, may be cancelled by the network. For example, if a network acquires a television station in a market in which we own a station affiliated with that network, the network will likely decline to renew the affiliation agreement for our station in that market. Our two largest television stations, KOMO-TV, which broadcasts in Seattle, Washington, and KATU, which broadcasts in Portland, Oregon, have affiliation agreements with ABC Network with current terms expiring in August 2014. The major network affiliations for our television stations other than KOMO-TV and KATU are with CBS or FOX. Our affiliation agreements with CBS generally expire in February 2016. Our only affiliation agreement with FOX Network at KBFX, in Bakersfield, California, expired in June 2010. We continue to operate under the terms of the expired agreement as we engage in discussions on a new agreement. There can be no assurances as to the terms of any such new agreement, or whether in fact we will enter into a new agreement with FOX Network for KBFX. The non-renewal of any of our major network affiliation agreements could adversely affect our business and results. While we generally expect to renew our affiliation agreements prior to their expiration, there can be no assurances that we will do so, or on terms that are beneficial to us. Although none of our affiliation agreements with CBS or ABC are scheduled for renewal in 2011, any modification, cancellation or eventual non-renewal of any of these agreements could harm our operating results. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated may require as a condition to the renewal of affiliation agreements, among other things, cash payments to the network. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not remain in place under existing terms and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to affiliates on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation. If this occurs, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include the following: • increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; • short-term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; 25 • costs of building a new or larger news operation and other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and • the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation, if any. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network’s audience share and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network’s programming is accepted in an individual market. There can be no assurances that any future affiliation agreement will be obtainable on economic terms or other conditions that will be favorable to us, nor that any network could not change the type, quality, or quantity of programming provided to us in a way that could be detrimental to our operations. Our operating results are dependent on the success of programming aired by our television and radio stations, which depends in part upon factors beyond our control. Our advertising revenues are dependent on the success and popularity of our local, network and syndicated programming. We make significant commitments to acquire rights to television and radio programs under multi-year agreements. The success of such programs is dependent partly upon unpredictable factors such as audience preferences, competing programming, and the availability of other entertainment activities. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising to cover the costs of the program. In some instances, we may have to replace or cancel programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase operating costs. Our primary Seattle and Portland television stations, which accounted for approximately 63% of our television broadcasting revenue in 2010, are affiliated with the ABC Network. Twelve of our television stations are affiliated with one of the four major television networks, including ABC, six of our television stations are affiliated with Univision (Spanish language) and the remainder are independent or subscribe to various programming services. Any performance decline by ABC, CBS, or by other networks or network program suppliers, could harm our business and operating results. We rely on our stations’ ratings points when determining the advertising rates that we receive. The use of new ratings technologies and measurements could adversely impact our program ratings and reduce advertising pricing and spending. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Programming is a significant operating cost in our television businesses. There can be no assurances that we will not be exposed to future increases in programming costs, including, without limitation, for network programming. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, some television networks, including ABC Network, are requiring affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs and to eliminate network compensation traditionally paid to broadcast affiliates. We cannot predict the nature or scope of any such future compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. Acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In addition, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or a decline in the expected popularity of the programming for which we have acquired rights could lead to less than expected revenue which could result in programming write-offs. Additionally, in some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs. These write-offs increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. An increase in the cost of news programming and content or in the costs for on-air and creative talent may also increase our expenses, particularly during events requiring extended news coverage, and therefore adversely affect our business and operating results. 26 Radio and television programming revenue may be negatively affected by the cancellation of syndication agreements. Syndication agreements are licenses to broadcast programs that are produced by production companies. Such programming can form a significant component of a station’s programming schedule. Syndication agreements are subject to cancellation, which may affect a station’s programming schedule, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire rights to syndicated programs once our current contracts for these programs end. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television and radio businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could continue to adversely affect our television and radio stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives including cable, direct satellite-to-home services, video provided by telephone companies, satellite radio, pay-per-view, the Internet, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems, portable audio and video entertainment systems, and mobile phones have fractionalized television and radio audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes including the increased usage of video-on-demand have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire desired programming. Technologies that enable users to view content of their own choosing, in their own time, and to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs, portable digital devices, video-on-demand, and the Internet, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers. Other advances in technology, such as increasing use of local-cable advertising “interconnects,” which allow for easier insertion of advertising on local cable systems, have also increased competition for advertisers. In addition, video compression techniques permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting and cable satellite systems, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our television businesses. Any inability on our part to effectively respond to these technological changes may result in our inability to effectively compete for advertising revenue and programming. Competition in the broadcasting industry and the rise of alternative entertainment and communications media may result in loss of audience share and advertising revenue by our stations. Our television and radio stations face intense competition for market share, including competition from the following sources: • other local network affiliates and independent stations; • cable, direct broadcast satellite, satellite radio, digital radio, Internet radio, and alternative methods of broadcasting brought about by technological advances and innovations, including pay-per-view and home video and entertainment systems; • television networks, other programmers, and third party entities that have begun to distribute their audio and video programming directly to the consumer via the Internet and portable digital devices such as personal video players, tablet computers, and mobile phones; and 27 • other sources of news, information and entertainment, including streaming video broadcasts over the Internet, podcasting, newspapers, magazines, movie theaters and live sporting events. In addition to competing with other media outlets for audience share, we also compete for advertising revenue that comprises our primary source of revenue. Our stations compete for advertising revenue with other television and radio stations in their respective markets, as well as with other advertising media such as newspapers, the Internet, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directory, direct mail and local cable systems. Cable companies and others have national advertising networks that increase the competition for national advertising. Our stations also compete against other local media outlets for exclusive local access to programming. Competition for non-network programming involves negotiating with national program distributors or syndicators that sell first-run and off-network packages of programming. Our operating results are dependent in part upon the ability of each of our stations to compete successfully in its market, and there can be no assurance that any one of our stations will be able to maintain or increase its current audience share or revenue share. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Advertising rates are set based upon a variety of factors, including a program’s popularity among the advertiser’s target audience, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the demographic make-up of the market served and the availability of alternative advertising in the market. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. To the extent that certain of our competitors have, or may in the future obtain, greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources, audience share or revenue share, our ability to compete successfully in our broadcasting markets may be impeded. Recently third parties have begun to stream broadcast programming over the Internet without permission from broadcast stations. In at least one instance, programming from our Seattle television station, KOMO-TV, is being streamed without our consent. This practice can dilute the value of our programming and adversely affect our stations’ results of operations. Currently, we are a party to a lawsuit concerning such unauthorized streaming —WPIX Inc. et. al. v. ivi, Inc. and Todd Weaver-and we cannot predict the outcome of such litigation. Changes by the national broadcast television networks in their respective business models and practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the networks have streamed or allowed others to stream their programming on the Internet in close proximity to said programming’s broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. Networks have also moved programming, including some premium programming, to non-broadcast distribution platforms like cable channels owned by the networks. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial conditions and results of operations of our stations. If we are unable to secure or maintain carriage of our television stations’ signals over cable and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, our television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to FCC rules, local television stations may elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the station’s primary programming stream or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage, which may include carriage of a station’s primary and multicast programming streams. Unless a retransmission consent agreement is reached, cable and direct satellite operators are not required to carry our multicast programming streams. At present, we have retransmission consent agreements with the major cable operators in our markets and both satellite providers, including carriage of certain of our multicast programming streams. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on less favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. 28 In recent years, there have been several high-profile disputes in retransmission consent negotiations between broadcasters and cable and satellite operators. Several cable and satellite operators have filed a petition with the FCC seeking the agency’s intervention in the retransmission consent process, and the FCC has announced that it intends to open a separate proceeding on the retransmission consent rules. It is uncertain what, if any, impact these FCC proceedings may have on our television stations’ ability to secure and maintain signal carriage over cable or satellite, and our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. Pending initiatives to reallocate television spectrum and to impose a performance royalty on radio broadcasters could, if adopted, adversely affect our business, operation results, and stock price. New mobile communications technologies are increasingly offering Internet broadband services using wireless spectrum. In connection with the FCC’s development of a National Broadband Plan-a plan the FCC was required to develop pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 to ensure wide access to broadband capability throughout the United States—the FCC has expressed concern that the United States will not have spectrum sufficient to meet demand for wireless broadband services in the near future. The National Broadband Plan recommends that 120 MHz of spectrum in the bands currently licensed to television broadcasters be reallocated for wireless broadband services. Various scenarios are being considered, including voluntary reallocation of spectrum that broadcasters agree to surrender, which may be all or a portion of a particular station’s spectrum, and compensation to broadcasters from the proceeds from the auction of reallocated spectrum to other services. In December 2010, the FCC initiated a proceeding to begin its efforts to reallocate the television spectrum. One proposal in this new proceeding is to establish a framework in which two or more television stations may share a single 6 MHz channel. This reallocation could limit our ability to realize the full potential of digital television, including high definition, multicast programming, and mobile digital television. Related reductions in the quality or quantity of our services may impede our ability to compete for programming, diminish the size of our audience, or reduce our advertising revenues. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any proposals made in this or related proceedings proceeding; however, the reallocation of all or some portions of our television stations’ spectrum and increased competition from new mobile communications technologies could materially affect our operating results, financial condition and stock price. The recording industry continues to request that Congress impose a performance royalty on radio broadcasters that would require local stations to pay record labels and performers for the music they air on the radio without charge to listeners. This royalty would be in addition to the license fees already paid by broadcasters to songwriters and composers. Performance royalty legislation was introduced in 2009, but it has failed to pass, and it remains to be seen if the new Congress in 2011 will favor or oppose performance royalty legislation. If enacted a performance royalty could materially affect the financial results of our radio stations. Changes in FCC regulations regarding ownership have increased the uncertainty surrounding the competitive position of our stations in the markets we serve. Section 202(h) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires the FCC to review its ownership rules every four years to “determine whether any of such rules are necessary in the public interest as the result of competition.” Under Section 202(h), the FCC “shall repeal or modify any regulation it determines to be no longer in the public interest.” The FCC concluded its 2006 Quadrennial Review in February 2008, in which the FCC also addressed issues raised by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in connection with the Third Circuit’s review of the FCC’s 2002 ownership rule review. In the 2002 review, the FCC relaxed certain of its local media ownership rules, including its local television ownership limitations and its prohibition against common ownership of newspapers and broadcast stations in the same market. It also modified its local radio ownership limitations in a way that could limit our ability to acquire additional radio stations in existing markets that we serve. The FCC’s new rules were to have become effective on September 4, 2003, but were stayed by the Third Circuit. In June 2004, the court remanded the new rules to the FCC with instructions to undertake additional analysis of the 29 record in order to justify its decision. In September 2004, the Third Circuit court lifted its stay insofar as it applied to the modified local radio ownership rules. In the 2008 remand order, the FCC liberalized its broadcast/newspaper cross-ownership rule and declined to modify its other ownership rules which, except for the modified local radio ownership rules, are currently in effect as effective prior to the FCC’s 2002 review. In March 2010, the Third Circuit lifted its 2003 stay of the revised broadcast/newspaper cross-ownership rule. Recently, the FCC commenced its 2010 Quadrennial Review of its media ownership rules. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding nor the effect that any particular outcome will have on our stations and business. Under existing law a single entity is permitted to have an attributable interest in television stations serving up to 39% of U.S. television households. The 39% cap is statutorily excluded from the FCC quadrennial review requirement. Large broadcast groups may take advantage of this law to expand further their ownership interests on a national basis. Any relaxation of ownership restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to those with greater financial and other resources than we possess. Changes in laws and regulations of the broadcasting industry and changes in enforcement policies may have an adverse effect on our business. The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Compliance with and the effects of existing and future regulations could have a material adverse impact on us. We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio and television stations. Issuance, renewal, assignment, or transfer of broadcast station operating licenses requires FCC approval. Under the Communications Act, the FCC generally may grant and renew broadcast licenses for terms of eight years, though licenses may be renewed for a shorter period or denied under certain circumstances. While the majority of such licenses are renewed by the FCC, we cannot assure you that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates, or, if renewed, that the renewal terms will be for eight years. If the FCC decides to include conditions or qualifications in any of our licenses, we may be limited in the manner in which we may operate the affected stations. Except for KATU (and KATU’s translator stations), FCC licenses for our various television and radio stations expire in 2013, 2014 or 2015. The license renewal application for KATU (and KATU’s translator stations) for the term expiring February 1, 2007, was timely filed in September 2006. On December 22, 2006, a petition to deny was filed by Oregon Alliance to Reform Media, or OARM, against KATU and seven other television stations licensed to serve the Portland, Oregon market. OARM argued that the stations each failed to present adequate programming relating to state and local elections during the 2004 election cycle in their news and public affairs programming. The FCC’s Media Bureau rejected OARM’s petition. However, on September 14, 2007, OARM petitioned the FCC for reconsideration of that decision. That petition remains pending, and we cannot predict when or how the FCC will address it. KATU’s and its translator stations’ authority to operate is automatically extended while its renewal application is on file and under review. We must comply with extensive FCC ownership regulations and policies. In general, the FCC’s ownership rules limit the number of television and radio stations that we can own in a market and the number of television stations we can own nationwide. The FCC attributes interests held by, among others, a licensee entity’s officers, directors, certain stockholders, and in some circumstances, lenders, to that entity for purposes of applying these ownership limitations. The ownership rules may prevent us from acquiring additional stations in a particular market. We may also be prevented from engaging in a swap transaction if the swap would cause the other company to violate these rules. We may further be prevented from implementing certain joint operations with competitors that might make the operation of our stations more efficient. The ownership rules may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may thereby affect our operating results. 30 Federal law and the FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time, and the broadcast of indecent or profane material during the period from 6 a.m. through 10 p.m. In recent years, the FCC has vigorously enforced its indecency prohibition, and in 2006, legislation was enacted that raised the maximum monetary penalty for the broadcast of obscene, indecent, or profane language to $325,000 for each “violation,” with a cap of $3 million for any “single act.” The determination of whether content is indecent or profane is inherently subjective, creates uncertainty as to our ability to comply with the rules (in particular during live programming), and impacts our programming decisions. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The FCC’s indecency enforcement policy is currently the subject of federal litigation by networks and broadcasters. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain. In recent years, the FCC has also vigorously enforced a number of other rules, typically in connection with license renewals. For example, in recent years, the FCC has issued fines and sanctions for violations of its equal employment opportunity rules, public inspection file rules, children’s programming rules, commercial time limits rules, sponsorship identification rules, closed captioning rules, station-conducted contest rules, and emergency alert system rules. We may experience disruptions in our business if we sell or acquire and integrate new television or radio stations. As part of our business strategy and subject to market conditions, we plan to continue to evaluate opportunities to sell or acquire television and radio stations. If we make acquisitions in the future, we may need to use more of our existing cash, incur more debt, or issue equity securities, and we may incur contingent liabilities and amortization and/or impairment expenses related to intangible assets. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will find other attractive acquisition candidates or effectively manage the integration of acquired stations into our existing business. If the expected operating efficiencies from acquisitions do not materialize, if we fail to integrate new stations or recently acquired stations into our existing business, if the costs of such integration exceed expectations or if undertaking such sales or acquisitions diverts management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, television and radio station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television or radio stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. We have a significant amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments of these assets in the past. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income or increase net loss, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our common stock. We currently have approximately $53.8 million of goodwill and intangibles included in our total assets, which represents approximately 17% of our total assets. We test goodwill at the reporting unit level and intangible assets annually in October or whenever certain triggering events or circumstances occur, including, but not limited to changing business conditions and outlook, significant slowdown in the economic environment, and significant reduction in our market capitalization, indicating that goodwill or intangible assets might be impaired. For example, we recorded an impairment charge of $76.7 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. In recent years, declines in advertising revenues adversely affected investors’ outlooks on the market value of broadcasting companies including ours. Trends like this may be considered an indicator of impairment, and if they reemerge, they could require us to perform an impairment analysis in advance of our annual impairment testing. In addition, any significant shortfall in advertising revenue could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting segments. If impairment is indicated as a result of future evaluations, we would record a further impairment charge in accordance with accounting rules, which would reduce any reported net income or increase any reported net loss for the period in which the charge is taken, and which could adversely affect the value of 31 our common stock. We may need to take additional impairments in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of our future impairments. As a result, we could recognize further impairments in future quarters on the approximately $53.8 million goodwill and intangibles currently included in our total assets. Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2010, we had total debt, in the form of 8.625% senior notes due 2014, in the aggregate principal amount of $101.4 million. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions and resulting downturn in our business; • reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general business purposes; • reduce the funds available to purchase the rights to television and radio programs; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industries, making us more vulnerable to economic downturns; • limit our ability to raise additional funding; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. If our indebtedness produces such adverse effects, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could suffer, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Furthermore, the indenture governing our 8.625% senior notes due 2014 permits us to incur additional debt only if we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with other covenants. Refer to Note 8 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the covenants included in the indenture. The failure to comply with the covenants in the indenture could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our payment obligations under the notes. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion of our indebtedness. Dependence on key personnel may expose us to additional risks. Our business is dependent on the performance of certain key employees, including executive officers and senior operational personnel. While we have entered into change of control agreements with some of our key executives, we do not enter into employment agreements with most of our key executive officers and senior operational personnel. We also employ several on-air personalities who have significant loyal audiences in their respective markets, with whom we have entered into employment agreements. We cannot assure you that all such key personnel or on-air personalities will remain with us or that our on-air personalities will renew their contracts. The loss of any key personnel could harm our operations and financial results. Failure of our information technology systems would disrupt our operations, which could reduce our customer base and result in lost revenue. Our computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, unauthorized tampering, system failures and potential obsolescence. Our operations depend on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers and computer systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Our computer systems are also subject to potential system failures and obsolescence. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data that would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. 32 Our ownership and operation of Fisher Plaza is subject to risks, including those relating to the economic climate, local real estate conditions, potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, potential collection problems, reliance on significant tenants, and regulatory risks. Revenue and operating income from, and the value of, Fisher Plaza may be adversely affected by the general economic climate, the Seattle economic climate and real estate conditions, including prospective tenants’ perceptions of the attractiveness of the property and the availability of space in other competing properties. In addition, the economic conditions in the telecommunications and high-tech sectors may significantly affect our ability to attract tenants to Fisher Plaza, because space at Fisher Plaza is marketed in significant part to organizations from these sectors. Other risks relating to the operation of Fisher Plaza include the potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, and the potential inability to collect rent, due to bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, especially in light of the current difficult economic environment. We also risk facing lower rents due to the continuing uncertain economic conditions and abundance of available commercial space in downtown Seattle. Real estate income and values may also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rent loss insurance with respect to Fisher Plaza. There are, however, certain losses that may be either uninsurable, not economically insurable, or in excess of our current insurance coverage limits. If an uninsured loss occurs, it could harm our operating results. We may experience volatility in the market price of our common stock due to the lower trading volume and lower public ownership of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In particular, the volatility of our shares is influenced by lower trading volume and lower public ownership relative to many of our publicly-held competitors, as well as the recent turmoil in the stock market. For example, our closing stock price has ranged from a high of $27.72 per share to a low of $7.34 per share during the period between January 1, 2009 and February 28, 2011. Because several of our shareholders own significant portions of our outstanding shares, our stock is relatively less liquid and therefore more susceptible to large price fluctuations than many other companies’ shares. If these shareholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. The effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. Investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such shareholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including without limitation, quarterly variations in operating results; announcements by us or our competitors; announcements relating to strategic decisions or key personnel; industry developments; service disruptions; acts of war, terrorism, or national calamities; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by security analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources or otherwise harm our business. 33 We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, if identified in future periods, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of our annual report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to audit and provide a separate opinion on their evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. If we or our independent registered public accountants discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Our operations may be adversely affected by earthquakes and other natural catastrophes in the Pacific Northwest or California. Our corporate headquarters, Fisher Plaza and the majority of our operations are located in the Pacific Northwest and we own two television stations in California. The Pacific Northwest and California have from time to time experienced earthquakes. We do not know the ultimate impact on our operations of being located near major earthquake faults, but an earthquake could harm our operating results. Our broadcasting towers may also be affected by other natural catastrophes, such as forest fires. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes or other natural catastrophes. We could be negatively affected as a result of a currently threatened proxy fight. In January 2011, a dissident shareholder declared its intention to nominate four individuals for election to our Board of Directors at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. A proxy contest could negatively affect us because: • Responding to proxy contests and other actions by dissident shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees; • Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may impact our existing and potential strategic and operational relationships and opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel; • If individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our current business plan which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; and • A proxy contest could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 34 