1A. Risk Factors — Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.” Components of Our Cost Structure Production Costs are the day-to-day costs we incur to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market combined with the daily costs we incur to maintain our producing properties. This includes lease operating expenses and production taxes. • Lease operating expenses are generally comprised of several components including: the cost of labor and supervision to operate our wells and related equipment; repairs and maintenance; fluid treatment and disposal; related materials, supplies, and fuel; and insurance applicable to our wells and related facilities and equipment. Lease operating expenses also include the cost for expensed workovers. Lease operating expenses are driven in part by the type of commodity produced, the level of workover activity and the geographical location of the properties. • Lease operating expenses also include ad valorem taxes, which are imposed by local taxing authorities such as school districts, cities, and counties or boroughs. The amount of tax we pay is based on a percent of value of the property assessed or determined by the taxing authority on an annual basis. When crude oil and natural gas prices rise, the value of our underlying property interests increase, which results in higher ad valorem taxes. 38 Table of Contents • In the U.S., there are a variety of state and federal taxes levied on the production of crude oil and natural gas. These are commonly grouped together and referred to as production taxes. The majority of our production tax expense is based on a percent of gross value realized at the wellhead at the time the production is sold or removed from the lease. As a result, our production tax expense increases when crude oil and gas prices rise or when production from an area increases. • Historically, taxing authorities have occasionally encouraged the oil and natural gas industry to explore for new crude oil and natural gas reserves, or to develop high cost reserves, through reduced tax rates or tax credits. These incentives have been narrow in scope and short-lived. A small number of our wells have qualified for reduced production taxes because they were discoveries based on the use of 3-D seismic or they are high cost wells. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization is the systematic expensing of the capital costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop crude oil and natural gas. As a full cost company, we capitalize all direct costs associated with our exploration and development efforts, including a portion of our interest and certain general and administrative costs, and apportion these costs to each unit of production sold through depletion expense. Generally, if reserve quantities are revised up or down, our depletion rate per unit of production will change inversely. When the depreciable capital cost base increases or decreases, the depletion rate will move in the same direction. Asset Retirement Accretion Expense is the systematic, monthly accretion of future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. General and Administrative Expense includes payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, managing our production and development operations and legal compliance. We capitalize general and administrative costs directly related to prospect generation and our exploration activities. Interest. We have relied on our Senior Credit Facility to fund our short-term liquidity (working capital) and a portion of our long-term financing needs. The interest rate that we pay on our Senior Credit Facility correlates with both fluctuations in interest rates and the amount outstanding under the facility. We pay a fixed interest rate on our Senior Notes. We expect to continue to incur interest expense as we continue to use debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures. We capitalize interest directly related to our unevaluated properties and certain properties under development, which are not being amortized. Income Taxes. We are generally subject to a 35% federal income tax rate. For income tax purposes, we are allowed deductions for accelerated depreciation, depletion, intangible drilling costs, and state taxes. Through 2010, all of our federal and state income taxes were deferred. Capital Commitments Our primary needs for cash are to fund our capital expenditure program, our working capital obligations and for the repayment of contractual obligations. In the future, cash will also be required to fund our capital expenditures for the exploration and development of properties necessary to offset the inherent declines in production and proven reserves that are typical in an extractive industry like ours and also to hold acreage that would otherwise expire if not drilled. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on our access to cost effective capital resources and our success in economically finding and producing additional crude oil and natural gas reserves. Funding for our exploration and development of crude oil and natural gas activities and the repayment of our contractual obligations may be provided by any combination of cash flow from operations, cash on our balance sheet, the unused committed borrowing capacity under our Senior Credit Facility, reimbursements of prior land and seismic costs by third parties who participate in our projects, and the sale of interests in projects and properties or alternative financing sources as discussed in “- Contractual Obligations” and “- Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Cash flows from operations and the unused committed borrowing capacity under our Senior Credit Facility fund our working capital obligations. 39 Table of Contents Overview of Capital Activity The application of advanced drilling and completion technologies in the Williston Basin and the associated improvements in well economics as well as the commodity price advantage of crude oil relative to natural gas has led us to increase both the total amount of capital expended and the percentage allocation of our capital budget to the Williston Basin and to decrease our spending in our other conventional natural gas focused provinces. In October 2009, we completed a public offering of common stock and raised $168.3 million in net proceeds in order to pre-fund an increased level drilling activity in 2010. Our preliminary 2010 capital budget announced in October 2009, concurrent with the equity offering, was estimated to be $175.8 million. We estimated that we would have four drilling rigs running throughout 2010 in the Williston Basin and would drill 24 net Bakken and Three Forks wells. In April 2010, we completed a public offering of common stock and raised $277.5 million in net proceeds in order to pre-fund a further acceleration in the Williston Basin. Our revised 2010 capital budget announced concurrent with the equity offering, was estimated to be $293.9 million. We estimated that we would add an incremental operated drilling rig every four months beginning May 2010 and would have eight operated rigs running in the Williston Basin by May 2011 and would therefore drill 31 net wells in the basin during 2010. Approximately $37.8 million of the aforementioned capital budget would be used to fund the construction of support infrastructure. In August 2010, we revised our 2010 capital budget largely as a result of several large acreage acquisitions, which increased our acreage in the Williston Basin by approximately 52,800 net acres. Our revised capital budget announced in August 2010 was estimated to be approximately $404.0 million and included approximately 38 net Williston Basin wells and $95.7 million for land. In September 2010, we issued $300 million in Senior Notes due 2018 to fund the tender offer for and redemption of our 9 5/8% Senior Notes due in 2014 and to pre-fund our 2011 capital budget and for general corporate purposes. In November 2010, we revised our 2010 capital budget to $466.1 million largely as a result of the expectation of drilling and completing 45 net Williston Basin wells. We also increased our land budget and our support infrastructure budget by approximately $19 million and $3 million, respectively. See “Capital Expenditures” for a discussion of our 2011 budget. Capital Expenditures The timing of most of our capital expenditures is discretionary because we operate the majority of our wells. During 2010, we executed an agreement with a drilling contractor to enter into commitments for two walking drilling rigs for a three year period beginning upon their delivery date, which is anticipated to be in the first quarter 2012. Other than the aforementioned obligations, we have no material long-term capital expenditure commitments. Consequently, we have a significant degree of flexibility to adjust the level of our capital expenditures as circumstances warrant. Our capital expenditure program includes the following: • cost of acquiring and maintaining our lease acreage position and our seismic resources; • cost of drilling and completing new crude oil and natural gas wells; • cost of installing and maintaining new support infrastructure; • cost of maintaining, repairing and enhancing existing crude oil and natural gas wells; • cost related to plugging and abandoning unproductive or uneconomic wells; and • indirect costs related to our exploration activities, including payroll and other expenses attributable to our exploration professional staff. The capital that funds our drilling activities is allocated to individual prospects based on the value potential of a prospect, as measured by a risked net present value analysis. We start each year with a budget and re-evaluate this budget monthly. The primary factors that impact this value creation measure include forecasted commodity prices, drilling and completion costs, and a prospect’s risked reserve size and risked initial producing rate. Other factors that are also monitored throughout the year that influence the amount and timing of our planned expenditures include the level of production from our existing crude oil and natural gas properties, the availability of drilling and completion services, and the success and resulting production of our newly drilled wells. The outcome of our monthly analysis results in a reprioritization of our exploration and development drilling schedule to ensure that we are optimizing our capital expenditure plan. 40 Table of Contents The final determination with respect to our 2011 budgeted expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including: • commodity prices; • production from our existing producing wells; • the results of our current exploration and development drilling efforts; • economic conditions at the time of drilling; • industry conditions at the time of drilling, including the availability of drilling and completion equipment; • our liquidity and the availability of external sources of financing; and • the availability of more economically attractive prospects. There can be no assurance that the budgeted wells will, if drilled, encounter commercial quantities of crude oil or natural gas. Factors that could cause us to further increase our level of activity and capital budget in 2011 include an improvement in commodity prices or well performance that exceeds our risked forecasts, the divestiture of non-strategic conventional assets, a reduction in service and material costs, or the formation of joint ventures with other exploration and production companies outside of our core de-risked acreage positions in the Williston Basin, all of which would positively impact our operating cash flow. Factors that would cause us to reduce our capital budget in 2011 include, but are not limited to, reductions in commodity prices or underperformance of wells relative to our risked forecasts or increases in service and materials costs, all of which would negatively impact our operating cash flow. Our budgeted oil and gas capital expenditures for 2011 are as follows: 2011 (In millions) Drilling $ 582.1 Support infrastructure 83.2 Land 27.4 Total oil and gas capital expenditures $ 692.7 To support our prospect generation activities, we allocate a portion of our capital expenditures to land and seismic. Over the past three years, we have spent $162.9 million on land, excluding proceeds from asset sales, to expand our acreage position primarily in the Williston Basin. For a more in depth discussion of our 2010 and 2011 capital expenditures see “