Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.” Components of Our Cost Structure Production Costs are the day-to-day costs we incur to bring hydrocarbons out of the ground and to the market combined with the daily costs we incur to maintain our producing properties. This includes lease operating expenses and production taxes. — Lease operating expenses are generally comprised of several components including: the cost of labor and supervision to operate our wells and related equipment; repairs and maintenance; fluid treatment and disposal; related materials, supplies, and fuel; and insurance applicable to our wells and related facilities and equipment. Lease operating expenses also include the cost for expensed workovers. Lease operating expenses are driven in part by the type of commodity produced, the level of workover activity and the geographical location of the properties. Oil is inherently more expensive to produce than natural gas. — Lease operating expenses also include ad valorem taxes, which are imposed by local taxing authorities such as school districts, cities, and counties or boroughs. The amount of tax we pay is based on a percent of value of the property assessed or determined by the taxing authority on an annual basis. When oil and natural gas prices rise, the value of our underlying property interests increase, which results in higher ad valorem taxes. 36 Table of Contents — In the U.S., there are a variety of state and federal taxes levied on the production of oil and natural gas. These are commonly grouped together and referred to as production taxes. The majority of our production tax expense is based on a percent of gross value realized at the wellhead at the time the production is sold or removed from the lease. As a result, our production tax expense increases when oil and gas prices rise. — Historically, taxing authorities have occasionally encouraged the oil and natural gas industry to explore for new oil and natural gas reserves, or to develop high cost reserves, through reduced tax rates or tax credits. These incentives have been narrow in scope and short-lived. A small number of our wells have qualified for reduced production taxes because they were discoveries based on the use of 3-D seismic or they are high cost wells. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization is the systematic expensing of the capital costs incurred to acquire, explore and develop oil and natural gas. As a full cost company, we capitalize all direct costs associated with our exploration and development efforts, including a portion of our interest and certain general and administrative costs, and apportion these costs to each unit of production sold through depletion expense. Generally, if reserve quantities are revised up or down, our depletion rate per unit of production will change inversely. When the depreciable capital cost base increases or decreases, the depletion rate will move in the same direction. Asset Retirement Accretion Expense is the systematic, monthly accretion of future abandonment costs of tangible assets such as wells, service assets, pipelines, and other facilities. General and Administrative Expense includes payroll and benefits for our corporate staff, costs of maintaining our headquarters, managing our production and development operations and legal compliance. We capitalize general and administrative costs directly related to prospect generation and our exploration activities. Interest. We rely on our senior credit facility to fund our short-term liquidity (working capital) and a portion of our long-term financing needs. We pay a fixed interest rate on both the Senior Notes and the preferred stock, but the interest rate that we pay on our senior credit facility correlates with both fluctuations in interest rates and the amount outstanding under the facility. We expect to continue to incur interest expense as we continue to grow. We capitalize interest directly related to our unevaluated properties and certain properties under development, which are not being amortized. Income Taxes. We are generally subject to a 35% federal income tax rate. For income tax purposes, we are allowed deductions for accelerated depreciation, depletion, intangible drilling costs, and state taxes. Through 2008, all of our federal and state income taxes were deferred. Capital Commitments Our primary needs for cash are to fund our capital expenditure program, our working capital obligations and for the repayment of contractual obligations. In the future, cash will also be required to fund our capital expenditures for the exploration and development of properties necessary to offset the inherent declines in production and proven reserves that are typical in an extractive industry like ours. Future success in growing reserves and production will be highly dependent on our access to cost effective capital resources and our success in economically finding and producing additional oil and natural gas reserves. Funding for our exploration and development of oil and natural gas activities and the repayment of our contractual obligations may be provided by any combination of cash flow from operations, cash on our balance sheet, the unused committed borrowing capacity under our senior credit agreement, reimbursements of prior land and seismic costs by third parties who participate in our projects, and the sale of interests in projects and properties or alternative financing sources as discussed in “— Contractual Obligations” and “— Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Cash flows from operations and the unused committed borrowing capacity under our senior credit agreement fund our working capital obligations. Overview of Activity We commenced drilling on our Williston Basin acreage east of the Nesson Anticline in late 2007 and brought our first wells on-line during early 2008. Our improving operational results experienced during 2008, largely attributable to increasing the number of fracture stimulation stages in each horizontal wellbore, led us to increase our budget in the Williston Basin and reduce our activity in our conventional portfolio except for our drilling activity in Southern Louisiana. In the second half of 2008, we added a second rig in the Bakken in order to accelerate our drilling east of the Nesson Anticline in Mountrail County, North Dakota as well as to begin development of our acreage west of the Nesson Anticline in Williams and McKenzie Counties, North Dakota. 37 Table of Contents In the second half of 2008, commodity prices began to rapidly decrease due to demand destruction experienced in the first half of 2008 as well as the onset of the current worldwide financial crisis. In response, we have reduced our anticipated level of capital expenditures for 2009. This includes releasing both of our operated rigs in the Williston Basin in order to conserve liquidity. Our reduced level of activity also includes pushing out the completion of wells drilled in late 2008 and in early 2009 until later in 2009. We anticipate that service costs will decrease during 2009 as other exploration and production companies reduce their drilling activity and therefore believe that by pushing out the completion of several of our recently drilled wells we can reduce our drilling and completion costs. Finally, we have been very selective about the non-operated wells we participated in during 2009. We are currently electing to participate in only the highest rate of return non-operated locations, which includes our acreage in the Parshall, Austin and Sanish fields. We would like to be in the position to resume our drilling activity in the either the Williston Basin or the Vicksburg in the second half of 2009 subject to service costs reductions and a rebound in commodity prices. Depending on the relative movement of oil and natural gas prices, we will either drill in our oil weighted properties in the Williston Basin or our natural gas weighted properties in the Vicksburg. In order to focus our efforts on drilling our acreage during the second half of 2009, we anticipate dramatically reducing our levels of land and seismic acquisition costs. Other efforts to enhance our liquidity and therefore accelerate our drilling include potentially forming a joint venture with another exploration and production company in the Williston Basin, selling a portion of our acreage position in the Williston Basin, selling our mineral acreage interests in the Williston Basin or another potential divestiture transaction. 38 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures The timing of most of our capital expenditures is discretionary because we operate the majority of our wells and we have no material long-term capital expenditure commitments. Consequently, we have a significant degree of flexibility to adjust the level of our capital expenditures as circumstances warrant. Our capital expenditure program includes the following: • cost of acquiring and maintaining our lease acreage position and our seismic resources; • cost of drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells; • cost of installing new production infrastructure; • cost of maintaining, repairing and enhancing existing oil and natural gas wells; • cost related to plugging and abandoning unproductive or uneconomic wells; and • indirect costs related to our exploration activities, including payroll and other expenses attributable to our exploration professional staff. The financial crisis and dramatic downturn in commodity prices has caused us to dramatically reduce our planned capital expenditure budget for 2009. Further, the high level of service costs in effect at year-end relative to commodity prices during the first two months of 2009 negatively impacted drilling returns. As a consequence, after completing the drilling phase of wells that were in progress at year-end 2008, we have elected to shut down all drilling activity. The capital budget outlined below is very conservative plan for 2009, mainly consisting of completing wells that were in progress at year-end 2008 and participating in non-operated wells in the Parshall, Austin and Sanish fields, which are located east of the Nesson Anticline in Mountrail County, North Dakota. Factors that could cause us to increase our level of activity in 2009 include an appropriate decline in service costs that are commensurate with commodity prices at the time, the formation of a joint venture with another exploration and production company, the completion of a sale of a portion of our acreage position, the completion of a financing transaction, or the rebound in commodity prices. Our budgeted capital expenditures for 2009 are as follows: 2009 (In millions) Drilling $ 26.7 Net land and seismic (2.4 ) Capitalized costs 12.5 Other non-oil & gas assets 0.3 Total $ 37.1 The final determination with respect to our 2009 budgeted expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including: • commodity prices; • production from our existing producing wells; • the results of our current exploration and development drilling efforts; • economic conditions at the time of drilling; • industry conditions at the time of drilling, including the availability of drilling and completion equipment; • our liquidity and the availability of external sources of financing; and • the availability of more economically attractive prospects. There can be no assurance that the budgeted wells will, if drilled, encounter commercial quantities of oil or natural gas. The capital that funds our drilling activities is allocated to individual prospects based on the value potential of a prospect, as measured by a risked net present value analysis. We start each year with a budget and re-evaluate this budget monthly. The primary factors that impact this value creation measure include forecasted commodity prices, drilling and completion costs, and a prospect’s risked reserve size and risked initial producing rate. Other factors that are also monitored throughout the year that influence the amount and timing of all our planned expenditures include the level of production from our existing oil and natural gas properties, the availability of drilling and completion services, and the success and resulting production of our newly drilled wells. The outcome of our monthly analysis results in a reprioritization of our exploration and development drilling schedule to ensure that we are optimizing our capital expenditure plan. To support our prospect generation activities, we allocate a portion of our capital expenditures to land and seismic. Over the past three years, we have spent $85.0 million on land and seismic activities. 39 Table of Contents For a more in depth discussion of our 2008 capital expenditures see “