D. RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report. We may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may also impair our business. In general, you take more risk when you invest in the securities of issuers in emerging markets such as Argentina than when you invest in the securities of issuers in the United States. You should understand that an investment in our common shares and ADSs involves a high degree of risk, including the possibility of loss of your entire investment. Risks Related to Argentina Argentina’s growth may not be sustainable. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high inflation and currency devaluation. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis, which caused a significant economic contraction and led to radical changes in government policies. Although the economy has recovered significantly since then, uncertainty remains as to whether the recent growth is sustainable, since it has depended, to a significant extent, on favorable exchange rates, high commodity prices and excess production capacity. The recovery, however, has resulted in inflation and has intensified the country’s need for capital investment, with many sectors, particularly the energy sector, operating near full capacity. Additionally, the global financial crisis and economic downturn of 2008 has had a significant adverse impact on the country’s performance and could remain a factor in the foreseeable future. In 2012, the Argentine GDP increased 2.1%, according to data published by the National Institute of Statistics (“Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos” or the “INDEC”). For the six months ended June 30, 2013, GDP increased 7.3% relative to the same period the prior year, according to data published by the INDEC. As of June 30, 2013, the Monthly Economic Activity Estimator (“Estimador Mensual de Actividad Económica” or the “EMAE”) increased 5.7%, relative to the same period the prior year, according to data published by the INDEC. 8 The economic and financial slowdown in certain European countries, the United States, and certain other important commercial partners of Argentina, may imply a decline in the international demand for Argentine products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of operations. Moreover, the country’s relative stability since 2002 has been affected by increased political tension and government intervention in the economy. Our business depends to a significant extent on macroeconomic and political conditions in Argentina. We cannot assure you that Argentina’s recent growth will continue. Deterioration of the country’s economy would likely have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continuing inflation may have an adverse effect on the economy. The devaluation of the Peso since January 2002 has created pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation throughout 2002, before inflation substantially stabilized in 2003. In the fiscal years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, inflation according to the INDEC was 8.5%, 11.0%, 9.7%, 9.9% and 10.5% respectively, in part due to actions implemented by the Argentine government to control inflation, including limitations on exports and price arrangements agreed upon with private companies. The uncertainty surrounding future inflation may impact the country’s growth. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions conducive to growth. A return to a high inflation environment would adversely affect the availability of long-term credit and the real estate market and may also affect Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation and negatively impacting the level of economic activity and employment. Additionally, high inflation would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness and adversely affect economic activity, employment, real salaries, consumption and interest rates. In addition, the dilution of the positive effects of the Peso devaluation on the export-oriented sectors of the Argentine economy will decrease the level of economic activity in the country. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coefciente de Estabilización de Referencia, (“CER Index”, per its aconym in spanish), a currency index that is strongly tied to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in Argentina’s debt and, consequently, the country`s financial obligation. If inflation remains high or continues to rise, Argentina’s economy may be negatively impacted and our business could be adversely affected. There are concerns about the accuracy of Argentina’s official inflation statistics. In January 2007, the INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index, which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Several economists, as well as the international and Argentine press, have suggested that this change in methodology was related to the policy of the Argentine government intended to curb the increase of inflation and consequently reduce payments on the outstanding inflation-linked bonds issued by Argentina. At the time that the INDEC adopted this change in methodology the Argentine government also replaced several key officers at the INDEC, prompting complaints of governmental interference from the technical staff at the INDEC. In addition, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) requested to clarify its inflation rates several times. In June 2008, the INDEC published a new consumer price index which eliminated nearly half of the items included in previous surveys and introduced adjustable weightings for several items as fruits, vegetables and clothing, which have seasonal cost variations. The INDEC has indicated that it based its evaluation of spending habits on a national household consumption survey from 2004 to 2005, in addition to other sources. The aforementioned 2008 consumer price index has been criticized by economists and investors after its debut report found prices rising well below expectations. These events have negatively affected the credibility of the consumer price index published by the INDEC, as well as other indexes published by the INDEC which require the consumer price index for their own calculation, including the poverty index, the unemployment index and real gross domestic product index. Argentina’s inflation rate may be significantly higher than the rates indicated by official reports. In December 2010, the Argentine government agreed to meet with an official IMF team which arrived in Argentina to assist the INDEC with the development of a new national price index. In April 2011, the IMF team completed the second technical mission to assist on the design and methodology of a new national price index. As of the date of this annual report, the Argentine government has informed to the IMF that a new nationwide consumer price index will be applied in the foreseeable future, furthermore the Argentine government has stated that the new figures from the new consumer price may be differ with the consumer price now emplaced; in that sense all Argentine provinces have already signed an agreement to enter into the aforementioned new consumer price index, which will be submitted to the IMF during November 2013. Any required correction or restatement of the INDEC indexes could result in a significant decrease in the confidence in Argentina´s economy, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our ability to access to the international capital markets to finance our operations and growth, which, in turn, adversely aeffect our results of operations and financial conditions and cause the market value of our ADSs to decline. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth In 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. As a result of the restructuring the Argentine government announced that it had approximately US$ 129.2 billion in total gross public debt as of December 31, 2005. Certain bondholders that did not participate in that restructuring, mainly from the United States, Italy and Germany, filed legal actions against Argentina to collect on the defaulted bonds. Many of these proceedings are still pending as of this date and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. In September 2008, Argentina announced its intention to cancel its external public debt to Paris Club creditor nations using reserves of the Central Bank in an amount equal to approximately US$ 6.5 billion. However, as of the date of this Annual Report, the National Government has not yet cancelled such debt. If no agreement with the Paris Club creditor nations is reached, financing from multilateral credit institutions may be limited or not available. In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”) alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and 9 equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, the ICSID tribunals have issued several awards against Argentina. Only the cases “CMS v. Argentina”, “Azurix v. Argentina” and “Vivendi v. Argentina” are currently final. This decisions required the Argentine government to pay US$ 133.2 million, US$ 165.2 million and US$ 105 million, respectively. During the month of October 2013, the Argentinean Government has announced that has arrived to an agreement to settle the aforementioned claims against Argentina, in a settlement agreement which establishes a 25% nominal haircut, and the investment in newly sovereign bonds of Argentina to be issued, among other conditions. On April 30, 2010, Argentina launched a new debt exchange to holders of the securities issued in the 2005 debt exchange and to holders of the securities that were eligible to participate in the 2005 debt exchange (other than brady bonds) to exchange such debt for new securities and, in certain cases, a cash payment. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers, Argentina restructured over 91% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. The creditors who did not participate in the 2005 or 2010 exchange offers may continue their pursuit of a legal action against Argentina for the recovery of debt, which could adversely affect Argentina’s access to the international capital markets. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may limit Argentina’s ability to reenter the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims have resulted and may continue to result in judgments and awards against the Argentine government which, if not paid, could prevent Argentina from obtaining credit from multilateral organizations. Judgment creditors have sought and may continue to seek to attach or enjoin assets of Argentina. In addition, various creditors have organized themselves into associations to engage in lobbying and public relations concerning Argentina’s default on its public indebtedness. Such groups have over the years unsuccessfully urged passage of federal and New York state legislation directed at Argentina’s defaulted debt and aimed at limiting Argentina’s access to the U.S. capital markets. Although neither the United States Congress nor the New York state legislature has taken any significant steps towards adopting such legislation, we can make no assurance that the enactment of a new legislation or other political actions designed to limit Argentina’s access to capital markets will not take effect. Furthermore, in April 2010, a Court of New York granted an attachment over reserves of the Argentine Central Bank in the United States requested by creditors of Argentina on the theory that the Central Bank was its alter ego. On July 2011, an appeals court reversed that ruling, stating that the assets of the Central Bank were protected by law. Plaintiffs have petitioned the United States Supreme Court to review the appeals court decision and, as of the date of this annual report, the United States Supreme Court has turned down a petition by Argentina to reconsider a lower-court order requiring it to pay creditors upwards of $1.4 billion. In August, 2013 the U.S. 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals in New York ruled against Argentina in a separate issue in the same dispute. At the time, however, it put a stay on any action until the Supreme Court decided whether to hear the nation’s previously submitted petition; meanwhile, Argentina has appealed the August circuit-court ruling, and if that is rejected, the country could file a separate request to the Supreme Court. As a result of Argentina’s default and the events that have followed it, the Argentine government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Significant fluctuation in the value of the Peso may adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our financial performance. The devaluation of the Peso has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, initially led to very high inflation, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, such as utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences on our business. Moreover, it would likely result in a decline in the value of our common shares and the ADSs as measured in U.S. dollars. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the Peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar negatively impacts the financial condition of entities whose foreign currency denominated assets exceed their foreign currency-denominated liabilities, such as us. In addition, in the short term, a significant real appreciation of the Peso would adversely affect exports. This could have a negative effect on GDP growth and employment as well as reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, given its current heavy reliance on taxes on exports. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and our business. Certain measures that may be taken by the Argentine Government may adversely affect the Argentine economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations In November 2008, the Argentine Government enacted Law No. 26,425 which provided for the nationalization of the Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (the “AFJPs”) (See “The nationalization of Argentina’s pension funds has materially and adversely affected local capital markets”). More recently, the Argentine Government, has promoted a model of increase state participation in the economy through welfare programs, exchange and price control and the promotion of state owned companies. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine Government, such as expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, new taxation policies, changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade, investment, among others, will not have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, as a consequence, adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which would increase our operating costs. In the past, the Argentine government has passed laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to maintain minimum wage levels and provide specified benefits to employees and may do so again in the future. In the aftermath of the Argentine economic crisis, employers both in the public and private sectors have experienced significant pressure from their employees and labor organizations to increase wages and to provide additional employee benefits. Due to the high levels of inflation, the employees and labor organizations have begun again demanding significant wage increases. It is possible that the Argentine government could adopt measures mandating salary increases and/or the provision of additional employee benefits in the future. Any such measures could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 The nationalization of Argentina’s pension funds has materially and adversely affected local capital markets. Under Law No. 26,425, which was published in the Official Gazette in December 2008, the Argentine government transferred approximately Ps.94.4 billion (US$29.3 billion) in assets held by the country’s private Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (“AFJPs” per its Spanish acronym) to the social security agency (“ANSES”) managed by the National State. Law No. 26,425 was supplemented, among others, by Decree No. 2103/2008 which describes the composition of the fund (Fondo de Garantia de Sustentabilidad) to be managed by ANSES and the directions for the management thereof; in turn, Decree No. 2104/08 regulates the matters concerning the transfer to the Argentine government of the contributions and all the documentation of the members of the capitalization regime retroactive as of December 1, 2008. AFJPs were the largest participants in the country’s local capital markets, leading the group of institutional investors. With the nationalization of their assets, the dynamics of the local capital markets changed due to the decrease in their number, becoming a concentrated group. In addition, the government became a significant shareholder in many of the country’s publicly-held companies. Pursuant to current regulations, ANSES may exercise the voting rights corresponding to its respective shares, which could eventually result in uncertain consequences. The nationalization of the AFJP has adversely affected investors’ confidence in Argentina, which may impact our ability to undertake access to the capital market in the future. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. On June 2005, the government issued decree No. 616/2005, which established additional controls on capital inflow, including the requirement that, subject to limited exemptions, 30% of all funds remitted to Argentina remain deposited in a domestic financial institution for one year without earning any interest. On October 2011, new exchange controls measures that restrict foreign exchange inflows and outflows of capital have been implemented, among them it was established as a requirement for the repatriation of the direct investment of the non-resident (purchase of shares of local companies and real estate), the demonstration of the income of the currency and its settlement in the single free exchange market “Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios”. This measure increases the cost of obtaining foreign funds and limits access to such financing. The Argentine government may, in the future, impose additional controls on the foreign exchange market and on capital flows from and into Argentina, in response to capital flight or depreciation of the Peso. These restrictions may have a negative effect on the economy and on our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is constrained. For more information, please see Item 10 “Additional Information D. Exchange Controls”. Rural Land Law On December 22, 2011, the Argentinean Congress passed a new law in order to protect the ownership and sovereignty of certain rural areas of Argentina (the “Rural Land Law”). The Rural Land Law sets limits to the domain of rural land by foreign individuals or legal entities ("Foreign Persons"), setting a maximum allowable percentage of ownership for foreigners of 20% in the rural areas of Argentina. Additionally, only 30% of the aforementioned 20% may be held by Foreign Persons of the same nationality, and from the date of enactment of the Rural Land Act on, any foreign person may only own more than 1,000 hectares throughout Argentine territory. The Rural Land Law states that it will not affect any rights previously acquired by Foreign Persons. For the purposes of the Rural Land Law, the definition of Foreign Person includes Argentine companies in which a percentage higher than 51% of the outstanding capital stock is owned by foreign individuals or legal entities, or lower rates if the entity meets the proportions necessary to form the social will. The following also fall within the definition of Foreign Person (among others): (a) entities controlled by a percentage greater than 25% by a foreign company, or regardless of participation when such company holds enough votes to form the social will of that company; (b) companies that issued convertible notes, where a Foreign Person may exert over 25% of the voting power necessary to form the social will; (c) transfers for trusts whose beneficiaries are Foreign Persons in a percentage higher than 25%, (d) joint ventures, holding companies and any other legal persons present or in the future, and (e) foreign legal persons under public law. On February 29, 2012, Executive Branch Decree No. 274/12 was published regulating the Rural Land Law. The Decree established a deadline of 60 days to the provinces to report the total area of ​​their departments, municipalities or political divisions equivalent discriminating rural and urban land and rural properties owned by foreign individuals or legal entities. Additionally, provinces should report the complete list of foreign companies registered at their jurisdiction. The decree also provides that foreign holders must report their holdings within 180 days from the date of enactment of regulations in the National Register of Rural Land. Payment of dividends to non-residents has been limited in the past and may be limited again. Beginning in February 2002, the payment of dividends, irrespective of amount, outside Argentina required prior authorization from the Central Bank. On January 7, 2003, the Central Bank issued communication “A” 3859, which is still in force and pursuant to which there are no limitations on companies’ ability to purchase foreign currency and transfer it outside Argentina to pay dividends, provided that those dividends arise from net earnings corresponding to approved and audited financial statements. If similar restrictions are enacted by the Argentine government or the Central Bank in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our business. Even though, there is no legal restriction currently in effect in connection with the payment of dividends abroad, there has been some delays to access to the “Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios” in order to purchase foreign currency under this concept. Property values in Argentina could decline significantly. Property values are influenced by multiple factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that property values will increase. Many of the properties we own are located in Argentina. As a result, a reduction in the value of properties in Argentina could materially affect our business. 11 The stability of the Argentine banking system is uncertain. During 2001 and the first half of 2002, a significant amount of deposits were withdrawn from Argentine financial institutions largely due to the loss of confidence of depositors in the Argentine government’s ability to repay its debts, including its debts within the financial system, and to maintain Peso-U.S. dollar parity in the context of its solvency crisis. While the condition of the financial system has improved, adverse economic developments, even if not related to or attributable to the financial system, could result in deposits flowing out of the banks and into the foreign exchange market, as depositors seek to shield their financial assets from a new crisis. Any run on deposits could create liquidity or even solvency problems for financial institutions, resulting in a contraction of available credit. In the event of a future shock, such as the failure of one or more banks or a crisis in depositor confidence, the Argentine government could impose further exchange controls or transfer restrictions and take other measures that could lead to renewed political and social tensions and undermine the Argentine government’s public finances, which could adversely affect Argentina’s economy and prospects for economic growth which could adversely affect our business. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into other countries, including. Lower capital inflows and declining securities prices negatively affect the real economy of a country through higher interest rates or currency volatility. The Argentine economy economy remains vulnerable to external shocks, including those related or similar to the global economic crisis that began in 2008 and the recent uncertainties surrounding European sovereign debt. For example, the recent challenges faced by the European Union to stabilize certain of its member economies, such as Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have had international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets, which has hindered economies worldwide. Should measures taken by the European Union be insufficient to restore confidence and stability to the financial markets, any recovery of the global economy, including the U.S. and European Union economies, could be hindered or reversed, which could negatively affect the Argentine economy, and in turn our business and results of operations. In addition, Argentina is also affected by the economic conditions of major trade partners, such as Brazil and/or countries that have influence over world economic cycles, such as the United States and China; if developing countries, such as Brazil and China, which are also Argentina’s trade partners, fall into a recession the Argentine economy would be affected by a decrease in exports. All of these factors would have a negative impact on us, our business, operations, financial condition and prospects. The impact of the aforementioned situations on Argentina could imply in a reduction in the exports and foreign direct investment, and a decline in the national tax revenues and the inability to access to the international capital markets, which could adversely affect our business and results of our operations. If prices for Argentina’s main commodity exports decline, such decline could have an adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth and on our business. Argentina’s economy has historically relied on the export of commodities, the prices of which have been volatile in the past and largely outside its control. High commodity prices have contributed significantly to government revenues from taxes on exports. Fluctuations in prices for commodities exported by Argentina and a significant increase in the value of the Peso (in real terms) may reduce Argentina’s competitiveness and significantly affect the country’s exports. A decrease in exports could affect Argentina’s economy, have a material adverse effect on public finances due to a loss of tax revenues cause an imbalance in the country’s exchange market which, in turn, could lead to increased volatility with respect to the exchange rate. In addition, and more importantly in the short term, a significant appreciation of the Peso could materially reduce the Argentine government’s revenues in real terms and affect its ability to make payments on its debt obligations, as these revenues are heavily derived from export taxes (withholdings). This could worsen the financial condition of the Argentine public sector, which could adversely affect the Argentine economy, as well as our financial condition and operating results. Restrictions on the supply of energy could negatively affect Argentina’s economy. As a result of prolonged recession, and the forced conversion into Pesos and subsequent freeze of gas and electricity tariffs in Argentina, there has been a lack of investment in gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. At the same time, demand for natural gas and electricity has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and price constraints, which has prompted the government to adopt a series of measures that have resulted in industry shortages and/or costs increase. The federal government has been taking a number of measures to alleviate the short-term impact of energy shortages on residential and industrial users. If these measures prove to be insufficient, or if the investment that is required to increase natural gas production and transportation capacity and energy generation and transportation capacity over the medium-and long-term fails to materialize on a timely basis, economic activity in Argentina could be curtailed which may have a significant adverse effect on our business. As a first step of these measures, subsidies on energy tariffs are being withdrawn to industries and high income consumers. As a result, our operating costs may increase. 12 Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised and continues to exercise influence over the Brazilian economy, which together with Brazil’s historically volatile political and economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent to a large extent on the economic conditions in Brazil. As of June 30, 2011 we consolidated our financial statements with our subsidiary Brasilagro-Companhia Brasileira de Propiedades Agricolas (“Brasilagro”). Historically, the Brazilian government has changed monetary, credit, tariff, and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. Such government actions have included increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, as well as other measures such as imposing exchange controls and limits on imports and exports. Our operations in Brazil may be adversely affected by changes in public policy at federal, state and municipal levels with respect to public tariffs and exchange controls, as well as other factors, such as: • fluctuation in exchange rates in Brazil; • monetary policy; • exchange controls and restrictions on remittances outside Brazil, such as those which were imposed on such remittances (including dividends) in 1989 and early 1990; • inflation in Brazil; • interest rates; • liquidity of the Brazilian financial, capital and lending markets; • fiscal policy and tax regime in Brazil; and • other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Actions of the Brazilian government in the future could have a significant effect on economic conditions in Brazil, which could adversely affect private sector companies such as our subsidiary Brasilagro, and thus, could adversely affect us. Although inflation in Brazil has stabilized in the past years, an increase in inflation could adversely affect the operations of Brasilagro which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Brazil has experienced high and generally unpredictable rates of inflation in the past. Inflation itself, as well as governmental policies to combat inflation, has had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy in general. Inflation, government efforts to control inflation and public speculation about future governmental actions have had, and can be expected to continue to have, significant impact on the Brazilian economy and on our operations in Brazil. As measured by the Brazilian Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor (National Consumer Price Index), or INPC, inflation in Brazil was 6.5%, 4.1%, 6.5%, 6,1% and 6.2% in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. For the six month period ended June 30, 2013 the inflation in Brazil was 3.3%. We cannot assure you that levels of inflation in Brazil will not increase in future years having a material adverse effect on our business, on the financial condition or, the results of operations. Inflationary pressures may lead to government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect the results of operations of Brasilagro. The Brazilian real is subject to depreciation and exchange rate volatility which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Brazil’s rate of inflation and the government’s actions to combat inflation have also affected the exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar. As a result of inflationary pressures, the Brazilian currency has been devalued periodically during the last four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian federal government has implemented various economic plans and utilized a number of exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic devaluations (during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly), floating exchange rate systems, exchange controls and dual exchange rate markets. During 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 the real appreciated (30.1%), 24.9% , 4.6%, (13.3%) and (9.63%), respectively, against the U.S. dollar. In the six months ended June 30, 2013, the real depreciated 9.09% against the U.S. dollar. There can be no assurance that the rate of exchange between the real and the U.S. dollar will not fluctuate significantly in the future. In the event of a devaluation of the real, the financial condition and results of operations of our Brazilian subsidiary could be adversely affected. Depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar may increase the cost of servicing foreign currency-denominated debt that our subsidiary may incur in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, depreciation of the real creates additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may adversely affect our results of operations. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and may prompt government intervention. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of Brasilagro’s revenues, distributions and dividends, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares. On the other hand, the appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to the deterioration of Brazil’s public accounts and balance of payments, as well as to lower economic growth from exports, which could impact the results of our subsidiary Brasilagro. The Brazilian government imposes certain restrictions on currency conversions and remittances abroad which could affect the timing and amount of any dividend or other payment we receive. Brazilian law guarantees foreign shareholders of Brazilian companies the right to repatriate their invested capital and to receive all dividends in foreign currency provided that their investment is registered with the Banco Central do Brazil, or the Brazilian Central Bank. We registered our investment in Brasilagro with the Brazilian Central Bank on April 28, 2006. Although dividend payments related to profits obtained subsequent to April 28, 2006 are not subject to income tax, if the sum of repatriated capital and invested capital exceeds the investment amount registered with the Brazilian Central Bank, repatriated capital is subject to a capital gains tax of 15%. There can be no assurance that the Brazilian government will not impose additional restrictions or modify existing regulations that would have an adverse effect on an investor’s ability to repatriate funds from Brazil nor can there be any assurance of the timing or duration of such restrictions, if imposed in the future. 13 Widespread uncertainties, corruption and fraud relating to ownership of real estate may adversely affect our business. There are widespread uncertainties, corruption and fraud relating to title ownership of real estate in Brazil. In Brazil, ownership of real property is conveyed through filing of deeds before the relevant land registry. In certain cases, land registry recording errors, including duplicate and/or fraudulent entries, and deed challenges frequently occur, leading to judicial actions. Property disputes over title ownership are frequent, and, as a result, there is a risk that errors, fraud or challenges could adversely affect us, causing the loss of all or substantially all of our properties. In addition, our land may be subject to expropriation by the Brazilian government. An expropriation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, social movements, such as Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra and Comissão Pastoral da Terra, are active in Brazil. Such movements advocate land reform and mandatory property redistribution by the government. Land invasions and occupations of rural areas by a large number of individuals is common practice for these movements, and, in certain areas, including some of those in which we are likely to invest, police protection and effective eviction proceedings are not available to land owners. As a result, we cannot give you any assurance that our properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by these groups. A land invasion or occupation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on us or the value of our common shares or ADRs. The lack of efficient transportation, and adequate storage or handling facilities in certain of the regions in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business. One of the principal disadvantages of the agriculture industry in some of the regions where we operate is that they are located a long distance from major ports in some cases, nearly 1,500 kilometers. Efficient access to transportation infrastructure and ports is critical to the profitability in the agricultural industry. Furthermore, as part of our business strategy, we intend to acquire and develop land in specific areas where existing transportation is poor. A substantial portion of agricultural production in certain of the regions where we operate is currently transported by truck, a means of transportation significantly more expensive than the rail transportation available to the U.S. and other international producers. As a result, we may be unable to obtain efficient transportation to make our production reach our most important markets in a cost-effective manner, if at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. Risks Relating to Our Region Our business is dependent on economic conditions in the countries where we operate or intend to operate. We made investments in farmland in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Bolivia and we may possibly make investments in other countries in and outside Latin America. Because demand for livestock and agricultural products usually is correlated to economic conditions prevailing in the local market, which in turn is dependent on the macroeconomic condition of the country in which the market is located, our financial condition and results of operations are, to a considerable extent, dependent upon political and economic conditions prevailing from time to time in the countries where we operate. Latin American countries have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and economic instability. Certain countries have experienced severe economic crises, which may still have future effects. As a result, governments may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster growth. Any of these adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past year, the world’s economy experienced the effects of the crisis that unfolded in mid-2008 as a result of the disruption of the United States’ subprime mortgage market. Though there has been some recovery, an interruption of such recovery may have an impact on the economic conditions difficult to predict. Triggering a less favorable or an unfavorable international environment for the countries where we operate or intend to operate, forcing domestic policy adjustments, which could cause adverse economic conditions and adversely affect our business. We face the risk of political and economic crises, instability, terrorism, civil strife, expropriation and other risks of doing business in emerging markets. In addition to Argentina and Brazil, we conduct or intend to conduct our operations in other Latin-American countries. Economic and political developments in the countries in which we operate, including future economic changes or crises (such as inflation or recession), government deadlock, political instability, terrorism, civil strife, changes in laws and regulations, expropriation or nationalization of property, and exchange controls could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although economic conditions in one country may differ significantly from another country, we cannot assure that events in one country alone will not adversely affect our business or the market value of, or market for, our common shares and/or our ADSs . Governments in the countries where we operate or intend to operate exercise significant influence over their economies. Emerging market governments, including governments in the countries where we operate, frequently intervene in the economies of their respective countries and occasionally make significant changes in policy and regulations. Governmental actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected by changes in government policies or regulations, including factors, such as: • exchange rates and exchange control policies; • inflation rates; • interest rates; • tariff and inflation control policies; • import duties on information technology equipment; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • electricity rationing; • tax policies; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting the countries where we intend to operate. 14 an eventual reduction of foreign investment in any of the countries where we operate may have a negative impact on such country’s economy, affecting interest rates and the ability of companies to access financial markets. Local currencies used in the conduct of our business are subject to exchange rate volatility and exchange controls. The currencies of many countries in Latin America have experienced substantial volatility in recent years. Currency movements, as well as higher interest rates, have materially and adversely affected the economies of many Latin American countries, including countries in which account for or are expected to account for a significant portion of our revenues. The depreciation of local currencies creates inflationary pressures that may have an adverse effect on us generally, and may restrict access to international capital markets. On the other hand, the appreciation of local currencies against the U.S. dollar may lead to deterioration in the balance of payments of the countries where we operate, as well as to a lower economic growth. In addition, we may be subject to exchange control regulations in these Latin American countries which might restrict our ability to convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. Inflation and certain government measures to curb inflation may have adverse effects on the economies of the countries where we operate or intend to operate our business and our operations. Most countries where we operate or intend to operate have historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some measures implemented to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the economies of Latin American countries. Governmental actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty at times in most Latin American countries. The countries where we operate or intend to operate may experience high levels of inflation in the future that could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of these countries experience high rates of inflation, we may not be able to adjust the price of our services sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structures. A high inflation environment would also have negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Developments in other markets may affect the Latin American countries where we operate or intend to operate, and as a result our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The market value of securities of companies such as us may be, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Latin American countries. Various Latin American economies have been adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in recent times. Furthermore, Latin American economies may be affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy and adversely affect our activities and the results of our operations. Land in Latin American countries may be subject to expropriation or occupation. Our land may be subject to expropriation by the governments of the countries where we operate and intend to operate. An expropriation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, social movements, such as Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra and Comissão Pastoral da Terra in Brazil, are active in certain of the countries where we operate or intend to operate. Such movements advocate land reform and mandatory property redistribution by governments. Land invasions and occupations of rural areas by a large number of individuals is common practice for these movements, and, in certain areas, including some of those in which we are likely to invest, police protection and effective eviction proceedings are not available to land owners. As a result, we cannot give you any assurance that our properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by these groups. A land invasion or occupation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on us or the value of our common shares and/or our ADSs. We may invest in countries other than Argentina and Brazil and cannot give you any assurance as to the countries in which we will ultimately invest, and we could fail to list all risk factors for each possible country. We have a broad and opportunistic business strategy and you should understand that we may invest in countries other than Argentina and Brazil including countries in other emerging markets outside Latin America such as Africa. As a result, it is not possible at this time to identify all risk factors that may affect our future operations and the value of our common shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to Our Business Fluctuation in market prices for our agriculture products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for cereals, oilseeds and by-products, like those of other commodities, can be expected to fluctuate significantly. The prices that we are able to obtain for our agriculture products depend on many factors beyond our control, including: • prevailing world prices, which historically have been subject to significant fluctuations over relatively short periods of time, depending on worldwide demand and supply; • changes in the agricultural subsidy levels in certain important countries (mainly the United States and countries in the European Union) and the adoption of other government policies affecting industry market conditions and prices; and • demand for and supply of competing commodities and substitutes. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if the prices of grains and by-products decline. 15 Unpredictable weather conditions may have an adverse impact on our crop and beef cattle production. The occurrence of severe adverse weather conditions, especially droughts, hail, or floods, is unpredictable and may have a potentially devastating impact upon our crop production and, to a lesser extent, our beef cattle and wool production. The occurrence of severe adverse weather conditions may reduce yields on our farmlands or require us to increase our level of investment to maintain yields. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) estimates, Argentina’s crops output (wheat, corn and soybean) for the 2013/2014 season are expected to be slightly better than in the previous cycle. They forecast not only an increase in the sown area in the case of soybean and wheat (corn shows a slightly fall due to higher costs), but a general increase in the expected yields in comparison with the previous campaign. The estimated production of soybean is supposed to reach 53.5 million tons, the wheat production 12 million tons and the corn production 27 million tons. However, we cannot assure you that the present and future severe adverse weather conditions will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Disease may strike our crops without warning potentially destroying some or all of our yields. The occurrence and effect of crop disease and pestilence can be unpredictable and devastating to crops, potentially destroying all or a substantial portion of the affected harvests. Even when only a portion of the crop is damaged, our results of operations could be adversely affected because all or a substantial portion of the production costs for the entire crop have been incurred. Although some crop diseases are treatable, the cost of treatment is high, and we cannot assure that such events in the future will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our beef cattle are subject to diseases. Diseases among our beef cattle herds, such as tuberculosis, brucellosis and foot-and-mouth disease, can have an adverse effect on milk production and fattening, rendering cows unable to produce milk or meat for human consumption. Outbreaks of beef cattle diseases may also result in the closure of certain important markets, such as the United States, to our beef cattle products. Although we abide by national veterinary health guidelines, which include laboratory analyses and vaccination, to control diseases among the herds, especially foot-and-mouth disease, we cannot assure that future outbreaks of beef cattle diseases will not occur. A future outbreak of diseases among our beef cattle herds may adversely affect our beef cattle and milk sales which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may be exposed to material losses due to volatile crop prices since a significant portion of our production is not hedged, and exposed to crop price risk. Due to the fact that we do not have all of our crops hedged, we are unable to have minimum price guarantees for all of our production and are therefore exposed to significant risks associated with the level and volatility of crop prices. We are subject to fluctuations in crop prices which could result in receiving a lower price for our crops than our production cost. We are also subject to exchange rate risks related to our crops that are hedged, because our futures and options positions are valued in U.S. dollars, and thus are subject to exchange rate risk. In addition, if severe weather or any other disaster generates a lower crop production than the position already sold in the market, we may suffer material losses in the repurchase of the sold contracts. The creation of new export taxes may have an adverse impact on our sales. In order to prevent inflation and variations in the exchange rate from adversely affecting prices of primary and manufactured products (including agricultural products), and to increase tax collections and reduce Argentina’s fiscal deficit, the Argentine government has imposed new taxes on exports. Pursuant to Resolution No. 11/02 of the Ministry of Economy and Production, as amended by Resolution 35/02, 160/2002, 307/2002 and 530/2002, effective as of March 5, 2002, the Argentine government imposed a 20%, 10% and 5% export tax on primary and manufactured products. On November 12, 2005, pursuant to Resolution No. 653/2005, the Ministry of Economy and Production increased the tax on beef cattle exports from 5% to 10%, and on January 2007 increased the tax on soybean exports from 23.5% to 27.5%. Pursuant to Resolutions No. 368/07 and 369/07 both dated November 12, 2007, the Ministry of Economy and Production further increased the tax on soybean exports from 27.5% to 35.0% and also the tax on wheat and corn exports from 20.0% to 28.0% and from 20.0% to 25.0%, respectively. In early March 2008, the Argentine government introduced a regime of sliding –scale export tariffs for oilseed, grains and by-products, where the withholding rate (in percentage) would increase to the same extent as the crops’ price. Therefore, it imposed an average tax for soybean exports of 46%, compared to the previous fixed rate of 35%. In addition, the tax on exports of wheat was increased, from a fixed rate of 28% to an average variable rate of 38%, and the tax on exports of corn changed from a fixed rate of 25% to an average variable rate of 36%. This tariff regime, which according to farmers effectively sets a maximum price for their crops, sparked widespread strikes and protests by farmers whose exports have been one of the principal driving forces behind Argentina’s recent growth. In April 2008, as a result of the export tariff regime, farmers staged a 21-day strike in which, among other things, roadblocks were set up throughout the country, triggering Argentina’s most significant political crisis in five years. These protests disrupted transport and economic activity, which led to food shortages, a surge in inflation and a drop in export registrations. Finally, the federal executive branch decided to send the new regime of sliding-scale export tariffs to the federal congress for its approval. The project was approved in the House of Representatives but rejected by the Senate. Subsequently, the federal government abrogated the regime of sliding-scale export tariffs and reinstated the previous scheme of fixed withholdings. Export taxes might have a material and adverse effect on our sales. We produce exportable goods and, therefore, an increase in export taxes is likely to result in a decrease in our products’ price, and, therefore, may result in a decrease of our sales. We cannot guarantee the impact of those or any other future measures that might be adopted by the Argentine government on our financial condition and result of operations. The international credit crisis could have a negative impact on our major customers which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The international credit crisis had a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Although we believe that available borrowing capacity under the current conditions and proceeds resulting from potential farmland sales will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current economic environment, the impact of the crisis on our major customers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a reduction in 16 their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Government intervention in our markets may have a direct impact on our prices. The Argentine government has set certain industry market conditions and prices in the past. In order to prevent a substantial increase in the price of basic products as a result of inflation, the Argentine government is adopting an interventionist policy. In March 2002, the Argentine government fixed the price for milk after a conflict among producers and the government. Since 2005, the Argentine government, in order to increase the domestic availability of beef and reduce domestic prices, adopted several measures: it increased turnover tax and established a minimum average number of animals to be slaughtered. In March 2006, the registries for beef exports were temporarily suspended. This last measure was softened once prices decreased. There can be no assurance that the Argentine government will not interfere in other areas by setting prices or regulating other market conditions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to freely negotiate all our products’ prices in the future or that the prices or other market conditions that the Argentine government could impose will allow us to freely negotiate the price of our products. We do not maintain insurance over all of our crop storage facilities; therefore, if a fire or other disaster damages some or all of our harvest, we will not be completely covered. We store a significant portion of our grain production during harvest due to the seasonal drop in prices that normally occurs at that time. Currently, we store a significant portion of our grain production in plastic silos. We do not maintain insurance on our plastic silos. Although our plastic silos are placed in several different locations, and it is unlikely that a natural disaster affects all of our plastic silos simultaneously, a fire or other natural disaster which damages the stored grain, particularly if such event occurs shortly after harvesting, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Worldwide competition in the markets for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We experience substantial worldwide competition in each of our markets and in many of our product lines. The market for cereals, oil seeds and by-products is highly competitive and also sensitive to changes in industry capacity, producer inventories and cyclical changes in the world’s economies, any of which may significantly affect the selling prices of our products and thereby our profitability. Argentina is more competitive in the oilseed market than in the market for cereals. Due to the fact that many of our products are agricultural commodities, they compete in the international markets almost exclusively on the basis of price. Many other producers of these products are larger than us, and have greater financial and other resources. Moreover, many other producers receive subsidies from their respective countries while we do not receive any such subsidies from the Argentine government. These subsidies may allow producers from other countries to produce at lower costs than us and/or endure periods of low prices and operating losses for longer periods than we can. Any increased competitive pressure with respect to our products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with our customers, particularly with the single customer who purchases our entire raw milk production each month, our business may be adversely affected. Though our beef cattle sales are diversified, we are and will continue to be significantly dependent on a number of third party relationships, mainly with our customers for crop and milk sales. In the fiscal year 2013, we sold our products to approximately 400 customers. Sales of agricultural products to our ten largest customers represented approximately 77% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. Our biggest three customers are Bunge Alimentos S.A., Green Ethanol and Molinos Río de la Plata S.A., represented, in the aggregate, approximately 41% of our net sales in agricultural products, while the remaining seven customers in the aggregate represented approximately 59% of our net sales in the fiscal year 2013. In addition, we currently sell our entire raw milk production to one customer in Argentina, Mastellone Hnos. S.A. For the year ended June 30, 2013, these sales represented approximately 3.4% of our agricultural business revenues. There can be no assurance that this customer will continue to purchase our entire raw milk production or that, if it fails to do so, we could enter into satisfactory sale arrangements with new purchasers in the future. We sell our crop production mainly to exporters and manufacturers that process the raw materials to produce meal and oil, products that are sent to the export markets. The Argentine crop market is characterized by a few purchasers and a great number of sellers. Although most of the purchasers are international companies with strong financial conditions, we cannot assure you that this situation will remain the same in the future or that this market will not get more concentrated in the future. We may not be able to maintain or form new relationships with customers or others who provide products and services that are important to our business. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our existing or prospective relationships will result in sustained business or the generation of significant revenues. Our business is seasonal, and our revenues may fluctuate significantly depending on the growing cycle. Our agricultural business is highly seasonal in nature. The harvest and sale of crops (corn, soybean and sunflower) generally occurs from February to June. Wheat is harvested from December to January. Our operations and sales are affected by the growing cycle of the crops we process and by decreases during the summer in the price of the beef cattle we fatten. As a result, our results of operations have varied significantly from period to period, and are likely to continue to vary, due to seasonal factors. The restrictions imposed on our subsidiaries’ dividend payments might adversely affect us. We have subsidiaries, and therefore, dividends in cash and other permitted payments of our subsidiaries constitute a major source of our income. The debt agreements of our subsidiaries contain covenants that restrict their ability to pay dividends or proceed with other types of distributions. If our subsidiaries are prevented from making payments to our company or if they are only allowed to pay limited amounts, we will be unable to pay dividends or to repay our indebtedness. 17 Our principal shareholder has the ability to direct our business and affairs, and its interests could conflict with ours. As of June 30, 2013, Mr. Eduardo S. Elsztain, was the beneficial owner of 39.30% (on a fully diluted basis) of our common shares. As a result of his significant influence over us, Mr. Elsztain, by virtue of his position in IFISA, has been able to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, direct our management and determine the result of substantially all resolutions that require shareholders’ approval, including fundamental corporate transactions and our payment of dividends by us. The interests of our principal shareholder and management may differ from, and could conflict with, those of our other shareholders. Pursuant to a consulting agreement we pay a management fee equal to 10% of our annual net income to Consultores Asset Management S.A., formerly known as Dolphin Fund Management S.A. (“Consultores Asset Management”), a company whose capital stock is 85% owned by Eduardo Elsztain and 15% owned by Saúl Zang, the first vice-chairman of our board of directors. This performance based fee could be viewed as an incentive for Consultores Asset Management to favor riskier or more speculative investments than would otherwise be the case. In addition, as of June 30, 2013 Mr. Elsztain was the beneficial owner, due to his indirect shareholding through us of 66.1% of the common shares of IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones Sociedad Anónima ("IRSA"), an Argentine company that currently owns approximately 95.7% of the common shares of its subsidiary Alto Palermo Sociedad Anónima (APSA) (“Alto Palermo” or “APSA”) whose chief executive officer is Mr. Alejandro G. Elsztain, Mr. Eduardo Elsztain’s brother and our chief executive officer. We cannot assure you that our principal shareholders will not cause us to forego business opportunities that their affiliates may pursue or to pursue other opportunities that may not be in our interest, all of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common shares and the ADSs. We could be adversely affected by our investment in IRSA if its value declines. Our investment in IRSA is exposed to the common risks generally inherent in investments in commercial and residential properties, many of which are outside IRSA’s control. Any of these risks could adversely and materially affect IRSA’s businesses, financial position and/or results of operations. Any available returns on capital expenditures associated with real estate are dependent upon sales volumes and/or revenues from leases and the expenses incurred. Besides, there are other factors that may adversely affect the performance and the value of a property, including the local economic conditions prevailing in the area where the property is located, macroeconomic conditions in Argentina and in the rest of the world, competition from other companies engaged in real estate development, IRSA’s ability to find lessees, non-performance by lessees and/or lease terminations, changes in legislation and in governmental regulations (including those governing the use of the properties, urban planning and real estate taxes), variations in interest rates (including the risk of an increase in interest rates causing a reduction in the sales of lots in properties intended for residential development) and the availability of funding. In addition, and given the relative illiquidity of the real estate market, IRSA could be unable to effectively respond to adverse market conditions and/or be compelled to undersell one or more of its properties. Broadly speaking, some significant expenses, such as debt services, real estate taxes and operating and maintenance costs do not fall when there are circumstances that reduce the revenues from an investment. These factors and/or events could impair IRSA’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the returns on its investments thus causing a significant reduction in its financial position and/or the results of its operations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position and the results of our operations. We could be materially and adversely affected by our investment in Brasilagro. We consolidated our financial statements with our subsidiary Brasilagro. Brasilagro was formed on September 23, 2005 to exploit opportunities in the Brazilian agricultural sector. Brasilagro seeks to acquire and develop future properties to produce a diversified range of agricultural products (which may include sugarcane, grains, cotton, forestry products and livestock). Brasilagro is a startup company that has been operating since 2006. As a result, it has a developing business strategy and limited track record. Brasilagro’s business strategy may not be successful, and if not successful, Brasilagro may be unable to successfully modify its strategy. Brasilagro’s ability to implement its proposed business strategy may be materially and adversely affected by many known and unknown factors. If we were to write-off our investments in Brasilagro, this would likely materially and adversely affect our business. As of June 30, 2013, we owned 39.64% of the outstanding common shares of Brasilagro. We may be subject to extensive environmental regulation. Our activities are subject to a wide set of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which impose various environmental obligations. Obligations include compulsory maintenance of certain preserved areas in our properties, management of pesticides and associated hazardous waste and the acquisition of permits for water use. Our proposed business is likely to involve the handling and use of hazardous materials that may cause the emission of certain regulated substances. In addition, the storage and processing of our products may create hazardous conditions. We could be exposed to criminal and administrative penalties, in addition to the obligation to remedy the adverse effects of our operations on the environment and to indemnify third parties for damages, including the payment of penalties for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Since environmental laws and their enforcement are becoming more stringent in Argentina, our capital expenditures and expenses for environmental compliance may substantially increase in the future. In addition, due to the possibility of future regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of environmental-related capital expenditures and expenses may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. The cost of compliance with environmental regulation may result in reductions of other strategic investments which may consequently decrease our profits. Any material unforeseen environmental costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. As of June 30, 2013, we owned land reserves extending over more than 357,505 hectares that were purchased at very attractive prices. In addition, we have a concession over 112,747 hectares reserved for future development. We believe that there are technological tools available to improve productivity in these farmlands and, therefore, achieve appreciation in the long term. However, current or future environmental regulations could prevent us from fully developing our land reserves by requiring that we maintain part of this land as natural woodlands not to be used for production purposes. Increased energy prices and fuel shortages could adversely affect our operations. We require substantial amounts of fuel oil and other resources for our harvest activities and transport of our agricultural products. We rely upon third parties for our supply of the energy resources consumed in our operations. The prices for and availability of energy resources may be subject to change or curtailment, respectively, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, worldwide price levels and market conditions. The prices of various sources of energy may increase significantly from current levels. An increase in energy prices could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 We depend on our chairman and senior management. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued employment of Eduardo S. Elsztain, our president and chairman of the board of directors, and Alejandro G. Elsztain, our chief executive officer. The loss of their services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our current principal shareholders were to lose their influence on the management of our business, our principal executive officers could resign or be removed from office. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, or that any of our personnel will remain employed by us. The Investment Company Act may limit our future activities. Under Section 3(a)(3) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, an investment company is defined in relevant part to include any company that owns or proposes to acquire investment securities that have a value exceeding 40% of such company’s unconsolidated total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items). Investments in minority interests of related entities as well as majority interests in consolidated subsidiaries which themselves are investment companies are included within the definition of “investment securities” for purposes of the 40% limit under the Investment Company Act. Companies that are investment companies within the meaning of the Investment Company Act, and that do not qualify for an exemption from the provisions of such Act, are required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are subject to substantial regulations with respect to capital structure, operations, transactions with affiliates and other matters. In the event such companies do not register under the Investment Company Act, they may not, among other things, conduct public offerings of their securities in the United States or engage in interstate commerce in the United States. Moreover, even if we desired to register with the Commission as an investment company, we could not do so without an order of the Commission because we are a non-U.S. corporation, and it is unlikely that the Commission would issue such an order. In recent years we made a significant minority investment in the capital stock of IRSA, an Argentine company engaged in a range of real estate activities. As of June 30, 2013, we owned approximately 65.45% of IRSA’s outstanding shares. Although we believe we are not an “investment company” for purposes of the Investment Company Act, our belief is subject to substantial uncertainty, and we cannot give you any assurance that we would not be determined to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. As a result, the uncertainty regarding our status under the Investment Company Act may adversely affect our ability to offer and sell securities in the United States or to U.S. persons. The United States capital markets have historically been an important source of funding for us, and our future financing ability may be adversely affected by a lack of access to the United States capital markets. If an exemption under the Investment Company Act is unavailable to us in the future and we desire to access the U.S. capital markets, our only recourse would be to file an application to the SEC for an exemption from the provisions of the Investment Company Act which is a lengthy and highly uncertain process. Moreover, if we offer and sell securities in the United States or to U.S. persons and we were deemed to be an investment company and not exempted from the application of the Investment Company Act, contracts we enter into in violation of, or whose performance entails a violation of, the Investment Company Act, including any such securities, may not be enforceable against us. We hold Argentine securities which might be more volatile than U.S. securities and carry a greater risk of default. We currently have and in the past have had certain investments in Argentine government debt, corporate debt, and equity securities. In particular, we hold a significant interest in IRSA, an Argentine company that has suffered material losses, particularly during the fiscal years 2001 and 2002. Although our holding of these investments, excluding IRSA, tends to be short term, investments in such securities involve certain risks, including: • market volatility, higher than those typically associated with U.S. government and corporate securities; and • loss of principal. Some of the issuers in which we have invested and may invest, including the Argentine government, have in the past experienced substantial difficulties in servicing their debt obligations, which have led to the restructuring of certain indebtedness. We cannot assure that the issuers in which we have invested or may invest will not be subject to similar or other difficulties in the future which may adversely affect the value of our investments in such issuers. In addition, such issuers and, therefore, such investments, are generally subject to many of the risks that are described in this section with respect to us, and, thus, could have little or no value. Risks relating to our investment in IRSA. IRSA’s performance is subject to risks associated with its properties and with the real estate industry. IRSA’s economic performance and the value of their real estate assets, and consequently the value of the securities issued by them, are subject to the risk that if IRSA’s properties do not generate sufficient revenues to meet its operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, their ability to pay distributions to their shareholders and our cash flow will be adversely affected. Events or conditions beyond IRSA’s control that may adversely affect its operations or the value of its properties include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; • volatility and decline in discretionary spending; • competition from other shopping centers and office, industrial and commercial buildings; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for office, or other commercial or industrial space; 19 • decreases in consumption levels; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; • the exercise by IRSA’s tenants of its legal right to early termination of its leases; • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; • increased operating costs, including insurance expense, salary increases, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; • declines in the financial condition of its tenants and its ability to collect rents from its tenants; • changes in its ability or its tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, possibly decreasing the useful life of and revenue from property; and • changes in law or governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes) or government action such as expropriation or confiscation. If any one or more of the foregoing conditions were to affect IRSA’s business, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. IRSA’s investment in property development, redevelopment and construction may be less profitable than we anticipate. IRSA is engaged in the development and construction of office space, retail and residential properties, shopping centers and residential apartment complexes, frequently through third-party contractors. Risks associated with our development, re-development and construction activities include the following, among others: • abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; • construction costs of a project may exceed IRSA’s original estimates for reasons including raises in interest rates or increases in the costs of materials and labor, making a project unprofitable; • occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on our investment; • pre-construction buyers may default on its purchase contracts or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; • the unavailability of favorable financing alternatives in the private and public debt markets; • sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; • construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; • impossibility to obtain, delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or building moratoria and anti-growth legislation; • significant time lags between the commencement and completion of projects subjects IRSA to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy; • construction may not be completed on schedule because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters (such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes or floods), resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; 20 • • general changes in IRSA’s tenants’ demand for rental properties outside of the city of Buenos Aires; and IRSA may incur capital expenditures that could result in considerable time consuming efforts and which may never be completed due to government restrictions. In addition, IRSA may face contractors’ claims for the enforcement of labor laws in Argentina (sections 30, 31 and 32 under Law No. 20,744), which provide for joint and several liability. Many companies in Argentina hire personnel from third-party companies that provide outsourced services, and sign indemnity agreements in the event of labor claims from employees of such third company that may affect the liability of such hiring company. However, in recent years, several court rulings have denied the existence of independence in those labor relationships and declared joint and several liabilities for both companies. While IRSA’s policies with respect to expansion, renovation and development activities are intended to limit some of the risks otherwise associated with such activities, IRSA is nevertheless subject to risks associated with the construction of properties, such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of its control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and harm its operating results. The real estate industry in Argentina is increasingly competitive. IRSA’s real estate and construction activities are highly concentrated in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area, where the real estate market is highly competitive due to the scarcity of properties in sought-after locations and the increasing number of local and international competitors. Furthermore, the Argentine real estate industry is generally highly competitive and fragmented and does not have high barriers to entry restricting new competitors. The main competitive factors in the real estate development business include availability and location of land, price, funding, design, quality, reputation and partnerships with developers. A number of residential and commercial developers and real estate services companies compete with it in seeking land for acquisition, financial resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Other companies, including joint ventures of foreign and local companies, have become increasingly active in the real estate business in Argentina, further increasing this competition. To the extent that one or more of IRSA’s competitors are able to acquire and develop desirable properties, as a result of greater financial resources or otherwise, its business could be materially and adversely affected. If IRSA is not able to respond to such pressures as promptly as its competitors, or the level of competition increases, its financial condition and results of its operations could be adversely affected. In addition, many of IRSA’s shopping centers are located in close proximity to other shopping centers, numerous retail stores and residential properties. The number of comparable properties located in the vicinity of its property could have a material adverse effect on its ability to lease retail space at its shopping centers or sell units in its residential complexes and on the rent price or the sale price that IRSA is able to charge. IRSA cannot assure you that other shopping center operators, including international shopping center operators, will not invest in Argentina in the near future. As additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market, such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on IRSA’s results of operations. IRSA faces risks associated with property acquisitions. IRSA has in the past acquired, and intends to acquire, properties, including large properties (such as the acquisition of Edificio República, Abasto de Buenos Aires, or Alto Palermo Shopping) that would increase its size and potentially alter its capital structure. The success of their past and future acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the risk that: • IRSA may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms; • acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; • the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than its estimates; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where it may have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, absence of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and • IRSA may not be able to efficiently integrate acquired properties, particularly portfolios of properties, into its organization and to manage new properties in a way that allows it to realize cost savings and synergies. Some of the land IRSA has purchased is not zoned for development purposes, and it may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining the necessary zoning permits and other authorizations. IRSA owns several plots of land which are not zoned for the type of projects it intends to develop. In addition, IRSA does not yet have the required land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. IRSA cannot assure you that it will continue to be successful in its attempts to rezone land and to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations, or that rezoning efforts and permit requests will not be unreasonably delayed or rejected. Moreover, IRSA may be affected by building moratorium and anti-growth legislation. If it is unable to obtain all of the governmental permits and authorizations it needs to develop its present and future projects as planned, IRSA may be forced to make unwanted modifications to such projects or abandon them altogether. Acquired properties may subject IRSA to unknown liabilities. Properties that IRSA acquires may be subject to unknown liabilities for which it would have no recourse, or only limited recourse, to the former owners of such properties. As a result, if a liability were asserted against it based upon ownership of an acquired property, IRSA might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect its financial results and cash flow. Unknown liabilities relating to acquired properties could include: • liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; 21 • law reforms and governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes); and • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance, and certain kinds of insurance coverage may become prohibitively expensive. IRSA currently carries insurance policies that cover potential risks such as civil liability, fire, loss of profit, floods, including extended coverage and losses from leases on all of its properties. Although IRSA believes the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are generally customary, there are certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, terrorism and acts of war that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, IRSA could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, IRSA might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. IRSA cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt its operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Moreover, IRSA does not purchase life or disability insurance for any of our key employees. If any of its key employees were to die or become incapacitated, it would experience losses caused by a disruption in its operations which will not be covered by insurance, and this could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, IRSA cannot assure you that it will be able to renew its insurance coverage in an adequate amount or at reasonable prices. Insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. IRSA’s dependence on rental income may adversely affect its ability to meet its debt obligations. The substantial part of IRSA’s income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, IRSA’s performance depends on its ability to collect rent from its tenants. IRSA’s income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of its tenants or any of its major tenants (as discussed in more detail below): • delay lease commencements; • decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; • fail to make rental payments when due; or • close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants’ leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, IRSA cannot assure you that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations. Demand for IRSA’s premium properties which target the high-income demographic may be insufficient. IRSA has focused on development projects intended to cater to affluent individuals and has entered into property swap agreements pursuant to which IRSA contributes its undeveloped properties to ventures with developers who will deliver to its units in premium locations. At the time the developers return these properties to it, demand for premium residential units could be significantly lower. In such case, IRSA would be unable to sell these residential units at the estimated prices or in the time frame it estimated, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly and transfer restrictions apply to some of IRSA’s properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and this tends to limit its ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in the economy or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in income from a certain investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, IRSA’s business would be adversely affected. Some of its properties are mortgaged to secure payment of its indebtedness, and if IRSA is unable to meet its mortgage payments, it could lose money as a result of foreclosure on such mortgages and even lose such property. In addition, if it becomes necessary or desirable for it to dispose of one or more of the mortgaged properties, IRSA might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect its business. In the type of transactions of this kind, IRSA may also agree, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell the acquired properties for significant periods of time. An adverse economic environment for real estate companies and the credit crisis may adversely impact our results of operations and business prospects significantly. The success of IRSA’s business and profitability of its operations are dependent on continued investment in the real estate markets and access to capital and debt financing. A long term crisis of confidence in real estate investments and lack of available credit for acquisitions would be likely to constrain our business growth. As part of our business goals, IRSA intends to increase our properties portfolio with strategic acquisitions of core properties at advantageous prices, and core plus and value added properties where IRSA believes it can bring necessary expertise to enhance property values. In order to pursue acquisitions, IRSA may need access to equity capital and/or debt financing. Recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact IRSA’s ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the near future. Any consideration of sales of existing properties or portfolio interests may be tempered by decreasing property values. IRSA’s ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance its obligations with respect to indebtedness depends on its operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions. If a recurrence of the disruptions in financial markets presents itself in the future, there can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore investor confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. 22 IRSA’s level of debt may adversely affect its operations and its ability to pay its debt as it becomes due. IRSA had, and expects to continue to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance its business. As of June 30, 2013, IRSA’s consolidated financial debt was Ps. 3,695 million (including short-term and long-term debt, accrued interest and deferred financing costs). Although IRSA is generating sufficient funds from operating cash flows to satisfy its debt service requirements and its capacity to obtain new financing is adequate given the current availability of credit lines with the banks, IRSA cannot assure you that it will maintain such cash flow and adequate financial capacity in the future. The fact that we are leveraged may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, the recent disruptions in the global financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt and the availability and cost of credit in the future. In such conditions, access to equity and debt financing options may be restricted and it may be uncertain how long these circumstances last. This would require IRSA to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Its leverage could also affect its competitiveness and limit its ability to react to changes in market conditions, changes in the real estate industry and economic downturns. IRSA may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy its debt service requirements or to obtain future financing. If IRSA cannot satisfy its debt service requirements or if IRSA default on any financial or other covenants in its debt arrangements, the lenders and/or holders of its debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. IRSA’s ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon its future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond its control such as macroeconomic conditions (including the recent international credit crisis) and regulatory changes in Argentina. If it cannot obtain future financing, it may have to delay or abandon some or all of its planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect its ability to generate cash flows and repay its obligations. IRSA may be negatively affected by a financial crisis in the U.S., the European Union and global capital markets. IRSA must maintain liquidity to fund its working capital, service its outstanding indebtedness and finance investment opportunities. Without sufficient liquidity, IRSA could be forced to curtail its operations or may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption during the last credit crisis. If IRSA´s current resources do not satisfy IRSA´s liquidity requirements, IRSA may have to seek additional financing. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and IRSA´s credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of the prospects of IRSA or the industry generally. IRSA may not be able to successfully obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms. The recurrence of a credit crisis could have a negative impact on IRSA´s major customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect IRSA´s results of operations and liquidity. In recent years, the credit crisis had a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of a crisis on IRSA´s major tenants cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. A disruption on the ability of IRSA´s significant tenants to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of their products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations which could have a material adverse effect on IRSA´s results of operations and liquidity. Adverse incidents that occur in IRSA´s shopping centers may result in damage to IRSA´s image and a decrease in IRSA´s customers. Given that shopping centers are open to the public, with ample circulation of people, accidents, theft, robbery and other incidents may occur in IRSA´s facilities, regardless of the preventative measures which may be adopted. In the event such an incident or series of incidents occurs, shopping center customers and visitors may choose to visit other shopping venues that they believe are safer and less violent, which may cause a reduction in the sales volume and operating income of IRSA´s shopping centers. IRSA is subject to risks inherent to the operation of shopping centers that may affect its profitability. Shopping centers are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability. These factors include: • the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; • the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; • the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; • increasing competition from internet sales; • the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; • changes in consumer demand and availability of consumer credit, both of which are highly sensitive to general macroeconomic conditions; and • the fluctuations in occupancy levels in the shopping centers. An increase in operating costs, caused by inflation or other factors, could have a material adverse effect if IRSA´s tenants are unable to pay higher rent due to the increase in expenses. Moreover, the shopping center business is closely related to consumer spending and to the economy in which customers are located. All of IRSA´s shopping centers are in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business could be seriously affected by potential recession in Argentina. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, spending decreased significantly, unemployment, political instability and inflation significantly reduced consumer spending in Argentina, lowering tenants’ sales and forcing some tenants to leave IRSA´s shopping centers. If an international financial crisis has a substantial impact on economic activity in Argentina, it will likely have a material adverse effect on the revenues from the shopping center activity. The loss of significant tenants could adversely affect both the operating revenues and value of IRSA´s shopping center and other rental properties. If some of IRSA´s most important tenants were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, or if IRSA simply failed to retain their patronage, IRSA´s business could be adversely affected. IRSA´s shopping centers and, to a lesser extent, 23 IRSA´s office buildings are typically anchored by significant tenants, such as well-known department stores who generate shopping traffic at the mall. A decision by such significant tenants to cease operations at IRSA´s shopping centers or office buildings could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of the affected segment and, by extension, on IRSA´s financial condition and results of operations. The closing of one or more significant tenants may induce other major tenants at an affected property to terminate their leases, to seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the property. In addition, key tenants at one or more properties might terminate their leases as a result of mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies in the retail industry. The bankruptcy and/or closure of one or more significant tenants, if IRSA is not able to successfully re-lease the affected space, could have a material adverse effect on both the operating revenues and underlying value of the properties involved. IRSA´s future acquisitions may be unprofitable. IRSA intends to acquire additional shopping center properties to the extent that they will be acquired on advantageous terms and meet IRSA´s investment criteria. Acquisitions of commercial properties entail general investment risks associated with any real estate investment, including: • IRSA estimates of the cost of improvements needed to bring the property up to established standards for the market may prove to be inaccurate; • properties that IRSA acquires may fail to achieve within the time frames IRSA projects the occupancy or rental rates IRSA projects at the time IRSA makes the decision to acquire, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns IRSA projected; • IRSA´s pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs, which could significantly increase IRSA´s total acquisition costs; and • IRSA´s investigation of a property or building prior to its acquisition, and any representations that IRSA may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase IRSA´s acquisition cost. If IRSA acquires a business, IRSA will be required to integrate the operations, personnel and accounting and information systems of the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in IRSA´s operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair IRSA´s relationships with its current tenants and employees. IRSA´s ability to grow will be limited if they cannot obtain additional capital. IRSA´s growth strategy is focused on the redevelopment of properties IRSA already owns and the acquisition and development of additional properties. As a result, IRSA is likely to depend to an important degree on the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms. IRSA cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts IRSA desires or favorable terms. IRSA´s access to debt or equity capital markets depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of IRSA´s growth potential, IRSA´s ability to pay dividends, its financial condition, its credit rating and its current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors, IRSA could experience delay or difficulty in implementing its growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or be unable to implement this strategy. Serious illnesses and pandemics, such as the 2009 outbreak of Influenza A H1N1 virus, (the “Swine Flu”), have in the past adversely affected consumer and tourist activity, may do so in the future and may adversely affect IRSA´s results of operations. As a result of the outbreak of Swine Flu during the winter of 2009, consumers and tourists dramatically changed their spending and travel habits to avoid contact with crowds. Furthermore, several governments´ enacted regulations limiting the operation of schools, cinemas and shopping centers. Even though the Argentine government only issued public service recommendations to the population regarding the risks involved in visiting crowded places, such as shopping centers, and did not issue specific regulations limiting access to public places, a significant number of consumers nonetheless changed their habits vis-a-vis shopping centers and malls. IRSA cannot assure you that a new outbreak or health hazard will not occur in the future, or that such an outbreak or health hazard would not significantly affect consumer and/or tourist activity, and that such scenario would not adversely affect IRSA´s businesses. IRSA is subject to risks inherent to the operation of office buildings that may affect IRSA´s profitability. Office buildings are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability. IRSA´s profitability of its office buildings may be affected by: • a decrease in demand for office space; • a deterioration in the financial condition of IRSA´s tenants, which may result in defaults under leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity or for other reasons; • difficulties or delays renewing leases or re-leasing space; • decreases in rents as a result of oversupply, particularly of newer buildings; • competition from developers, owners and operators of office properties and other commercial real estate, including sublease space available from IRSA´s tenants; and • maintenance, repair and renovation costs incurred to maintain the competitiveness of IRSA´s office buildings. IRSA are subject to risks affecting the hotel industry. The full-service segment of the lodging industry in which IRSA´s hotels operate is highly competitive. The operational success of its hotels is highly dependent on its ability to compete in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations, rates, quality food and beverage facilities and other services and amenities. IRSA´s hotels may face additional competition if other companies decide to build new hotels or improve their existing hotels to increase their attractiveness. In addition, the profitability of IRSA´s hotels depends on: • IRSA´s ability to form successful relationships with international and local operators to run its hotels; • changes in tourism and travel patterns, including seasonal changes and changes due to pandemic outbreaks, such as the Swine Flu virus or weather phenomenon or other natural events, such as the eruption of the Puyehué volcano in June 2011; • affluence of tourists, which can be affected by a slowdown in global economy; and 24 • taxes and governmental regulations affecting wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures and costs. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on IRSA´s properties could subject to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on IRSA´s properties, tenants are required to indemnify and hold harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from IRSA´s negligence or intentional misconduct or that of its agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. In addition, IRSA cannot assure the holders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of IRSA´s invested capital, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. IRSA´s business is subject to extensive regulation and additional regulations may be imposed in the future. IRSA´s activities are subject to federal, state and municipal laws, and to regulations, authorizations and licenses required with respect to construction, zoning, use of the soil, environmental protection and historical patrimony, consumer protection and other requirements, all of which affect its ability to acquire land, buildings and shopping centers, develop and build projects and negotiate with customers. In addition, companies in this industry are subject to increasing tax rates, the creation of new taxes and changes in the taxation regime. IRSA is required to obtain licenses and authorizations with different governmental authorities in order to carry out IRSA´s projects. Maintaining IRSA´s licenses and authorizations can be a costly provision. In the case of non-compliance with such laws, regulations, licenses and authorizations, IRSA may face fines, project shutdowns, and cancellation of licenses and revocation of authorizations. In addition, public authorities may issue new and stricter standards, or enforce or construe existing laws and regulations in a more restrictive manner, which may force IRSA to make expenditures to comply with such new rules. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to potential delays in obtaining or an inability to obtain all necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Any delays or failures to obtain government approvals may have an adverse effect on IRSA´s business. In the past, the Argentine government imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficulties in accessing credit. Such regulations limited or prohibited increases on rental prices and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. Most of IRSA´s leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leased areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting IRSA´s rental income. IRSA cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership, operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market and the rental market and materially and adversely affect IRSA´s operations and profitability. Argentine Lease Law No. 23,091 imposes restrictions that limit IRSA´s flexibility. Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: • lease agreements may not contain inflation adjustment clauses based on consumer price indexes or wholesale price indexes. Although many of IRSA´s lease agreements contain readjustment clauses, these are not based on an official index nor do they reflect the inflation index. In the event of litigation these provisions may not be enforceable and therefore it may be impossible for IRSA to adjust the amounts owed to IRSA under its lease agreements; • residential leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of two years and retail leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of three years except in the case of stands and/or spaces for special exhibitions; • lease terms may not exceed ten years, except for leases regulated by Law No. 25,248 (which provides that leases containing a purchase option are not subject to term limitations); and • tenants may rescind commercial and office lease agreements after the initial six-month period. As a result of the foregoing, IRSA is exposed to the risk of increases of inflation under its leases and the exercise of rescission rights by IRSA´s tenants could materially and adversely affect its business, therefore IRSA cannot assure you that its tenants will not exercise such rights, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future or if economic conditions deteriorate. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming. Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special proceeding to evict tenants, eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time-consuming. Historically, the heavy workloads of the courts and the numerous procedural steps required have generally delayed landlords’ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally take between six months and two years from the date the suit is filed to the time of actual eviction. IRSA usually attempts to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants after the first few months of non-payment in order to avoid legal proceedings. Delinquency may increase significantly in the future, and such negotiations with tenants may not be as successful as they have been in the past. Moreover, new Argentine laws and regulations may forbid or restrict eviction proceedings, and in such case, they would likely have a material and adverse effect on IRSA´s financial condition and results of operation. IRSA is subject to great competitive pressure. IRSA´s principal properties are located in Argentina. There are other shopping centers and numerous smaller retail stores and residential properties within the market area of each of IRSA´s properties. The number of competing properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on IRSA´s ability to lease retail space at its shopping centers or sell units in its residential complexes and on the amount of rent or the sale price that IRSA is able to charge. To date, there have been relatively few companies competing with IRSA´s for shopping center properties. However, if additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market in the future, such competition could have a material adverse effect on IRSA´s results of operations. IRSA´s assets are concentrated in the Buenos Aires area. IRSA´s principal properties are located in the City of Buenos Aires and the Province of Buenos Aires and a substantial portion of its revenues are derived from such properties. For IRSA´s fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2013, approximately 81% and 83% of IRSA´s consolidated revenues were 25 derived from properties in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area including the City of Buenos Aires. Although IRSA owns properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside Buenos Aires, IRSA expects continued dependence to a large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas, and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on IRSA´s financial condition and results of operations. IRSA faces risks associated with the expansion to other Latin American markets. From 1994 to 2002, IRSA had substantial investments outside of Argentina, including Brazil Realty, which was sold in 2002, and Fondo de Valores Inmobiliarios in Venezuela, which was sold in 2001. IRSA continue to believe that Brazil, Uruguay and other Latin American countries offer attractive growth opportunities in the real estate sector. IRSA will continue to consider investment opportunities outside of Argentina as they arise. Investments in Brazil and other Latin American countries are subject to significant risks including sovereign risks and risks affecting these countries’ real estate sectors. These risks include competition by well-established as well as new developers, unavailability of financing or financing on terms that are not acceptable to IRSA, exchange rate fluctuations, lack of liquidity in the market, rising construction costs and inflation, extensive and potentially increasing regulation and bureaucratic procedures for obtaining permits and authorizations, political and economic instability that may result in sharp shifts in demand for properties, risks of default in payment and difficulty evicting defaulting tenants. In 2009, IRSA has acquired a property in Partido de la Costa, Department of Canelones, Uruguay, near Montevideo, where IRSA plans to develop a real estate housing units and commercial premises. If the bankruptcy of Inversora Dársena Norte S.A. is extended to IRSA´s subsidiary Puerto Retiro, IRSA will likely lose a significant investment in a unique waterfront land reserve in the City of Buenos Aires. On November 18, 1997, IRSA, in connection with the acquisition of its subsidiary Inversora Bolívar S.A. (“Inversora Bolívar”), indirectly acquired 35.2% of the capital stock of Puerto Retiro. Inversora Bolívar purchased such shares of Puerto Retiro from Redona Investments Ltd. N.V. in 1996. In 1999, IRSA, through Inversora Bolívar, increased its interest in Puerto Retiro to 50.0% of its capital stock. On April 18, 2000, Puerto Retiro received notice of a complaint filed by the Argentine government, through the Ministry of Defense, seeking to extend the bankruptcy of Inversora Dársena Norte S.A. (“Indarsa”). Upon filing of the complaint, the bankruptcy court issued an order restraining the ability of Puerto Retiro to dispose of the real property it had purchased in 1993 from Tandanor S.A. (“Tandanor”). Puerto Retiro appealed to the restraining order which was confirmed by the court on December 14, 2000. In 1991, Indarsa purchased 90% of Tandanor, a formerly government-owned company, which owned a large piece of land near Puerto Madero of approximately 8 hectares, divided into two spaces: Planta 1 and 2. After the purchase of Tandanor by Indarsa, in June 1993 Tandanor sold “Planta 1” to Puerto Retiro, for a sum of US$18 million pursuant to a valuation performed by J.L. Ramos, a well-known real estate brokerage firm in Argentina. Indarsa failed to pay to the Argentine government the outstanding price for its purchase of the stock of Tandanor. As a result, the Ministry of Defense requested the bankruptcy of Indarsa. Since the only asset of Indarsa was its holding in Tandanor, the Argentine government is seeking to extend Indarsa’s bankruptcy to the companies or individuals, which, according to its view, acted as a single economic group. In particular, the Argentine government has requested the extension of the bankruptcy to Puerto Retiro, which acquired Planta 1 from Tandanor. The time for producing evidence in relation to these legal proceeding has expired. The parties have submitted their closing arguments and are awaiting a final judgment. However, the judge has delayed his decision until a final judgment in the criminal proceedings against the former Defense Minister and former directors of Indarsa has been delivered. It should be noticed, regarding the above-mentioned criminal procedure that on February 23, 2011 it was resolved to declare its expiration, and to dismiss certain defendants. However, this resolution is not final because it was appealed. IRSA cannot give you any assurance that the company will prevail in this proceeding, and if the plaintiff’s claim is upheld by the courts, all of the assets of Puerto Retiro would likely be used to pay Indarsa’s debts and the investment in Puerto Retiro, valued at Ps. 44.9 million, as of June 30, 2013, would be lost. As of June 30, 2013, IRSA had not established any reserve with respect to this contingency. Property ownership through joint ventures or minority participation may limit IRSA´s ability to act exclusively in its interest. IRSA develops and acquires properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when IRSA believes circumstances warrant the use of such structures. For example, in its Shopping Center segment, as of June 30, 2013, IRSA owned approximately 95.7% of Alto Palermo. Through its subsidiary Alto Palermo, IRSA own 80% of Panamerican Mall S.A., while another 20% is owned by Centro Comercial Panamericano S.A and 50% of Quality Invest S.A.. In IRSA´s Development and Sales of Properties segment, IRSA has ownership of 50% in Puerto Retiro and 50% in Cyrsa S.A. In IRSA´s Hotels 26 segment, IRSA owns 50% of the Llao Llao Hotel, while the other 50% is owned by the Sutton Group. IRSA owns 80% of the Hotel Libertador, Hoteles Sheraton de Argentina S.A. owns 20%. IRSA owns 76.34% of Hotel Intercontinental. In the Financial Operations and Others segment, IRSA owns approximately 29.77% of Banco Hipotecario, while the Argentine government has a controlling interest. Finally, IRSA owns a 49% interest in Metropolitan, 49% in a building located at Madison Avenue in New York and holds voting rights with respect to a 34% interest in Supertel Hospitality Inc. IRSA could engage in a dispute with one or more of its joint venture partners that might affect its ability to operate a jointly owned property. Moreover, its joint venture partners may at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with its objectives, including objectives that relate to the timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of a property. For example, the approval of certain of the other investors is required with respect to operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or selling any of these properties. In some instances, its joint venture partners may have competing interests in its markets that could create conflicts of interest. If the objectives of its joint venture partners are inconsistent with its own objectives, IRSA will not be able to act exclusively in its interests. If one or more of the investors in any of its jointly owned properties were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, there could be an adverse effect on the relevant property or properties and in turn, on its financial performance. Should a joint venture partner declare bankruptcy, IRSA could be liable for its partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. IRSA is dependent on its board of directors and certain other senior managers. IRSA´s success depends on the continued employment of Eduardo S. Elsztain, its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, and certain members of its board of directors and senior management, who have significant expertise and knowledge of its business and industry. The loss of or interruption in his services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on its business. IRSA´s future success also depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. IRSA cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. A failure to hire or retain qualified personnel may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Due to the currency mismatches between assets and liabilities, IRSA may have a significant currency exposure. As of June 30, 2013, the majority of IRSA´s liabilities, such as its 7.45%, 8.5% and 11.5% notes due 2014, 2017 and 2020 respectively, Alto Palermo’s Series I Notes are denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of its revenues and assets as of June 30, 2013, are denominated in Pesos. This currency gap exposes IRSA to a risk of exchange rate volatility, which would negatively affect its financial results if the Dollar were to appreciate against the Peso. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of its debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on its results of operation and financial condition and may increase the collection risk of its leases and other receivables from its tenants and mortgage debtors, most of whom have Peso-denominated revenues. The shift of consumers to purchasing goods over the Internet may negatively affect sales in IRSA´s shopping centers. During the last years, Internet retail sales have grown significantly in Argentina, even though the market share of Internet sales related to retail sales is still not significant. The Internet enables manufacturers and retailers to sell directly to consumers, diminishing the importance of traditional distribution channels such as retail stores and shopping centers. IRSA believes that its target consumers are increasingly using the Internet, from home, work or elsewhere, to shop electronically for retail goods. IRSA believes that this trend is likely to continue. If e-commerce and retail sales through the Internet continue to grow, consumers’ reliance on traditional distribution channels such as IRSA´s shopping centers could be materially diminished, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects Risks Related to IRSA´s Investment in Banco Hipotecario S.A. As of June 30, 2013, through IRSA we owned approximately 29.77% of the outstanding capital stock of Banco Hipotecario (without considering treasury shares) which represented 12.45 % of our consolidated assets as of such date. All of Banco Hipotecario S.A.’s operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, the quality of Banco Hipotecario’s loan portfolio, financial condition and results of operations depend on economic, regulatory and political conditions prevailing in Argentina. These conditions include growth rates, inflation rates, exchange rates, changes to interest rates, changes to Government policies, social instability and other political, economic or international developments either taking place in, or otherwise affecting, Argentina. The Argentine financial system’s growth and profits are partially dependent upon changes in long-term funding. Due to the global economic recession, Argentina’s banking industry underwent a significant slow-down, which was reterted in late 2009. Although the extension of credit to the private section rose by late 2009, year-end results exhibited a smaller expansion. Loans to the private sector rose in subsequent years. Despite the recovery in credit extension, the recovery of the long-term credit market (i.e., mortgage and pledge loans) makes progress at a slower pace. If longer-term financial intermediation did not grow, the ability of financial institutions to generate more profits could be adversely affected. Although deposits with the financial system have risen since 2002, most placements are sight deposits or a short term deposit, which exposes the banks, engaged in long-term credit extension to liquidity risk and intensifies their need to depend on the Argentine Central Bank as a potential liquidity guarantor. The stability of the financial system depends upon the ability of financial institutions, including Banco Hipotecario S.A. to retain the confidence of depositors. The measures implemented by the Argentine Government in late 2001 and early 2002, in particular the restrictions imposed on depositors’ ability to withdraw money freely from banks and the pesification and restructuring of their deposits, resulted in losses for many depositors and undermined their confidence in the Argentine financial system. Although the financial system has seen a recovery in the amount of deposits since 2002 (measured in Pesos), Banco Hipotecario may not assure that this trend will continue and that the deposit base of the Argentine financial system, including Banco Hipotecario’s, will not be negatively affected in the future by adverse economic, social and political events. If, in the future, depositor confidence weakens and the deposit base contracts, such loss of confidence and contraction of deposits will have a substantial negative impact on the ability of financial institutions, including Banco Hipotecario, to operate as financial intermediaries. If the Banco Hipotecario is not able to act as a financial intermediary and otherwise conduct its business as usual, its ability to honor its debts, might be adversely affected or limited. 27 Financial institutions’ asset quality is exposed to the non-financial public sector’s indebtedness. Financial institutions carry significant portfolios of bonds issued by the Argentine Government and provincial governments as well as loans granted to these governments. To an extent, the value of the assets in the hands of Argentine banks, as well as their capacity to generate income is dependent on the creditworthiness of the non-financial public sector, which is in turn tied to the Argentine Government’s ability to foster sustainable long-term growth, generate fiscal revenues and cut back on public expenditure. As of June 30, 2013, the Banco Hipotecario’s total exposure to the public sector indebtedness was Ps. 2,042.2 million, that is, 11.8% of the Banco Hipotecario’s assets at that date. Actions for collection as a means of enforcing creditors’ rights in Argentina may be limited. In order to protect the debtors affected by the 2001 economic crisis, starting in 2002 the Argentine Government adopted measures that suspended proceedings to enforce creditors’ rights (mortgage foreclosures and bankruptcy petitions) in the event of defaults by debtors. Although at the date of this Annual Report those measures were no longer in force, Banco Hipotecario cannot assure you that they won’t be reinstated in the future, or that the government will not take other measures that limit creditors’ rights. Any such measures could have a material adverse effect on the enforceability of creditor’s rights. Consumer protection laws may limit the enforceability of certain of Banco Hipotecario’s rights. Argentine Consumer Protection Law No. 24,240, as supplemented or amended (the “Consumer Protection Law”) establishes a number of rules and principles for the defense of consumers’ interests. The Consumer Protection Law does not contain specific provisions for its enforcement in relation to financial activities, but it does contain general provisions that may be used as grounds to uphold such enforcement, as it has been previously interpreted in various legal precedents. Banco Hipotecario may not assure you that the judgments passed by the courts and/or the resolutions handed down by administrative authorities in connection with the measures adopted by Argentina’s Secretary of Homeland Trade and other competent authorities will not increase in the future the degree of protection afforded their debtors and other clients or that they will not favor the claims filed by groups or associations of consumers. This could affect the ability of financial institutions, including the Banco Hipotecario’s, to freely collect charges, commissions or fees for their services and/or products as well as their amounts, and consequently affect their business and the results of their operations. Class actions against financial institutions for unliquidated amounts could adversely affect the financial system’s profitability. Certain public and private organizations have initiated class actions against financial institutions in Argentina. The Argentine National Constitution and the Consumer Protection Law contain certain provisions regarding class actions. However, their guidance with respect to procedural rules for instituting and trying class action cases is limited. Nonetheless, through an ad hoc doctrine, Argentine courts have admitted class actions in some cases, including various lawsuits against financial entities related to “collective interests” such as alleged overcharging on products, interest rates and advice in the sale of public securities, etc. If class action plaintiffs were to prevail against financial institutions, their success could have an adverse effect on the financial industry in general and indirectly on the Banco Hipotecario’s business. Banco Hipotecario operates in a highly regulated environment and its operations are subject to regulations adopted, and measures taken, by several regulatory agencies. Financial institutions are subject to a major number of regulations concerning functions historically determined by the Argentine Central Bank and other regulatory authorities. The Argentine Central Bank could impose sanctions to Banco Hipotecario in the event that it breaches any applicable regulation. Similarly, the Argentine Securities Commission, which authorizes securities offerings and regulates the public markets in Argentina, has the authority to impose sanctions to Banco Hipotecario and its board of directors for breaches of corporate governance. The Financial Information Unit regulates matters relating to the prevention of asset laundering and has the ability to monitor compliance with any such regulations by financial institutions and, eventually, impose sanctions. Banco Hipotecario cannot assure you that such regulatory authorities will not commence proceedings against Banco Hipotecario, its shareholders or directors nor issue sanctions against Banco Hipotecario. In addition to regulations specific to its industry, Banco Hipotecario is subject to a wide range of federal, provincial and municipal regulations and supervision generally applicable to businesses operating in Argentina, including laws and regulations pertaining to labor, social security, public health, consumer protection, the environment, competition and price controls. Banco Hipotecario may not assure that existing or future legislation and regulation will not require material expenditures by Banco Hipotecario or otherwise have a material adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’s consolidated operations. Future governmental measures could adversely affect the economy and the operations of financial institutions. The Argentine Government has historically exercised significant influence over the economy, and financial institutions, in particular, have operated in a highly regulated environment. Banco Hipotecario cannot assure that the laws and regulations currently governing the economy or the banking sector will remain unaltered in the future. Accordingly, Law No. 26,739 has been recently enacted to amend the Argentine Central Bank Charter, the principal aspects of which are: (i) to broaden the scope of the Argentine Central Bank's mission (by establishing that such institution shall be responsible for financial stability and economic development while pursuing social equity); (ii) to change the obligation to maintain an equivalent ratio between the monetary base and the amount of international reserves; (iii) to establish that the board of directors of the institution will be the authority responsible for determining the level of reserves required to guarantee normal operation of the foreign exchange market based on changes in external accounts; (iv) to empower the monetary authority to regulate and provide guidance on credit through the financial system institutions, so as to "promote long-term production investment”. Banco Hipotecario is not able to ensure that any current or future laws and regulations (including, in particular, the amendment to the Financial Institutions Law and the amendment to the Argentine Central Bank Charter) will not result in significant costs to Banco Hipotecario, or will otherwise have a material adverse effect on its operations. A highly volatile regulatory framework could affect the country's economy in general, the financial institutions and Banco Hipotecario. The Argentine Government has historically exercised significant influence over the Argentine economy and financial institutions in particular have operated in a highly regulated environment throughout different periods. Since December 2001, the Argentine Government has promulgated numerous, 28 far-reaching regulations affecting the economy in general and financial institutions in particular. The laws and regulations that currently govern the economy and the financial sector may change in the future. We cannot assure that any changes in the regulations and the policies of the Argentine Government will not adversely affect financial institutions in Argentina, including Banco Hipotecario, its business, financial condition, the results of its operations or its ability to service foreign debt denominated in foreign currency. A non-stable regulatory framework would impose significant limitations on the activities of the financial system, including Banco Hipotecario, and it would give rise to uncertainty as regards its future financial condition and the result of its operations. Increased competition and M&A activities in the banking industry could adversely affect Banco Hipotecario. Banco Hipotecario foresees increased competition in the banking sector, additionally, if the trend towards decreasing spreads is not offset by the increase in lending volumes, the ensuing losses could lead to mergers in the industry. Mergers could lead to the establishment of larger, stronger banks with more resources than Banco Hipotecario. Therefore, although the demand for financial products and services in these markets continues to grow, competition could adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’s results of operations, shrinking spreads and commissions. Differences between the accounting standards inforce in Argentina and certain countries, such as the United States, may make it difficult to compare Banco Hipotecario´s financial statements and those prepared by companies from other countries. Publicly available information about Banco Hipotecario in Argentina is presented differently from the information available for public companies in certain countries with highly developed capital markets, such as the United States. Except as otherwise described herein, Banco Hipotecario prepares its financial statements in accordance with Argentine Banking GAAP, which could differ in certain significant respects from Argentine GAAP and from U.S. GAAP. The effects of the legislation that restricts Banco Hipotecario’s ability to pursue mortgage foreclosure proceedings could adversely affect Banco Hipotecario. The ability to pursue foreclosure proceedings through completion in order to recover on its defaulted mortgage loans has an impact on Banco Hipotecario’s activities. On December 13, 2006 and pursuant to Law No. 26,177, the “Restructuring Unit Law” was created to allow all the mortgage loans to be restructured between debtors and former Banco Hipotecario Nacional as far as they had been granted before the entry into force of Law No. 23,928 (the “Convertibility Law”). Law No. 26,313, the “Pre-convertibility Mortgage Loans Restructuring Law” was enacted by the Argentine Congress on November 21, 2007 and partially signed into law on December 6, 2007 to lay down the procedure to be followed in restructuring the mortgage loans within the scope of Section 23 of the Mortgage Refinancing System Law in accordance with the guidelines established by the Restructuring Unit Law. To this end, a new recalculation was encated for certain mortgage loans originated by the former Banco Hipotecario Nacional before April 1, 1991. Decree 2107/08 issued on December 19, 2008 regulated the Pre-convertibility Mortgage Loans Restructuring Law and established that the recalculation of the debt applies to the individual mortgage loans from global operations in force at December 31, 2008 and agreed upon previous to April 1, 1991, and in arrears at least since November 2007 and remaining in arrears at December 31, 2008. In turn, Decree 1366/10, published on September 21, 2010, expanded the universe of Pre-convertibility loans subject to restructuring to include the individual mortgage loans not originating in global operations as far as they met the other requirements imposed by Decree 2107/08. In addition, Law No. 26,313 and its regulatory decrees also condoned the debts on mortgage loans granted before the Convertibility Law in so far as they had been granted to deal with emergency situations and in so far as they met the arrears requirement imposed on the loans subject to recalculation. Subject to the Argentine Central Bank´s supervision, Banco Hipotecario has implemented the recalculation of mortgage loans within the scope of the above-discussed rules by adjusting the value of the new installments to a maximum amount not in excess of 20% of the household income. In this respect, Banco Hipotecario estimates that it has sufficient loan loss provisions to face any adverse economic impact on the portfolio involved. However, Banco Hipotecario may not assure you that the Argentine Government will not enact new additional laws restricting Banco Hipotecario’s ability to enforce its rights as a creditor and/or imposing a condonation or a reduction of principal on the amounts unpaid in Banco Hipotecario’s mortgage loan portfolio. Any such circumstance might have a significant adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’s financial condition and on the results of operations. The Argentine Government may prevail at Banco Hipotecario’s General Shareholders’ Meetings. By virtue of Law No. 23,696 (the “Privatization Law”) there are no restrictions on the Argentine Government’s ability to dispose of its Class A shares and all those shares minus one could be sold to third parties through public offering. Banco Hipotecario’s By-laws set forth that if at any time Class A shares were to represent less than 42% of Banco Hipotecario’s shares with right to vote, Class D shares automatically lose their triple vote right, which could result in the Main Shareholders losing control. Should any such situation materialize and should the Argentine Government retain a sufficient number of Class A shares, the Argentine Government could prevail in Shareholders’ Meetings (except for some decisions that call for qualified majorities) and could thus exert actual control on the decisions that must be submitted to consideration by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Banco Hipotecario may in the future consider new business opportunities, which could turn out to be unsuccessful. In recent years Banco Hipotecario has considered some business acquisitions or combinations and it plans to continue considering acquisitions that offer appealing opportunities and that are in line with Banco Hipotecario’s commercial strategy. However, Banco Hipotecario may not assure you that such businesses could deliver sustainable outcomes or that Banco Hipotecario will be able to consummate the acquisition of financial institutions in 29 favorable conditions. Additionally, Banco Hipotecario’s ability to obtain the desired outcome as a result of said acquisitions will be partly dependent upon Banco Hipotecario’s ability to follow through with the successful integration of the businesses. To integrate any acquired business entails major risks, including: • Unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems; • Problems inherent in assimilating or retaining the target’s employees; • Challenges associated with keeping the target’s customers; • Unforeseen liabilities or contingencies associated with the targets; and • The likelihood of management having to take time and attention out of the business’s day-to-day to focus on the integration activities and the resolution of associated problems. Risks Related to Our ADSs and Common Shares Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common shares and American Depositary Shares. The market prices of our common shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or ADSs in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The ADSs are freely transferable under U.S. securities laws, including shares sold to our affiliates. Inversiones Financieras del Sur S.A., which as of June 30, 2013, owned approximately 39.01% of our common shares (on a fully diluted basis) (or approximately 190,031,684 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 19,190,352 ADSs), is free to dispose of any or all of its common shares or ADSs at any time in its discretion. Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or ADSs would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States. There may be less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange (the “Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires”or “BASE”) than is regularly published by or about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. We are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment. We are a publicly held stock corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and our senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against us or them in United States courts judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. There is doubt whether the Argentine courts will enforce, to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a U.S. or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. Holders of our common shares of ADSs would suffer negative consequences. Based on the current and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for the tax year ending June 30, 2013, and we do not currently expect to become a PFIC, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our asset or income composition or if our projections are not accurate. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets and the accuracy of our projections. In addition, this determination is based on the interpretation of certain U.S. Treasury regulations relating to rental income, which regulations are potentially subject to differing interpretation.If we become a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined in “Taxation—United States Taxation”) of our shares or ADSs will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for U.S. Holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by us or upon a sale or other disposition of our shares or ADSs at a gain, as well as reporting requirements. Please see ‘‘Taxation—United States Taxation’’ for a more detailed discussion of the consequences if we are deemed a PFIC. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be fewer or less well defined than in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by Argentine corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of our common shares to protect your or their interests in connection with actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well defined under Argentine corporate law than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are illegal under Argentine law, the Argentine securities markets are not as highly regulated or supervised as the U.S. securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self−dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Argentina than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. 30 The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Argentina are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Argentine law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes, such as derivative lawsuits and class actions, is less developed under Argentine law than under U.S. law as a result of Argentina’s short history with these types of claims and few successful cases. In addition, there are different procedural requirements for bringing these types of shareholder lawsuits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. Holders of common shares may determine to not pay any dividends. In accordance with Argentine corporate law we may pay dividends to shareholders out of net and realized profits, if any, as set forth in our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. The approval, amount and payment of dividends are subject to the approval by our shareholders at our annual ordinary shareholders meeting. The approval of dividends requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate enough net and realized profits so as to pay dividends or that our shareholders will decide that dividends will be paid. Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited. Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited by the ability of the depositary to convert cash dividends paid in Pesos into U.S. dollars. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with the depositary for the ADSs, to the extent that the ADS depositary can in its judgment, and in accordance with local exchange regulations, convert Pesos (or any other foreign currency) into U.S. dollars on a reasonable basis and transfer the resulting U.S. dollars abroad, the ADS depositary will promptly as practicable convert or cause to be converted all cash dividends received by it in Pesos on the deposited securities into U.S. dollars. If in the judgment of the depositary this conversion is not possible on a reasonable basis (or is not permitted by applicable Argentine laws, regulations and approval requirements), the ADS depositary may distribute the foreign currency received by it in Pesos in Argentina or in its discretion hold such currency uninvested for the respective accounts of the owners entitled to receive the same. As a result, if the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. 