D. RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risks associated with our business, taking into account the instability of the country in which we operate. We may also face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently affecting us, or that we currently deem immaterial, which may materially impair our business. In general, investing in companies which operate in emerging markets such as Argentina is more risky than investing in companies which operate in more stable markets such as the United States. Risks Related to Argentina Argentina’s current growth and stabilization may not be sustainable. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Although the economy has recovered significantly over the past three years, uncertainty remains as to whether the current growth and relative stability are sustainable. Sustainable economic growth is dependant on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers as well as foreign and domestic investors and stable and relatively low inflation. The Argentine economy remains fragile for the following reasons: • unemployment remains high; • the availability of long-term fixed rate credit is limited; • investment as a percentage of GDP remains low; • the current fiscal surplus could become a fiscal deficit; • inflation has risen recently and threatens to accelerate; • the country’s public debt remains high and international financing is limited; and • the recovery has depended to some extent on high commodity prices, which are volatile and outside the control of the country, and excess capacity, which has reduced considerably. A substantial part of our operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. As a result, our business is to a very large extent dependent upon the economic conditions prevailing in Argentina. The continuing rise of inflation may have an adverse effect on the economy. After several years of price stability, the devaluation of the Peso in January 2002 imposed pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation throughout 2002. In 2003, inflation substantially stabilized. However, inflationary pressures have since reemerged with consumer prices increasing by 6.1% during 2004 and increasing by 12.3% in 2005. As a result of the execution of fixed price agreements and restrictions on, and in certain cases, suspension of, exports, consumer prices only increased by 9.8% in 2006. As of November, 30, 2007, according to the Argentine statistics and census agency, or INDEC,consumer prices index increased by 8.5%on an annualized basis. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions conducive to growth. A return to a high inflation environment could slow the rebound in the long term credit market and real estate market and may also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation and negatively impacting the level of economic activity and employment. 12 Table of Contents If inflation remains high or continues to rise, Argentina’s economy may be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on our business. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited which may affect its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth. In the first half of 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. As of March 31, 2007, the Argentine government announced that as a result of the restructuring, it had approximately US$136.3 billion in total outstanding debt remaining. Of this amount, approximately US$26.5 billion are defaulted bonds owned by creditors who did not participate in the restructuring of the external financial debt. Some noteholders in the United States, Italy and Germany have filed legal actions against Argentina, and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. Additionally, foreign shareholders of certain Argentine companies have filed claims in excess of US$17 billion before the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes, or ICSID, alleging that certain government measures are inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral treaties to which Argentina is a party. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may prevent Argentina from reentering the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims may result in material judgments against the Argentine government and could result in attachments of, or injunctions relating to, assets of Argentina that the government intended for other uses. As a result, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster growth which could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our business. Significant devaluation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our financial performance. Despite the positive effects of the real depreciation of the Peso in 2002 on the competitiveness of certain sectors of the Argentine economy, it has also had a far-reaching negative impact on the Argentine economy and on businesses and individuals’ financial condition. The devaluation of the Peso has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, initially led to very high inflation, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, such as utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences to our business. Moreover, it would likely result in a decline in the value of our common shares and the ADSs as measured in U.S. dollars. Significant appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the Argentine economy. A substantial increase in the value of the Peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar negatively impacts the financial condition of entities whose foreign currency-denominated assets exceed their foreign currency-denominated liabilities, such as us. In addition, in the short term, a significant real appreciation of the Peso would adversely affect exports. This could have a negative effect on GDP growth and employment as well as reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, given its current heavy reliance on taxes on exports. The appreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and our business. Government measures to preempt or respond to social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy. During its crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite Argentina’s ongoing 13 Table of Contents economic recovery and relative stabilization, social and political tension and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. These restrictions have been substantially eased, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. However, Argentina may re-impose exchange control or transfer restrictions in the future, among other things, in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso. In addition, the government issued Decree No. 616/2005 in June 2005 that established new controls on capital inflows that could result in less availability of international credit. Pursuant to such Decree, the Ministry of Economy’s Resolution No. 292/2005 was repealed and it was established that any indebtedness in favor of foreign creditors by individuals and legal entities residing in Argentina and conducting business in the private sector must be settled in Argentina and must mature no earlier than 365 days irrespective of the manner of settlement, except in the following cases: transactions related to foreign trade financing and original issuances of debt instruments admitted to public offering and listed in self-regulated stock exchanges. Therefore, (a) any cash inflows in the domestic foreign exchange market arising from debts incurred with foreign creditors by individuals or legal entities in the private sector and (b) transfers by non-residents to acquire financial assets or liabilities of any kind in the financial and non-financial private sector, excluding direct foreign investment and original issuances of debt instruments admitted to public offering and listed on self-regulated stock exchanges, must meet the following requirements: (i) they may be remitted abroad only after expiration of a term of at least 365 days counted after the date on which such funds officially entered the Argentine foreign exchange market; (ii) the amounts resulting from the exchange rate settlement transaction are to be deposited in an account opened at an Argentine banking system institution, (iii) a non-transferable, non-interest bearing deposit of 30% of the amount being settled is to be made in the name of the depositor for a term of 365 days and (iv) such deposit is to be held in U.S. dollars at one of the Argentine banking system institutions and may not be used as guarantee or collateral of any loan. Non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Decree 616/2005 shall be punished in accordance with the Criminal Foreign Exchange Regime. Additional controls could have a negative effect on the economy and our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is substantially constrained. Moreover, in such event, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad may impede your ability to receive dividend payments as a holder of ADSs. Payment of dividends to non-residents has been limited in the past and may be limited again. Beginning on February 2002, any payment of dividends, irrespective of amount, outside Argentina needed prior authorization from the Central Bank. In December 2002 the rule was amended through Communication “A” 3845 which required Argentine companies to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank to purchase currency in excess of US$150,000 (in the aggregate) per calendar month. This rule applied, among others, to the payment of dividends. On January 7, 2003, the Central Bank issued communication “A” 3859 which is still enforceable and pursuant to which Argentine companies have no limitation on their ability to purchase foreign currency and transfer it outside Argentina to pay dividends, to the extent such dividend payments result from an approved and audited financial statement. In the future, similar restrictions may be enacted by the Argentine government or the Central Bank again and, if this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on the value of our common shares and the ADSs. 14 Table of Contents The stability of the Argentine banking system is uncertain. During 2001 and the first half of 2002, a very significant amount of deposits were withdrawn from financial institutions. This massive withdrawal of deposits was largely due to the loss of confidence of depositors in the Argentine government’s ability to repay its debts, including its debts within the financial system, and to maintain peso-dollar parity in the context of its solvency crisis. To prevent a run on the U.S. dollar reserves of local banks, the government restricted the amount of money that account holders could withdraw from banks and introduced exchange controls restricting capital outflows. The government subsequently imposed new restrictions and released a schedule stating how and when deposits would become available. These measures taken by the government to protect the solvency of the banking system, in particular the emergency laws that converted certain U.S. dollar-denominated debts into Pesos, generated significant opposition directly against banks from depositors frustrated by the loss of their savings. Many depositors instituted court challenges, eventually at the Supreme Court level, on constitutional grounds seeking restitution of their deposits in their original currency. Under Argentine law, Supreme Court rulings are limited to the particular facts and defendants in the case, although lower courts tend to follow precedent set by the Supreme Court. Initial Supreme Court rulings struck down on constitutional grounds pesification pursuant to Law No. 25,561 (the “Public Emergency Law”). However, the Supreme Court has found in subsequent holdings that emergency laws enacted by the Argentine Congress were necessary to mitigate the crisis, the regulations were not disproportionate to the emergency, and the measures did not violate the constitutional property rights of those affected. For instance, the Supreme Court held on December 27, 2006 in Massa, Juan Agustin vs. Poder Ejecutivo Nacional y Otro that banks should repay deposits originally denominated in U.S. dollars in Pesos at an exchange rate of Ps.1.40 per US$1.00, subject to CER or Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia indexation, plus interest, at a 4% annual rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, numerous other cases challenging the constitutionality of the pesification pursuant to the Public Emergency Law are still pending. We cannot assure you that the Supreme Court will consistently uphold the views expressed in its latest rulings, or that future rulings will not negatively affect the banking system as a whole. If the Argentine government is called upon to provide additional financial assistance to the banks through the issuance of additional government debt, this could add to Argentina’s outstanding debt and would increase the burdens of the public sector. While the condition of Argentina’s financial system has improved and depositors affected by the restrictions imposed in 2001 and 2002 have regained access to their deposits, albeit mainly in Pesos and subject to certain restrictions, you should not underestimate the long-term implications of the most recent crisis for Argentina’s economy and the credibility of its financial system. Adverse economic developments, even if not related to or attributable to the financial system, could easily result in deposits flowing out of the banks and into the foreign exchange market, as depositors seek to shield their financial assets from a new crisis. Any run on deposits could create liquidity or even solvency problems for financial institutions and bring about similar measures or other government interventions. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999. In addition, Argentina continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners. Furthermore, the Argentine economy may be adversely affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. In the future, political and economic crises in the international markets can be expected to adversely affect the Argentine economy and its financial system and therefore our business. 15 Table of Contents Recent Presidential and Congressional elections may adversely affect the Argentine economy. On October 28, 2007, presidential and congressional elections took place in Argentina. Cristina Fernández de Kirchner was elected as President, the ruling party maintained the majority in Congress and as a result, there exists uncertainty regarding the economic policy to be carried out by the new government. There are no assurances that future uncertainties preceding and resulting from the Congressional and the Presidential elections will not negatively impact the Argentine economy and/or local bonds and stock markets. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised and continues to exercise influence over the Brazilian economy, which together with Brazil’s historically volatile political and economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent to some extent on the economic conditions in Brazil. As of June 30, 2007, approximately 6.4% of our consolidated assets were located in Brazil through our affiliate BrasilAgro. Historically, the Brazilian government has changed monetary, credit, tariff, and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. Such government actions have included increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, as well as other measures such as imposing exchange controls and limits on imports and exports. Our operations in Brazil may be adversely affected by changes in public policy at federal, state and municipal levels with respect to public tariffs and exchange controls, as well as other factors, such as: • fluctuation in exchange rates in Brazil; • monetary policy; • exchange controls and restrictions on remittances outside Brazil, such as those which were imposed on such remittances (including dividends) in 1989 and early 1990; • inflation in Brazil; • interest rates; • liquidity of the Brazilian financial, capital and lending markets; • fiscal policy and tax regime in Brazil; and • other political, social and economical developments in or affecting Brazil. Actions of the Brazilian government in the future could have a significant effect on economic conditions in Brazil, which could adversely affect private sector companies such as BrasilAgro, and thus, could adversely affect us. Although inflation in Brazil has stabilized in recent years, increased inflation may adversely affect the operations of BrasilAgro which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Brazil has experienced high and generally unpredictable rates of inflation for many years in the past. Inflation itself, as well as governmental policies to combat inflation, have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy in general. Inflation, government efforts to control inflation, and public speculation about future governmental actions have had, and can be expected to continue to have, significant impact on the Brazilian economy and on our operations in Brazil. As measured by the Brazilian Índice Nacional de Preços au Consumidor (National Consumer Price Index), or INPC, inflation in Brazil was 6.1%, 5.1%, 2.8% and 2.1% in 2004, 2005, 2006 and for the six-month period ended June 30, 2007, respectively. We cannot assure you that 16 Table of Contents levels of inflation in Brazil will not increase in future years and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Inflationary pressures may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect the results of operations of BrasilAgro and consequently our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares and ADSs. The Brazilian real is subject to depreciation and exchange rate volatility which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Brazil’s rate of inflation and the government’s actions to combat inflation have also affected the exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar. As a result of inflationary pressures, the Brazilian currency has been devalued periodically during the last four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian federal government has implemented various economic plans and utilized a number of exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini devaluations (during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly), floating exchange rate systems, exchange controls and dual exchange rate markets. During 2005 and 2006, the real appreciated 11.8% and 8.7%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. Despite the recent appreciation there can be no assurance that the real will not depreciate against the U.S. dollar in the future, or that the rate of exchange between the real and the dollar will not fluctuate significantly. In the event of a devaluation of the real, the financial condition and results of operations of our Brazilian subsidiary could be adversely affected. Depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar may increase the cost of servicing foreign currency-denominated debt that we may incur in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, depreciation of the real could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may adversely affect our results of operations. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and may prompt government intervention. It could also reduce the U.S. dollar value of BrasilAgro’s revenues, distributions and dividends, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares. On the other hand, the appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to the deterioration of Brazil’s public accounts and balance of payments, as well as to lower economic growth from exports. The Brazilian government imposes certain restrictions on currency conversions and remittances abroad which could affect the timing and amount of any dividend or other payment we receive. Brazilian law guarantees foreign shareholders of Brazilian companies the right to repatriate their invested capital and to receive all dividends in foreign currency provided that their investment is registered with the Banco Central do Brazil, or the Brazilian Central Bank. We registered our investment in BrasilAgro with the Brazilian Central Bank on April 28, 2006. Although dividend payments related to profits obtained subsequent to April 28, 2006 are not subject to income tax, after the sum of repatriated capital and invested capital exceeds the investment amount registered with the Brazilian Central Bank, repatriated capital is subject to a capital gains tax of 15%. There can be no assurance that the Brazilian government will not impose additional restrictions or modify existing regulations that would have an adverse effect on an investor’s ability to repatriate funds from Brazil nor can there be any assurance of the timing or duration of such restrictions, if imposed in the future. Widespread uncertainties, corruption and fraud relating to ownership of real estate may adversely affect our business. There are widespread uncertainties, corruption and fraud relating to title ownership of real estate in Brazil. In Brazil, ownership of real property is conveyed through filing of deeds before the relevant land registry. In certain cases, land registry recording errors, including duplicate and/or fraudulent entries, and deed challenges frequently occur, leading to judicial actions. Property disputes over title ownership are frequent, and, as a result, there is a risk that errors, fraud or challenges could adversely affect us, causing the loss of all or substantially all of our properties. In addition, our land may be subject to expropriation by the Brazilian government. An expropriation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, social movements, such as Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra and Comissão Pastoral 17 Table of Contents da Terra, are active in Brazil. Such movements advocate land reform and mandatory property redistribution by the government. Land invasions and occupations of rural areas by a large number of individuals is common practice for these movements, and, in certain areas, including some of those in which we are likely to invest, police protection and effective eviction proceedings are not available to land owners. As a result, we cannot give you any assurance that our properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by these groups. A land invasion or occupation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on us or the value of our common shares or ADRs. The lack of efficient transportation, and adequate storage or handling facilities in certain of the regions in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business. One of the principal disadvantages of the agriculture industry in some of the regions of Brazil is that they are located a long distance from major ports – in some cases, nearly 1,500 kilometers. Efficient access to transportation infrastructure and ports is critical to the profitability in the agricultural industry. Furthermore, as part of our business strategy, we intend to acquire and develop land in specific areas where existing transportation is poor. A substantial portion of agricultural production in Brazil is currently transported by truck, a means of transportation significantly more expensive than the rail transportation available to the U.S. and other international producers. As a result, we may be unable to obtain efficient transportation to make our production reach our most important markets in a cost-effective manner, if at all. Risks Relating to Our Region Our business is dependent on economic conditions in the countries where we intend to operate. We intend to make future investments in farmland in Argentina, Brazil and possibly other countries in and outside Latin America. Because demand for agricultural products and farmland usually is correlated to economic conditions prevailing in the local market, which in turn is dependent on the macroeconomic condition of the country in which the market is located, our financial condition and results of operations are, to a considerable extent, dependent upon political and economic conditions prevailing from time to time in the countries where we operate. Latin American countries have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and economic instability. Certain countries have experienced severe economic crises, which may still have future effects. As a result, governments may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster growth. Any of these adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of the countries where we intend to operate are recovering from recent economic crises. Notwithstanding the positive economic results recorded recently in such countries, we cannot assure you that economic conditions will continue to improve or that our operations will experience positive results in the future. We face the risk of political and economic crises, instability, terrorism, civil strife, expropriation and other risks of doing business in emerging markets. In addition to Argentina and Brazil, we intend to conduct our operations in other Latin-American countries. Economic and political developments in these countries, including future economic changes or crises (such as inflation or recession), government deadlock, political instability, terrorism, civil strife, changes in laws and regulations, expropriation or nationalization of property, and exchange controls could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although economic conditions in one country may differ significantly from another country, we cannot assure that events in one country alone will not adversely affect our business or the market value of, or market for, our common shares or ADRs. Governments in the countries where we intend to operate exercise significant influence over their economies. Emerging market governments, including governments in the countries where we intend to operate, frequently intervene in the economies of their respective countries and occasionally make significant changes in policy and regulations. Governmental actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often 18 Table of Contents involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected by changes in government policies or regulations, including factors, such as: • exchange rates and exchange control policies; • inflation rates; • interest rates; • tariff and inflation control policies; • import duties on information technology equipment; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • electricity rationing; • tax policies; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting the countries where we intend to operate. An eventual reduction of foreign investment in any of the countries where we intend to operate may have a negative impact on such country’s economy, affecting interest rates and the ability of companies such as us to access financial markets. Local currencies used in the conduct of our business may be subject to exchange rate volatility and exchange controls. The currencies of many countries in Latin America have experienced substantial volatility in recent years. Currency movements, as well as higher interest rates, have materially and adversely affected the economies of many Latin American countries, including countries in which we operate or intend to operate. The depreciation of local currencies creates inflationary pressures that may have an adverse effect on us generally, and may restrict access to international capital markets. On the other hand, the appreciation of local currencies against the U.S. dollar may lead to deterioration in the balance of payments of the countries where we intend to operate, as well as to a lower economic growth. In addition, we may be subject to exchange control regulations in these Latin-American countries which might restrict our ability to convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. Inflation and certain government measures to curb inflation may have adverse effects on the economies of the countries where we intend to operate, our business and our operations. Most countries where we intend to operate have historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some measures implemented to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the economies of Latin American countries. Governmental actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty at times in most Latin American countries. The countries where we intend to operate may experience high levels of inflation in the future that could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of these countries experience high rates of inflation, we may not be able to adjust the price of our services sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structures. A high inflation environment would also have negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Developments in other markets may affect the Latin American countries where we intend to operate, and as a result our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The market value of securities of companies such as us, may be, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Latin American countries. Various Latin American economies have been adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in recent times. Furthermore, Latin American economies may be affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. Land in Latin-American countries may be subject to expropriation or occupation. Our land may be subject to expropriation by governments of the countries where we operate and intend to operate. An expropriation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, social movements, such as Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra and Comissão Pastoral da Terra in Brazil, are active in certain of the countries where we operate or intend to operate. Such movements advocate land reform and mandatory property redistribution by governments. Land invasions and occupations of rural areas by a large number of individuals is common practice for these movements, and, in certain areas, including some of those in which we are likely to invest, police protection and effective eviction proceedings are not available to land owners. As a result, we cannot give you any assurance that our future properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by these groups. A land invasion or occupation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on us or the value of our common shares or ADRs. Risks Relating to Our Business Fluctuation in market prices for our agriculture products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for cereals, oilseeds and by-products, like those of other commodities, can be expected to fluctuate significantly. The prices that we are able to obtain for our agriculture products depend on many factors beyond our control, including: • prevailing world prices, which historically have been subject to significant fluctuations over relatively short periods of time, depending on worldwide demand and supply; • changes in the agricultural subsidy levels in certain important countries (mainly the United States and countries in the European Union) and the adoption of other government policies affecting industry market conditions and prices; and • demand for and supply of competing commodities and substitutes. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if the prices of grains and agricultural by-products were to decline below current levels. Unpredictable weather conditions may have an adverse impact on our crop and beef cattle production. The occurrence of severe adverse weather conditions, especially droughts, hail or floods, is unpredictable and may have a potentially devastating impact upon our crop production and, to a lesser extent, our beef cattle production. The occurrence of severe adverse weather conditions may reduce yields on our farms or require us to increase our level of investment to maintain yields. As a result, we cannot assure you that future severe adverse weather conditions will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Disease may strike our crops without warning potentially destroying some or all of our yields. The occurrence and effect of crop disease and pestilence can be unpredictable and devastating to crops, potentially destroying all or a substantial portion of the affected harvests. Even when only a portion of the crop is damaged, our results of operations could be adversely affected because all or a substantial portion of the production costs for the entire crop have been incurred. Although some crop diseases are treatable, the cost of treatment is high, and we cannot assure that such events in the future will not adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our cattle are subject to diseases. Diseases among our cattle herds, such as tuberculosis, brucellosis and foot-and-mouth disease, can have an adverse effect on milk production and fattening, rendering cows unable to produce milk or meat for human consumption. Outbreaks of cattle diseases may also result in the closure of certain important markets, such as the United States, to our cattle products. Although we abide by national veterinary health guidelines, which include laboratory analyses and vaccination, to control diseases among the herds, especially foot-and-mouth disease, we cannot assure that future outbreaks of cattle diseases will not occur. A future outbreak of diseases among our cattle herds may adversely affect our beef cattle and milk sales which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may be exposed to material losses due to volatile crop prices since we hold significant uncovered futures and options positions to hedge our crop price risk. Due to the fact that we do not have 100% of our crops hedged, we are unable to have minimum price guarantees for all of our production and are therefore exposed to significant risks associated with the level and volatility of crop prices. We are subject to fluctuations in crop prices which could result in receiving a lower price for our crops than our production cost. We are also subject to exchange rate risks related to our crops that are hedged, because our futures and options positions are valued in U.S. dollars, and thus are subject to exchange rate risk. In addition, if severe weather or any other disaster generates a lower crop production than the position already sold in the market, we may suffer material losses in the repurchase of the sold contracts. The creation of new export taxes may have an adverse impact on our sales. In order to prevent inflation and variations in the exchange rate from adversely affecting prices of primary and manufactured products (including agricultural products), and to increase tax collections and reduce Argentina’s fiscal deficit, the Argentine government has imposed new taxes on exports. Pursuant to Resolution No. 11/02 of the Ministry of Economy and Production, as amended by Resolution 35/02, 160/2002, 307/2002 and 530/2002, effective as of March 5, 2002, the Argentine government imposed a 20%, 10% and 5% export tax on primary and manufactured products. On November 12, 2005, pursuant to Resolution No. 653/2005, the Ministry of Economy and Production increased the tax on beef cattle exports from 5% to 10%, and on January 2007 increased the tax on soybean exports from 23.5% to 27.5%. Pursuant to Resolutions No. 368/07 and 369/07 both dated November 12, 2007, the Ministry of Economy and Production further increased the tax on soybean exports from 27.5% to 35.0% and also the tax on wheat and corn exports from 20.0% to 28.0% and from 20.0% to 25.0%, respectively. Export taxes might have a material and adverse effect on our sales. We produce exportable goods and, therefore, an increase in export taxes is likely to result in a decrease in our products’ price, and, therefore, may result in a decrease of our sales. We cannot guarantee the impact of those or any other future measures that might be adopted by the Argentine government on our financial condition and result of operations. Government intervention in our markets may have a direct impact on our prices. The Argentine government has set certain industry market conditions and prices in the past. In order to prevent a substantial increase in the price of basic products as a result of inflation, the Argentine government is adopting an interventionist policy. In March 2002, the Argentine government fixed the price for milk after 21 Table of Contents a conflict among producers and the government. During 2005, the Argentine government adopted measures in order to increase the domestic availability of beef and reduce domestic prices. The Argentine government increased the withholding rate and established a minimum weight requirement for animals to be slaughtered. In March 2006, the foreign sales of cuts of beef cattle were momentarily suspended. The latter measure was softened once prices decreased. There can be no assurance that the Argentine government will not interfere in other areas by setting prices or regulating other market conditions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to freely negotiate all our products’ prices in the future or that the prices or other market conditions that the Argentine government could impose will allow us to freely negotiate the price of our products. We may increase our crop price risk since we could have a long position in crop derivatives. In order to improve the use of land and capital allocation, we may have a long position in crops in addition to our own production. This strategy increases our crop price risk, generating material losses in a downward market. We do not maintain insurance on our crop storage facilities; therefore, if a fire or other disaster damages some or all of our harvest, we will not receive any compensation. We store a significant portion of our grain production during harvest due to the seasonal drop in prices that normally occurs at that time. Currently, we have approximately 15,341 tons of storage capacity at various farms and plan to further increase our storage capacity. We do not maintain insurance on our storage facilities. Although our storage capacity is in several different locations, and it is unlikely that a natural disaster affects all of our silos simultaneously, a fire or other natural disaster which damages the stored grain, particularly if such event occurs shortly after harvesting, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Worldwide competition in the markets for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We experience substantial worldwide competition in each of our markets and in many of our product lines. The market for cereals, oil seeds and by-products is highly competitive and also sensitive to changes in industry capacity, producer inventories and cyclical changes in the world’s economies, any of which may significantly affect the selling prices of our products and thereby our profitability. Due to the fact that many of our products are agricultural commodities, they compete in the international markets almost exclusively on the basis of price. Many other producers of these products are larger than us, and have greater financial and other resources. Moreover, many other producers receive subsidies from their respective countries while we do not receive any such subsidies from the Argentine government. These subsidies may allow producers from other countries to produce at lower costs than us and/or endure periods of low prices and operating losses for longer periods than we can. Any increased competitive pressure with respect to our products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with our customers, particularly with the single customer who purchases our entire raw milk production each month, our business may be adversely affected. Though our cattle sales are diversified, we are and will continue to be significantly dependent on a number of third party relationships, mainly with our customers for crop and milk sales. In 2007, we sold our products to approximately 140 customers. Sales to our ten largest customers represented approximately 71% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. Of these customers, our biggest three customers, Cargill S.A., Mastellone Hnos. S.A. and Quickfood S.A, represented, in the aggregate, approximately 46% of our net sales, while the remaining seven customers in the aggregate represented approximately 26% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. In addition, we currently sell our entire raw milk production to one customer in Argentina, Mastellone Hnos. S.A. For the year ended June 30, 2007, these sales represented approximately 8.8% of our total revenues. There can be no assurance that this customer will continue to purchase our entire raw milk production or that, if it fails to do so, we could enter into satisfactory sale arrangements with new purchasers in the future. 22 Table of Contents We sell our crop production mainly to exporters and manufacturers that process the raw materials to produce meal and oil, products that are sent to the export markets. The Argentine crop market is characterized by a few purchasers and a great number of sellers. Although most of the purchasers are international companies with strong financial conditions, we cannot assure you that this situation will remain the same in the future or that this market will not get more concentrated in the future. We may not be able to maintain or form new relationships with customers or others who provide products and services that are important to our business. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our existing or prospective relationships will result in sustained business or the generation of significant revenues. Our business is seasonal, and our revenues may fluctuate significantly depending on the growing cycle. Our agribusiness business is highly seasonal in nature. The harvest and sale of crops (corn, soybean and sunflower) generally occurs from February to June. Wheat is harvested from December to January. Our operations and sales are affected by the growing cycle of the crops we process and by decreases during the summer in the price of the cattle we fatten. As a result, our results of operations have varied significantly from period to period, and are likely to continue to vary, due to seasonal factors. Our principal shareholder has the ability to direct our business and affairs, and its interests could conflict with yours. As of November 30, 2007, our largest shareholder, Mr. Eduardo S. Elsztain, was the beneficial owner of 31.8% of our common shares. As of November 30, 2007, such beneficial ownership consisted of 102,013,754 of our common shares owned through Inversiones Financieras del Sur S.A., or “IFISA,” a company of which, our director, Mr. Elsztain is the largest beneficial owner. As a result of his significant influence over us, Mr. Elsztain, through IFISA, has been able to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, direct our management and determine the result of substantially all resolutions that require shareholders’ approval, including fundamental corporate transactions and our payment of dividends by us. The interests of our principal shareholder and management may differ from, and could conflict with, those of our other shareholders. Pursuant to a consulting agreement we pay a management fee equal to 10% of our annual net income to Consultores Asset Management S.A., formerly known as Dolphin Fund Management S.A. (“Consultores Asset Management”), a company whose capital stock is 85% owned by Eduardo Elsztain and 15% owned by Saúl Zang, the first vice-chairman of our board of directors. This performance based fee could be viewed as an incentive for Consultores Asset Management to favor riskier or more speculative investments than would otherwise be the case. In addition, as of November 30, 2007 Mr. Elsztain was the beneficial owner, due to his indirect shareholding through Cresud of approximately 35.8% of the common shares of IRSA, an Argentine company that currently owns approximately 62.5% of the common shares of its subsidiary Alto Palermo whose chief executive officer is Mr. Alejandro G. Elsztain, Mr. Eduardo Elsztain’s brother and our chief executive officer of Cresud. We cannot assure you that our principal shareholders will not cause us to forego business opportunities that their affiliates may pursue or to pursue other opportunities that may not be in our interest, all of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common shares and the ADSs. We depend on our chairman and senior management. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued employment of Eduardo S. Elsztain, our president and chairman of the board of directors, and Alejandro G. Elsztain, our chief executive officer. The loss of their services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our current principal shareholders were to lose their influence on the management of our business, our principal executive officers could resign or be removed from office. Our future success also depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel, or that any of our personnel will remain employed by us. 23 Table of Contents The Investment Company Act may limit our future activities. Under Section 3(a)(3) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, an investment company is defined in relevant part to include any company that owns or proposes to acquire investment securities that have a value exceeding 40% of such company’s unconsolidated total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items). Investments in minority interests of related entities as well as majority interests in consolidated subsidiaries which themselves are investment companies are included within the definition of “investment securities” for purposes of the 40% limit under the Investment Company Act. Companies that are investment companies within the meaning of the Investment Company Act, and that do not qualify for an exemption from the provisions of such Act, are required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are subject to substantial regulations with respect to capital structure, operations, transactions with affiliates and other matters. In the event such companies do not register under the Investment Company Act, they may not, among other things, conduct public offerings of their securities in the United States or engage in interstate commerce in the United States. Moreover, even if we desired to register with the Commission as an investment company, we could not do so without an order of the Commission because we are a non-U.S. corporation, and it is unlikely that the Commission would issue such an order. In recent years we have made a significant minority investment in the capital stock of IRSA, an Argentine company engaged in a range of real estate activities. As of September 30, 2007, we owned approximately 31.9% of IRSA’s outstanding shares. As of June 30, 2007, our total investment in IRSA represented approximately 35.7% of our total assets. Although we believe we are not an “investment company” for purposes of the Investment Company Act, our belief is subject to substantial uncertainty, and we cannot give you any assurance that we would not be determined to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. As a result, the uncertainty regarding our status under the Investment Company Act may adversely affect our ability to offer and sell securities in the United States or to U.S. persons. The United States capital markets have historically been an important source of funding for us, and our future financing ability may be adversely affected by a lack of access to the United States capital markets. If an exemption under the Investment Company Act is unavailable to us in the future and we desire to access the U.S. capital markets, our only recourse would be to file an application to the SEC for an exemption from the provisions of the Investment Company Act which is a lengthy and highly uncertain process. Moreover, if we offer and sell securities in the United States or to U.S. persons and we were deemed to be an investment company and not exempted from the application of the Investment Company Act, contracts we enter into in violation of, or whose performance entails a violation of, the Investment Company Act, including any such securities, may not be enforceable against us. We hold Argentine securities which are more volatile than U.S. securities and carry a greater risk of default. We currently have and in the past have had certain investments in Argentine government debt, corporate debt, and equity securities. In particular, we hold a significant interest in IRSA, an Argentine company that has suffered material losses, particularly during fiscal years 2001 and 2002. Although our holding of these investments, excluding IRSA, tends to be short term, investments in such securities involve certain risks, including: • market volatility, higher than those typically associated with U.S. government and corporate securities; and • loss of principal. Some of the issuers in which we have invested and may invest, including the Argentine government, have in the past experienced substantial difficulties in servicing their debt obligations, which have led to the restructuring of certain indebtedness. We cannot assure that the issuers in which we have invested or may invest will not be subject to similar or other difficulties in the future which may adversely affect the value of our investments in such issuers. In addition, such issuers and, therefore, such investments, are generally subject to many of the risks that are described in this section with respect to us, and, thus, could have little or no value. 24 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by our investment in IRSA if IRSA’s value decreases. We currently own 34.4% of IRSA’s outstanding shares. As of June 30, 2007, we owned 25.0% of IRSA’s outstanding shares which represented an investment of Ps.344.6 million through the purchase of shares and the conversion of convertible notes. In addition, as of such date, we owned 12.5 million of IRSA’s warrants. As of June 30, 2007, our investment in IRSA was Ps.382.1 million, representing 35.7% of our total consolidated assets. Our investment in IRSA is subject to risks common to investments in commercial and residential properties in general, many of which are not within IRSA’s control. Any one or more of these risks might materially and adversely affect IRSA’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The yields available from equity investments in real estate depend on the level of sales or rental income generated and expenses incurred. In addition, other factors may affect the performance and value of a property adversely, including local economic conditions where the properties are located, macroeconomic conditions in Argentina and the rest of the world, competition from other real estate developers, IRSA’s ability to find tenants, tenant default or rescission of leases, changes in laws and governmental regulations (including those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes), changes in interest rates (including the risk that increased interest rates may result in decreased sales of lots in the residential development properties) and the availability of financing. IRSA may also be unable to respond effectively to adverse market conditions or may be forced to sell one or more of its properties at a loss because the real estate market is relatively illiquid. Certain significant expenditures, such as debt service, real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced in circumstances resulting in a reduction in income from the investment. It is possible that these or other factors or events will impair IRSA’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of its investments, causing a material decline in IRSA’s financial condition or results of operations which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. While IRSA’s share price increased during fiscal years 2005 and 2006, we cannot assure you that the share price will not decline in the future. Given the relative size of our investment in IRSA, any decline could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be materially and adversely affected by our investment in BrasilAgro. As of June 30, 2007, our investment in BrasilAgro represented 6.4% of our total consolidated assets. BrasilAgro was formed on September 23, 2005 to exploit opportunities in the Brazilian agricultural sector. BrasilAgro seeks to acquire and develop future properties to produce a diversified range of agricultural products (which may include sugarcane, grains, cotton, forestry products and livestock). BrasilAgro is a startup company that has been operating for one year. As a result, it has a developing business strategy and limited track record. BrasilAgro’s business strategy may not be successful, and if not successful, BrasilAgro may be unable to successfully modify its strategy. BrasilAgro’s ability to implement its proposed business strategy may be materially and adversely affected by many known and unknown factors. If we were to write-off our investments in BrasilAgro, this would likely materially and adversely affect our business. As of June 30, 2007, we owned 7.4% of the outstanding common shares of BrasilAgro. We may invest in countries other than Argentina and Brazil and cannot give you any current assurance as to the countries in which we will ultimately invest, and we could fail to list all risk factors for each possible country. We have a broad and opportunistic business strategy and you should understand that we may invest in countries other than Argentina and Brazil including countries in other emerging markets outside Latin America such as Africa. As a result, it is not possible at this time to identify all risk factors that may affect our future operations and the value of our common shares and ADSs. 25 Table of Contents We will be subject to extensive environmental regulation. Our activities are subject to a wide set of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which impose various environmental obligations. Obligations include compulsory maintenance of certain preserved areas in our properties, management of pesticides and associated hazardous waste and the acquisition of permits for water use. Our proposed business is likely to involve the handling and use of hazardous materials that may cause the emission of certain regulated substances. In addition, the storage and processing of our products may create hazardous conditions. We could be exposed to criminal and administrative penalties, in addition to the obligation to remedy the adverse affects of our operations on the environment and to indemnify third parties for damages, including the payment of penalties for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Since environmental laws and their enforcement are becoming more stringent in Argentina, our capital expenditures and expenses for environmental compliance may substantially increase in the future. In addition, due to the possibility of future regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of environmental-related capital expenditures and expenses may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. The cost of compliance with environmental regulation may result in reductions of other strategic investments which may consequently decrease our profits. Any material unforeseen environmental costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. As of June 30, 2007, we owned land reserves in excess of 329,828 hectares, most of which is located in under-utilized areas where agricultural production is not fully developed. Existing or future environmental regulations may prevent us from completely developing our land reserves, requiring us to maintain a portion of such land as unproductive land reserves. In accordance with legislative requirements, we have applied for approval to develop parts of our land reserves, to the extent allowed. We cannot assure you that current or future development applications will be approved, and if so, to what extent we will be allowed to develop our land. Increased energy prices could adversely affect our operations. We require substantial amounts of fuel oil and other resources for our harvest activities and transport of our agricultural products. We rely upon third parties for our supply of the energy resources consumed in our operations. The prices for and availability of energy resources may be subject to change or curtailment, respectively, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, worldwide price levels and market conditions. The prices of various sources of energy may increase significantly from current levels. An increase in energy prices could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to IRSA’s Business IRSA’s performance is subject to risks associated with its properties and with the real estate industry. IRSA’s economic performance and the value of its real estate assets, and consequently the value of its securities, are subject to the risk that if IRSA properties do not generate sufficient revenues to meet its operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, IRSA’s cash flow and ability to pay distributions to its shareholders will be adversely affected. Events or conditions beyond IRSA’s control that may adversely affect IRSA’s operations or the value of its properties include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; • volatility and decline in discretionary spending; • competition from other office, industrial and commercial buildings; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for office, or other commercial or industrial space; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; 26 Table of Contents • the exercise by its tenants of their legal right to early termination of their leases; • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; • increased operating costs, including insurance expense, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; • declines in the financial condition of IRSA’s tenants and IRSA’s ability to collect rents from its tenants; • changes in IRSA’s ability or its tenants’ ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance, possibly decreasing the useful life of and revenue from property; and • law reforms and governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes). If any one or more of the foregoing conditions were to affect IRSA’s business, it could have a material adverse effect on IRSA’s financial condition and results of operations. IRSA’s investment in property development or redevelopment may be less profitable than IRSA anticipates. IRSA is engaged in the development and construction of office space, retail and residential properties, frequently through third-party contractors. Risks associated with IRSA’s development, re-development and construction activities include the following, among others: • abandonment of development opportunities and renovation proposals; • construction costs of a project may exceed its original estimates for reasons including raises in interest rates or increases in the costs of materials and labor, making a project unprofitable; • occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, resulting in lower than projected rental rates and a corresponding lower return on IRSA’s investment; • pre-construction buyers may default on their purchase contracts or units in new buildings may remain unsold upon completion of construction; • the unavailability of favorable financing alternatives in the private and public debt markets; • sale prices for residential units may be insufficient to cover development costs; • construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; and 27 Table of Contents • IRSA may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or IRSA may be affected by building moratoria and anti-growth legislation. The real estate industry in Argentina is increasingly competitive. IRSA’s real estate and construction activities are highly concentrated in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area, where the real estate market is highly competitive due to a scarcity of properties in sought-after locations and the increasing number of local and international competitors. Furthermore, the Argentine real estate industry is generally highly competitive and fragmented and does not have high-entry barriers restricting new competitors from entering the market. The main competitive factors in the real estate development business include availability and location of land, price, funding, design, quality, reputation and partnerships with developers. A number of residential and commercial developers and real estate services companies compete with IRSA in seeking land for acquisition, financial resources for development and prospective purchasers and tenants. Other companies, including joint ventures of foreign companies and local companies, have become increasingly active in the real estate business in Argentina, further increasing this competition. To the extent that one or more of IRSA’s competitors are able to acquire and develop desirable properties, as a result of greater financial resources or otherwise, IRSA’s business could be materially and adversely affected. If IRSA is not able to respond to such pressures as promptly as its competitors, or the level of competition increases, IRSA’s financial condition and results of its operations could be adversely affected. In addition, many of IRSA’s shopping centers are located in close proximity to other shopping centers, numerous retail stores and residential properties. The number of comparable properties located in the vicinity of IRSA’s properties could have a material adverse effect on its ability to lease retail space in IRSA’s shopping centers or sell units in its residential complexes and on the rent price or the sale price that IRSA is able to charge. We cannot assure you that other shopping center operators, including international shopping center operators, will not invest in Argentina in the near future. As additional companies become active in the Argentine shopping center market, such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on IRSA’s results of operations. IRSA faces risks associated with property acquisitions. IRSA has in the past acquired, and intends to acquire in the future, properties, including large properties (such as the acquisition of Abasto de Buenos Aires or Alto Palermo Shopping) that would increase IRSA’s size and potentially alter its capital structure. Although IRSA believes that the acquisitions that IRSA has completed in the past and that it expects to undertake in the future, have, and will, enhance IRSA’s future financial performance, the success of such transactions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the risk that: • IRSA may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms; • acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; • the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than IRSA’s estimates; • acquired properties may be located in new markets where IRSA may have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, absence of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and • IRSA may not be able to efficiently integrate acquired properties, particularly portfolios of properties, into its organization and to manage new properties in a way that allows us to realize cost savings and synergies. 28 Table of Contents Some of the land IRSA has purchased is not zoned for development purposes, and IRSA may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining the necessary zoning permits and other authorizations. IRSA owns several plots of land which are not zoned for development purposes or for the type of developments IRSA intends to propose, including Santa María del Plata, Puerto Retiro and Terrenos de Caballito. In addition, IRSA does not yet have the required land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. IRSA cannot assure you that it will continue to be successful in its attempts to rezone land and to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations, or that rezoning efforts and permit requests will not be unreasonably delayed. Moreover, IRSA may be affected by building moratoria and anti-growth legislation. If IRSA is unable to obtain all of the governmental permits and authorizations it needs to develop its present and future projects as planned, IRSA may be forced to make unwanted modifications to such projects or abandon them altogether. Acquired properties may subject IRSA to unknown liabilities. Properties that IRSA acquire may be subject to unknown liabilities for which IRSA would have no recourse, or only limited recourse, to the former owners of such properties. As a result, if a liability were asserted against IRSA based upon ownership of an acquired property, IRSA might be required to pay significant sums to settle it, which could adversely affect its financial results and cash flow. Unknown liabilities relating to acquired properties could include: • liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; • law reforms and governmental regulations (such as those governing usage, zoning and real property taxes); and • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance, and certain kinds of insurance coverage may become prohibitively expensive. IRSA currently carries liability, fire, business interruption, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of its properties. Although IRSA believes the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are generally customary, there are certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims and terrorism and acts of war that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, IRSA could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, IRSA might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of IRSA’s properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt IRSA’s operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. In addition, we cannot assure you that IRSA will be able to renew insurance coverage in an adequate amount or at reasonable prices. Insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. Moreover, IRSA does not purchase life or disability insurance for any of its key employees. If any of IRSA’s key employees were to die or become incapacitated, IRSA could experience losses caused by a disruption in its operations which will not be covered by insurance, and this could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Demand for IRSA’s premium properties which target the high-income demographic may be insufficient. IRSA has focused on development projects intended to cater to affluent individuals and has entered into property swap agreements pursuant to which IRSA contributes its undeveloped properties to ventures with developers who will deliver to IRSA units in full-service apartments in premium locations of downtown Buenos Aires, such as the Renoir towers. These developments are currently estimated to be completed in 2008 and will 29 Table of Contents bring to the market over 11,500 square meters of high quality residential apartments. At the time the developers return these properties to IRSA, demand for premium apartments could be significantly lower than IRSA currently projects. In such case, IRSA would be unable to sell these apartments at the prices or in the time frame IRSA estimated, which could have a material adverse effect on IRSA’s financial condition and results of operations. It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly and transfer restrictions apply to some of IRSA’s properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and this tends to limit IRSA’s ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, IRSA’s business would be adversely affected. A significant portion of IRSA’s properties are mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and if IRSA is unable to meet its mortgage payments, IRSA could lose money as a result of foreclosure on the properties by the various mortgagees. In addition, if it becomes necessary or desirable for IRSA to dispose of one or more of the mortgaged properties, it might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect IRSA’s business. In transactions of this kind, IRSA may also agree, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell the acquired properties for significant periods of time. IRSA’s level of debt may adversely affect its operations and its ability to pay its debt as it becomes due. IRSA has had, and expects to continue to have, substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements to finance its business. As of June 30, 2007, IRSA’s consolidated financial debt was Ps.1,414.5 million (including accrued and unpaid interest and deferred financing costs). The fact that IRSA is leveraged may affect its ability to refinance existing debt or borrow additional funds to finance working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures. This would require IRSA to allocate a substantial portion of cash flow to repay principal and interest, thereby reducing the amount of money available to invest in operations, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. IRSA’s leverage could place IRSA at a disadvantage compared to its competitors who are less leveraged and limit its ability to react to changes in market conditions, changes in the real estate industry and economic downturns. Although IRSA has successfully restructured its debt, we cannot assure you that IRSA will not relapse and become unable to pay its obligations. IRSA may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy its debt service requirements or to obtain future financing. If IRSA cannot satisfy its debt service requirements or if IRSA defaults on any financial or other covenants in its debt arrangements, the holders of IRSA’s debt will be able to accelerate the maturity of such debt or cause defaults under the other debt arrangements. IRSA’s ability to service debt obligations or to refinance them will depend upon its future financial and operating performance, which will, in part, be subject to factors beyond IRSA’s control such as macroeconomic conditions and regulatory changes in Argentina. If IRSA cannot obtain future financing, it may have to delay or abandon some or all of its planned capital expenditures, which could adversely affect IRSA’s ability to generate cash flows and repay its obligations. IRSA is subject to risks inherent to the operation of shopping centers that may affect its profitability. Shopping centers are subject to various factors that affect their development, administration and profitability. These factors include: • the accessibility and the attractiveness of the area where the shopping center is located; • the intrinsic attractiveness of the shopping center; • the flow of people and the level of sales of each shopping center rental unit; 30 Table of Contents • increasing competition from internet sales; • the amount of rent collected from each shopping center rental unit; and • the fluctuations in occupancy levels in the shopping centers. An increase in operating costs, caused by inflation or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on IRSA if its tenants are unable to pay higher rent due to the increase in expenses. Moreover, the shopping center business is closely related to consumer spending and to the economy in which customers are located. All of IRSA’s shopping centers are in Argentina, and, as a consequence, their business could be seriously affected by potential recession in Argentina. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, spending decreased significantly, unemployment, political instability and inflation significantly reduced consumer spending in Argentina, lowering tenants’ sales and forcing some tenants to leave IRSA’s shopping centers. If this were to occur again, it could have a material adverse effect on the revenues from the shopping center activity. The loss of significant tenants could adversely affect both the operating revenues and value of IRSA’s shopping center and other rental properties. If certain of IRSA’s most important tenants were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, or if IRSA simply failed to retain their patronage, its business could be adversely affected. IRSA’s shopping centers and, to a lesser extent, its office buildings are typically anchored by significant tenants, such as well known department stores who generate shopping traffic at the mall. A decision by such significant tenants to cease operations at IRSA’s shopping centers or office buildings could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of the affected segment and, by extension, on IRSA’s financial condition and results of operations. The closing of one or more significant tenants may induce other tenants at an affected property to terminate their leases, to seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the property. If IRSA is not able to successfully lease the affected space again, the bankruptcy and/or closure of significant tenants, could have an adverse effect on both the operating revenues and underlying value of the properties involved. IRSA is subject to payment default risks due to its investments in credit card businesses through its subsidiary Alto Palermo. IRSA’s subsidiary Alto Palermo owns an 80% interest in Tarshop S.A. or “Tarshop”, a credit card company that originates credit card accounts to promote sales from Alto Palermo’s tenants and other selected retailers. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, Tarshop had net revenues of Ps.213.0 million, representing 44.1% of Alto Palermo’s revenues and 28.8% of IRSA’s consolidated revenues for such fiscal year. Credit card businesses such as Tarshop are adversely affected by defaults or late payments by card holders on credit card accounts, difficulties enforcing collection of payments, fraudulent accounts and the writing off of past due receivables. The present rates of delinquency, collection proceedings and loss of receivables may vary and be affected by numerous factors beyond IRSA’s control, which, among others, include: • adverse changes in the Argentine economy; • adverse changes in the regional economies; • political instability; • increases in unemployment; and • erosion of real and/or nominal salaries. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on rates of delinquency, collections and receivables, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of Tarshop’s credit card business. In addition, if IRSA’s credit card business is adversely affected by one or more of the above 31 Table of Contents factors, the quality of IRSA’s securitized receivables is also likely to be adversely affected. Therefore, IRSA could be adversely affected to the extent that IRSA holds an interest in any such securitized receivables. IRSA’s subordinated interest in Tarshop’s securitized assets may have no value. Tarshop S.A., an Alto Palermo subsidiary, is a credit card company that originates credit card accounts to promote sales from Alto Palermo’s tenants and other selected retailers. Tarshop’s accounts receivables, which consist of cash flows from consumer financing and personal loans, are placed into a number of trust accounts that securitize those receivables. Tarshop sells beneficial interests in these trust accounts through the sale of debt certificates, but remains a beneficiary of these trust accounts by holding Ps. 77.8 million in debt certificates as of June 30, 2007. We cannot assure you that collection of payments from credit card accounts will be sufficient to distribute earnings to holders of participation certificates, which would reduce Tarshop’s earnings. In addition, local authorities might increase credit card or trust account regulations, negatively affecting Tarshop’s revenues and results of operation. IRSA is subject to risks affecting the hotel industry. The full-service segment of the lodging industry in which IRSA’s hotels operate is highly competitive. The operational success of IRSA’s hotels is highly dependant on IRSA’s ability to compete in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations, rates, quality food and beverage facilities and other services and amenities. IRSA’s hotels may face additional competition if other companies decide to build new hotels or improve their existing hotels to increase their attractiveness. In addition, the profitability of IRSA’s hotels depends on: • IRSA’s ability to form successful relationships with international and local operators to run its hotels; • changes in tourism and travel patterns, including seasonal changes; and • taxes and governmental regulations affecting wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures and costs. IRSA’s business is subject to extensive regulation and additional regulations may be imposed in the future. IRSA’s activities are subject to federal, state and municipal laws, and to regulations, authorizations and licenses required with respect to construction, zoning, use of the soil, environmental protection and historical patrimony, consumer protection and other requirements, all of which affect IRSA’s ability to acquire land, develop and build projects and negotiate with customers. In addition, companies in this industry are subject to increasing tax rates, the creation of new taxes and changes in the taxation regime. IRSA is required to obtain licenses and authorizations with different governmental authorities in order to carry out its projects. Maintaining IRSA’s licenses and authorizations can be a costly provision. In the case of non-compliance with such laws, regulations, licenses and authorizations, IRSA may face fines, project shutdowns, cancellation of licenses and revocation of authorizations. In addition, public authorities may issue new and stricter standards, or enforce or interpret existing laws and regulations in a more restrictive manner, which may force IRSA to make expenditures to comply with such new rules. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to potential delays or an inability to obtain all necessary zoning, environmental, land-use, development, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Any such delays or failures to obtain such government approvals may have an adverse effect on IRSA’s business. 32 Table of Contents In the past, the Argentine government imposed strict and burdensome regulations regarding leases in response to housing shortages, high rates of inflation and difficulties in accessing credit. Such regulations limited or prohibited increases on rental prices and prohibited eviction of tenants, even for failure to pay rent. Most of IRSA’s leases provide that the tenants pay all costs and taxes related to their respective leased areas. In the event of a significant increase in the amount of such costs and taxes, the Argentine government may respond to political pressure to intervene by regulating this practice, thereby negatively affecting IRSA’s rental income. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not impose similar or other regulations in the future. Changes in existing laws or the enactment of new laws governing the ownership, operation or leasing of properties in Argentina could negatively affect the Argentine real estate market and the rental market and materially and adversely affect IRSA’s operations and profitability. Lease Law No. 23,091 imposes restrictions that limit IRSA’s flexibility. Argentine laws governing leases impose certain restrictions, including the following: • lease agreements may not contain inflation adjustment clauses based on consumer price indexes or wholesale price indexes. Although many of IRSA’s lease agreements contain readjustment clauses, these are not based on an official index nor do they reflect the inflation index. In the event of litigation it may be impossible for us to adjust the amounts owed to IRSA under its lease agreements; • residential leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of two years and retail leases must comply with a mandatory minimum term of three years except in the case of stands and/or spaces for special exhibitions; • lease terms may not exceed ten years, except for leases regulated by Law No. 25,248 (which provides that leases containing a purchase option are not subject to term limitations); and • tenants may rescind commercial lease agreements after the initial six-month period. As a result of the foregoing, IRSA is exposed to the risk of increases of inflation under its leases and the exercise of rescission rights by its tenants could materially and adversely affect IRSA’s business and we cannot assure you that IRSA’s tenants will not exercise such right, especially if rent values stabilize or decline in the future. Eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time consuming. Although Argentine law permits a summary proceeding to collect unpaid rent and a special proceeding to evict tenants, eviction proceedings in Argentina are difficult and time-consuming. Historically, the heavy workloads of the courts and the numerous procedural steps required have generally delayed landlords’ efforts to evict tenants. Eviction proceedings generally take between six months and two years from the date of filing of the suit to the time of actual eviction. Historically, delinquency regarding IRSA’s office rental space has been very low, approximately 2%, and IRSA has usually attempted to negotiate the termination of lease agreements with defaulting tenants after the first few months of non-payment in order to avoid legal proceedings. Delinquency may increase significantly in the future, and such negotiations with tenants may not be as successful as they have been in the past. Moreover, new Argentine laws and regulations may forbid or restrict eviction proceedings, and in such case, they would likely have a material and adverse effect on IRSA’s financial condition and results of operation. IRSA’s assets are concentrated in the Buenos Aires area. IRSA’s principal properties are located in the City of Buenos Aires and the Province of Buenos Aires and a substantial portion of its revenues are derived from such properties. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, more than 87% of IRSA’s consolidated revenues were derived from properties in the Buenos Aires metropolitan 33 Table of Contents area including the City of Buenos Aires. Although IRSA owns properties and may acquire or develop additional properties outside Buenos Aires, IRSA expects to continue to depend to a large extent on economic conditions affecting those areas, and therefore, an economic downturn in those areas could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. IRSA faces risks associated with potential expansion to other Latin American markets. From 1994 to 2002, IRSA had substantial investments outside of Argentina, including Brazil Realty, which was sold in 2002, and Fondo de Valores Inmobiliarios in Venezuela, which was sold in 2001. IRSA continues to believe that Brazil and other Latin American countries offer attractive opportunities for growth in the real estate sector. IRSA will continue to consider investment opportunities outside of Argentina as they arise. Investments in Brazil and other Latin American countries are subject to significant risks including sovereign risks and risks affecting these countries’ real estate sectors. These risks include competition by well-established as well as new developers, unavailability of financing or financing on terms that are not acceptable to IRSA, exchange rate fluctuations, lack of liquidity in the market, rising construction costs and inflation, extensive and potentially increasing regulation and bureaucratic procedures to obtain permits and authorizations, political and economic instability that may result in sharp shifts in demand for properties, risks of default in payment and difficulty evicting defaulting tenants. If the bankruptcy of Inversora Dársena Norte S.A. is extended to IRSA’s subsidiary Puerto Retiro, IRSA will likely lose a significant investment in a unique waterfront land reserve in the City of Buenos Aires. On November 18, 1997, in connection with the acquisition of IRSA’s subsidiary Inversora Bolívar S.A. or “Inversora Bolívar”, IRSA indirectly acquired 35.2% of the capital stock of Puerto Retiro. Inversora Bolívar had purchased such shares of Puerto Retiro from Redona Investments Ltd. N.V. in 1996. In 1999, IRSA, through Inversora Bolívar, increased its interest in Puerto Retiro to 50.0% of its capital stock. On April 18, 2000, Puerto Retiro received notice of a complaint filed by the Argentine government, through the Ministry of Defense, seeking to extend the bankruptcy of Inversora Dársena Norte S.A. (“Indarsa”). Upon filing of the complaint, the bankruptcy court issued an order restraining the ability of Puerto Retiro to dispose of, in any manner, the real property it had purchased in 1993 from Tandanor S.A. (“Tandanor”). Puerto Retiro appealed the restraining order which was confirmed by the court on December 14, 2000. In 1991, Indarsa had purchased 90% of Tandanor, a formerly government owned company, which owned a large piece of land near Puerto Madero of approximately 8 hectares, divided into two spaces: Planta 1 and 2. After the purchase of Tandanor by Indarsa, in June 1993 Tandanor sold “Planta 1” to Puerto Retiro, for a sum of US$18 million pursuant to a valuation performed by J.L. Ramos, a well-known real estate brokerage firm in Argentina. Indarsa failed to pay to the Argentine government the outstanding price for its purchase of the stock of Tandanor. As a result the Ministry of Defense requested the bankruptcy of Indarsa. Since the only asset of Indarsa was its holding in Tandanor, the Argentine government is seeking to extend the bankruptcy to the companies or individuals which, according to its view, acted as a single economic group. In particular, the Argentine government has requested the extension of the bankruptcy to Puerto Retiro which acquired Planta 1 from Tandanor. The time for producing evidence in relation to these legal proceeding has expired. The parties have submitted their closing arguments and are awaiting a final judgment. However, the judge has delayed his decision until a final judgment in the criminal proceedings against the former Defense Minister and former directors of Indarsa has been delivered. We cannot give you any assurance that IRSA will prevail in this proceeding, and if the plaintiff’s claim is upheld by the courts, all of the assets of Puerto Retiro would likely be used to pay Indarsa’s debts and IRSA’s investment in Puerto Retiro, valued at Ps.54.9 million as of June 30, 2007. As of June 30, 2007, IRSA had not established any reserve in respect of this contingency. 34 Table of Contents Property ownership through joint ventures may limit IRSA’s ability to act exclusively in its interest. IRSA develops and acquires properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when it believes circumstances warrant the use of such structures. For example, in the Shopping Center segment, IRSA owns 62.5 % of Alto Palermo, while Parque Arauco S.A. owns 29.5 %. In the Development and Sale segment, IRSA has majority ownership interests in various properties, including 100% ownership of Pereiraola S.A. and 100% of Caballito. IRSA also has ownership of 50% in Puerto Retiro and Cyrsa. In the Hotel operations segment, IRSA owns 50% of the Llao Llao Hotel, while another 50% is owned by the Sutton Group. IRSA owns 80% of the Hotel Libertador, while 20% is owned by Hoteles Sheraton de Argentina S.A. In the financial services sector, IRSA owns 11.8% of Banco Hipotecario, while the Argentine government has a controlling interest in it. IRSA could become engaged in a dispute with one or more of its joint venture partners that might affect its ability to operate a jointly-owned property. Moreover, IRSA’s joint venture partners may, at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with its objectives, including objectives that relate to the timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of a property. For example, the approval of certain of the other investors is required with respect to operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or selling any of these properties. In some instances, IRSA’s joint venture partners may have competing interests in its markets that could create conflicts of interest. If the objectives of IRSA’s joint venture partners are inconsistent with its own objectives, IRSA will not be able to act exclusively in its interests. If one or more of the investors in any of IRSA’s jointly owned properties were to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn of business, there could be an adverse effect on the relevant property or properties and in turn, on IRSA’s financial performance. Should a joint venture partner be declared bankrupt, IRSA could become liable for its partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. IRSA may not be able to recover the mortgage loans it has provided to purchasers of units in its residential development properties. In recent years, IRSA has provided mortgage financing to purchasers of units in its residential development properties. Before January 2002, IRSA’s mortgage loans were U.S. dollar-denominated and accrued interest at a fixed interest rate generally ranging from 10% to 15% per year and for terms generally ranging from one to fifteen years. However, on March 13, 2002, the Central Bank converted all U.S. dollar denominated debts into Peso denominated debts at the exchange rate of Ps.1.00 =US$1.00. In addition, the Central Bank imposed maximum interest rates of 3% for residential mortgage loans to individuals and 6% for mortgage loans to businesses. These regulations adversely affected the U.S. dollar value of IRSA’s outstanding mortgages. Beside risks normally associated with providing mortgage financing, including the risk of default on principal and interest, other regulatory risks such as suspension of foreclosure enforcement proceedings could adversely affect IRSA’s cash flow. Argentine law imposes significant restrictions on IRSA’s ability to foreclose and auction properties. Thus, when there is a default under a mortgage, IRSA does not have the right to foreclose on the unit. Instead, in accordance with Law No. 24,441, in order to reacquire a property IRSA is required to purchase it at a court ordered public auction, or at an out-of-court auction. However, the Public Emergency Law temporarily suspended all judicial and non-judicial mortgage and pledge enforcement actions. Several laws and decrees extended this mortgage foreclosure suspension period. On June 14, 2006, a new suspension period was approved, which established a 180-day suspension period for mortgage foreclosure proceedings affecting debtors’ only dwellings and where the original loan was no higher than Ps.100,000. Law No. 25,798 enacted November 5, 2003, and implemented by Decrees No. 1284/2003 and No. 352/2004, among others, sets forth a system to restructure delinquent mortgage payments to prevent foreclosures on a debtor’s only dwelling (the “Mortgage Refinancing System”). The Mortgage Refinancing System establishes a trust over assets contributed by the Argentine government and income from restructured mortgage loans. Banco de la Nación Argentina, in its capacity as trustee of said trust, enters into debt restructuring agreements with delinquent mortgage debtors establishing the following terms: (i) a grace period on the mortgage loan of one year and (ii) monthly installment payments on the mortgage loan not to exceed 30% of the aggregate income of the family living in the mortgaged property. Banco de la Nación Argentina then 35 Table of Contents subrogates the mortgagee’s rights against the debtor, by issuing notes delivered to the mortgagee to settle the amounts outstanding on the mortgage loan. The sum restructured under the Mortgage Refinancing System may not exceed the appraisal value of the property securing the mortgage after deducting any debts for taxes and maintenance. The Mortgage Refinancing System was established for a limited period of time, during which parties to a mortgage loan agreement could opt to participate in it. However, it was extended by a number of decrees and laws. Law No. 26,167, enacted in November, 2006 established a special proceeding to replace ordinary trials regarding the enforcement of mortgage loans. Such special proceedings give creditors ten days to inform the debtor of the amounts owed to them and later agree with the debtor on the amount and terms of payment. If the parties fail to reach an agreement, payment conditions are to be determined by the judge. We cannot assure you that laws and regulations relating to foreclosure on real estate will not continue to change in the future or that any changes will not adversely affect IRSA’s business, financial condition or result of operations. IRSA is dependent on its chairman Eduardo Elsztain and certain other senior managers. IRSA’s success depends on the continued employment of Eduardo S. Elsztain, IRSA’s chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board of directors, who has significant expertise and knowledge of IRSA’s business and industry. The loss of or interruption in his services for any reason could have a material adverse effect on its business. IRSA’s future success also depends in part upon IRSA’s ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that IRSA will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. A failure to hire or retain qualified personnel may have a material adverse effect on IRSA’s financial condition and results of operations. IRSA may face potential conflicts of interest relating to its principal shareholders. IRSA’s largest beneficial owner is Mr. Eduardo S. Elsztain, through his indirect shareholding through us. As of November 30, 2007, such beneficial ownership consisted of: (i) 199,312,028 shares held by us, (ii) 7,998,522 shares held by IFISA, (iii) 586,000 shares held by Consultores Venture Capital Limited, a stock corporation organized under the laws of Cayman Islands, (iv) 1,154,279 held by Dolphin Fund PLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of Isle of Man and (v) 311,367 shares held directly by Mr. Elsztain. Conflicts of interest between IRSA’s management, IRSA and IRSA’s affiliates may arise in the performance of IRSA’s respective business activities. As of November 30,2007, Mr. Elsztain also beneficially owned (i) approximately 31.8% of Cresud’s common shares and (ii) approximately 62.5% of the common shares of IRSA’s subsidiary Alto Palermo. Although Mr. Elsztain does not have a majority of IRSA’s shares, he is IRSA’s largest shareholder and exercises substantial influence over IRSA. If Mr. Elsztain were considered the beneficial owner of IRSA due to his substantial influence over IRSA, he would be the beneficial owner of 62.5% of IRSA’s subsidiary Alto Palermo shares. We cannot assure you that IRSA’s principal shareholders and their affiliates will not limit or cause IRSA to forego business opportunities that their affiliates may pursue or that the pursuit of other opportunities will be in IRSA’s interest. Due to the currency mismatches between its assets and liabilities, IRSA has significant currency exposure. As of June 30, 2007, the majority of IRSA’s liabilities, such as its unsecured loan agreement, IRSA’s Series 3 secured floating rate notes due 2009, IRSA’s 8.5% notes due 2017, Alto Palermo’s Series I Notes , the mortgage loan to IRSA’s subsidiary Hoteles Argentinos S.A., IRSA’s convertible notes and Alto Palermo’s convertible notes are denominated in U.S. dollars while IRSA’s revenues and most of its assets as of June 30, 2007, are denominated in Pesos. This currency gap exposes IRSA to a risk of exchange rate volatility, which would negatively affect its financial results if the dollar were to appreciate against the Peso. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of IRSA’s debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on its results of operation and financial condition and may increase the collection risk of IRSA’s leases and other receivables from its tenants and mortgage debtors, most of whom have Peso-denominated revenues. 36 Table of Contents Risks Relating to IRSA’s Investment in Banco Hipotecario IRSA’s investment in Banco Hipotecario is subject to risks affecting Argentina’s financial system. As of June 30, 2007, IRSA owned 11.8% of Banco Hipotecario which represented 7.3% of IRSA’s consolidated assets at such date. Substantially all of Banco Hipotecario’s operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, the quality of its loan portfolio, its financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on economic and political conditions prevailing in Argentina. The political and economic crisis in Argentina during 2002 and 2003 and the Argentine government’s actions to address it have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial institutions are subject to significant regulation relating to functions that historically have been mandated by the Central Bank and other regulatory authorities. Measures adopted by the Central Bank have had, and future regulations may have, a material adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’s financial condition and results of operations. On July 25, 2003, the Central Bank announced its intention to adopt new capital adequacy requirements that it will implement gradually through to 2009. In addition, the IMF and other multilateral agencies encouraged the Argentine government to impose minimum capital adequacy, solvency and liquidity requirements consistent with international standards, which could impose material operating restrictions on Banco Hipotecario. Laws and decrees implemented during the economic crisis in 2001 and 2002 have substantially altered contractual obligations affecting Argentina’s financial sector. Recently, the Argentine Congress has considered various initiatives intended to reduce or eliminate a portion of the mortgage loan portfolio on the debt owed to Banco Hipotecario. Also, there have been certain initiatives intended to review the terms pursuant to which Banco Hipotecario was privatized. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Argentine legislature will not enact new laws that will have a significant adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’s shareholders’ equity or that the Argentine government would compensate Banco Hipotecario for the resulting loss. These uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the value of IRSA’s investment in Banco Hipotecario. Banco Hipotecario relies heavily on mortgage lending and the value of IRSA’s investment in it depends in part on its ability to implement successfully its new business diversification strategy. Historically, Banco Hipotecario has been engaged exclusively in mortgage lending and related activities. As a result, factors having an adverse effect on the mortgage market have a greater adverse impact on Banco Hipotecario than on its more diversified competitors. Due to its historic concentration in this recession-sensitive sector, Banco Hipotecario is particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic and market conditions in Argentina due to their adverse effect on (i) demand for new mortgage loans and (ii) the asset quality of outstanding mortgage loans. The last economic crisis had a material adverse effect on its liquidity, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, a number of governmental measures that apply to the financial sector have had a material adverse effect particularly on Banco Hipotecario, impairing its financial condition. In light of the economic conditions in Argentina for the foreseeable future, Banco Hipotecario cannot rely exclusively on mortgage lending and related services. Accordingly, Banco Hipotecario has adapted its business strategy to confront the challenges of these new market conditions. Banco Hipotecario’s ability to diversify its operation will depend on how successfully it diversifies its product offerings and transforms itself into a financial institution that no longer relies solely on mortgage lending. In the past years Banco Hipotecario has made several investments that are designed to enable it to develop retail banking activities. Banco Hipotecario must overcome significant challenges to achieve this goal including, among others, its lack of experience and client relationships outside the mortgage sector, the existence 37 Table of Contents of large, well-positioned competitors and significant political, regulatory and economic uncertainties in Argentina. As a result, we cannot give you any assurance that Banco Hipotecario will be successful in developing significant retail banking activities in the foreseeable future, if at all. If Banco Hipotecario is unable to diversify its operations by developing its retail banking activities and other non-mortgage banking activities, the value of IRSA’s substantial investment in Banco Hipotecario would likely be materially and adversely affected. Banco Hipotecario’s mortgage loan portfolio is not adequately indexed for inflation and any significant increase in inflation could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. In accordance with Emergency Decree No. 214/02 and its implementing regulations, pesified assets and liabilities were adjusted for inflation as of February 3, 2002 by application of the Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia, or CER, a consumer price inflation coefficient. On May 6, 2002, the Executive Branch issued a decree providing that mortgages originally denominated in U.S. dollars and converted into Pesos pursuant to Decree No. 214/2002 and mortgages on property constituting a borrower’s sole family residence may be adjusted for inflation only pursuant to a coefficient based on salary variation, the CVS, which during 2002 was significantly less than inflation as measured by the wholesale price index, or WPI. Through December 31, 2002, the WPI and the CVS posted cumulative increases of 118.2% and 0.2%, respectively, and the CER increased 41.4%. During 2003, inflation rose by 4.3% as measured by the WPI, 3.7% as measured by the CER and 15.8% as measured by the CVS. As a result, only 10% of Banco Hipotecario’s mortgage loans are adjusted for inflation in accordance with the CER, 30% are adjusted in accordance with the CVS and 60% remain entirely unindexed. Additionally, pursuant to Law No. 25,796, Section 1, repealed effective April 1, 2004, the CVS as an indexation mechanism applied to the relevant portion of Banco Hipotecario’s mortgages loans. The CVS increased until it was repealed by 5.3%, whereas the increase in CER was 5.5% as of December 31, 2004 and the WPI increased by 7.9%. During 2005 the CER was 11.75% and the WPI 10.7%, while in 2006 the CER and WPI increased by 10.3% and 7.1%, respectively. Argentina’s history prior to the adoption of the Convertibility Law raises serious doubts as to the ability of the Argentine government to maintain a strict monetary policy and control inflation. As a result of the high inflation in Argentina from 2002 onwards, Banco Hipotecario’s mortgage loan portfolio experienced a significant decrease in value and if inflation were to increase significantly once again, it might continue to undergo a major decrease in value. Accordingly, an increase in Banco Hipotecario’s funding and other costs due to inflation might not be offset by indexation, which could adversely affect its liquidity and results of operations. Legislation limiting Banco Hipotecario’s ability to foreclose on mortgaged collateral may have an adverse effect on it. Like other mortgage lenders, the ability to foreclose on mortgaged collateral to recover on delinquent mortgage loans impacts the conduct of Banco Hipotecario’s business. In February 2002, the Argentine government amended Argentina’s Bankruptcy Law, suspending bankruptcies and foreclosures on real estate that constitutes the debtor’s primary residence, initially for a six-month period and subsequently extended until November 14, 2002. Since 2003, the Argentine government has approved various laws that have suspended, in some cases, foreclosures for a period of time in accordance with Law No. 25,972 enacted on December 18, 2004, and, in some cases, temporarily suspended all judicial and non-judicial mortgage and pledge enforcement actions. Several laws and decrees extended this mortgage foreclosure suspension period. Most recently, on June 14, 2006, Argentine Law 26,103 was enacted which established a 180-day suspension period for mortgage foreclosure proceedings affecting debtors where the subject mortgage related to the debtor’s sole residence and where the original loan was not greater than Ps.100,000. Law No. 25,798, enacted November 5, 2003, and implemented by Decrees No. 1284/2003 and No. 352/2004, among others, sets forth a system to restructure delinquent mortgage payments to prevent foreclosures on a debtor’s sole residence (the “Mortgage Refinancing System”). The Mortgage Refinancing System establishes a trust composed of assets contributed by the Argentine government and income from restructured mortgage loans. Banco de la Nación Argentina, in its capacity as trustee of said trust, enters into debt restructuring agreements with delinquent mortgage debtors establishing the following terms: (i) a grace period on the mortgage loan of one year and (ii) monthly installment payments on the mortgage loan not to exceed 30% of the aggregate 38 Table of Contents income of the family living in the mortgaged property. Banco de la Nación Argentina then subrogates the mortgagee’s rights against the debtor, by issuing notes delivered to the mortgagee to settle the amounts outstanding on the mortgage loan. The sum restructured under the Mortgage Refinancing System may not exceed the appraisal value of the property securing the mortgage after deducting any debts for taxes and maintenance. The Mortgage Refinancing System was established for a limited period of time, during which parties to mortgage loan agreements could opt to participate and was subsequently extended by a number of decrees and laws. Law No. 26,167, enacted on November 29, 2006, suspended foreclosures and also established a special proceeding for the enforcement of certain mortgage loans. Such special proceedings give creditors a 10-day period to inform the court of the amounts owed under the mortgage loan. Soon thereafter, the judge will call the parties for a hearing in order to reach an agreement on the amount and terms of payment thereunder. In case of failure by the parties to reach such agreement, they will have a 30-day negotiation period, and if the negotiations do not result in an agreement, then, payment and conditions will be determined by the courts. On November 29, 2006, Law No. 26,177 created the Unidad de Reestructuración, a government agency responsible for the revision of each of the mortgage loans granted by the state-owned Banco Hipotecario Nacional, the predecessor of Banco Hipotecario, before the enactment of the Convertibility Law in 1991. The Unidad de Reestructuración also makes non-binding recommendations to facilitate the restructuring of such mortgage loans. If no agreement is reached, the Unidad de Reestructuración will submit a proposal to the National Congress, which may recommend forgiveness or other write-off of such loans, extensions of their scheduled maturities or other subsidies that adversely affect Banco Hipotecario’s ability to foreclose on such mortgage loans. Recently enacted Law No. 26,313 established mandatory restructuring of certain mortgage loans granted by the former Banco Hipotecario Nacional prior to April 1, 1991. The language of the law is to a certain degree unclear as concern its scope of application. Neither the Ministry of Economy nor the Central Bank have issued corresponding regulations explaining the application of the law as yet. Banco Hipotecario’s management interpretation is that the law only applies to non-performing mortgage loans granted before April 1, 1991, which were already restructured according to former regulations. However, although we regard the following scenario as unlikely, if the regulations to be issued under the law were to interpret or provide that that the new recalculation is applicable to all mortgage loans granted prior to April 1, 1991, including performing loans, depending on the way in which such regulations were made, Banco Hipotecario S.A., as legal successor to the former Banco Hipotecario Nacional, might suffer a material financial loss to the extent that the law has not contemplated the payment of any damages or compensation to the Bank in such regard. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not enact further new laws restricting Banco Hipotecario’s ability to enforce its rights as creditors. Any such limitation on its ability to successfully implement foreclosures could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Banco Hipotecario’s non-mortgage loan portfolio has grown rapidly and is concentrated in the low- and middle-income segments. As a result of Banco Hipotecario’s strategy to diversify its banking operations and develop retail and other non-mortgage banking activities, in recent years its portfolio of non-mortgage loans has grown rapidly. During the period between December 31, 2004 and June 30, 2007, Banco Hipotecario’s portfolio of non-mortgage loans grew 799.3% from Ps.232.2 million to Ps.1,855.9 million. A very substantial portion of its portfolio of non-mortgage loans consists of loans to low- and middle-income individuals and, to a lesser extent, middle-market companies. These individuals and companies are likely to be more seriously affected by adverse developments in the Argentine economy than high income individuals and large corporations. Consequently, in the future Banco Hipotecario may experience higher levels of past due non-mortgage loans that would likely result in increased provisions for loan losses. In addition, large-scale lending to low- and middle-income individuals and middle-market companies is a new business activity for Banco Hipotecario, and as a result its experience and loan-loss data for such loans are necessarily limited. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the levels of past due non-mortgage loans and resulting charge-offs will not increase materially in the future. 39 Table of Contents Given the current valuation criteria of the Central Bank for the recording of BODEN and other public securities on Banco Hipotecario’s balance sheets, its most recent financial statements may not be indicative of its current financial condition. Banco Hipotecario prepares its financial statements in accordance with Central Bank accounting rules which differ in certain material respects from Argentine GAAP. During 2002, Central Bank accounting rules were modified in several respects that materially increased certain discrepancies between Central Bank accounting rules and Argentine GAAP. In accordance with Central Bank accounting rules, Banco Hipotecario’s consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2007 includes US$816.6 million of BODEN issued by the Argentine government as compensation for pesification, as well as an US$84.4 million asset representing its right to acquire additional BODEN. Banco Hipotecario’s consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2007 also includes Ps.218.0 million representing Central Bank borrowings which Banco Hipotecario incurred to finance its acquisition of the additional BODEN. Also, since September 30, 2005 Banco Hipotecario has subscribed BODEN 2012 for US$773.5 million and reduced Central Bank borrowings for Ps.1,844.0 million. Additionally, its most recent consolidated annual income statements include the accrual of interest to be received on BODEN not yet received and interest to be paid adjusted by CER on Central Bank borrowings. In accordance with Central Bank accounting rules, the BODEN reflected on its consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2007 have been recorded at 100% of face value. However, the BODEN are unsecured debt obligations of the Argentine government which has defaulted on a significant portion of its indebtedness although the government is current in respect of payments due on the BODEN and has restructured a substantial portion of its sovereign debt. As of June 30, 2007, the BODEN were not rated and were trading in the secondary market at a price of approximately US$97.20 for every US$100 of outstanding value. Carrying BODEN at a value equal to their full face value, which is in excess of their current market value, has the effect of increasing Banco Hipotecario’s total assets recorded on its consolidated balance sheet. In this important respect, its most recent consolidated audited annual financial statements are not comparable to its historic financial statements and have been prepared according to accounting principles that differ materially from Argentine GAAP. Due to interest rate and currency mismatches of its assets and liabilities, Banco Hipotecario has significant currency exposure. As of June 30, 2007, Banco Hipotecario’s foreign currency-denominated liabilities exceeded its foreign-currency-denominated assets by approximately US$118 million. Substantially all of Banco Hipotecario’s foreign currency assets consist of dollar-denominated BODEN, but Banco Hipotecario’s liabilities in foreign currencies are denominated in both U.S. Dollars and Euros. This currency gap exposes Banco Hipotecario to risk of exchange rate volatility which would negatively affect Banco Hipotecario’s financial results if the U.S. Dollar were to depreciate against the Peso and/or the Euro. We cannot assure you that the U.S. Dollar will not appreciate against the Peso, or that we will not be adversely affected by Banco Hipotecario’s exposure to risks of exchange rate fluctuations. Because of its large holdings of BODEN and guaranteed government loans, Banco Hipotecario has significant exposure to the Argentine public sector. On December 23, 2001, the Argentine government declared the suspension of payments on most of its sovereign debt, which as of December 31, 2001, totaled approximately US$144.5 billion, a substantial portion of which was restructured by the issuance of new bonds in the middle of 2005. Additionally, the Argentine government has incurred, and is expected to continue to incur, significant new debt obligations, including the issuance of compensatory bonds to financial institutions. As of June 30, 2007 Banco Hipotecario had a total of US$901.1 million of BODEN issued by the Argentine Government. At that same date, Banco Hipotecario also had a total of approximately US$0.2 million of guaranteed government loans. Given Banco Hipotecario’s BODEN holdings, Banco Hipotecario has a significant exposure to the Argentine government’s solvency. Further, defaults by the Argentine government on its debt obligations, including the BODEN and other government securities (such as the guaranteed government loans) held by Banco Hipotecario, would materially and adversely affect its financial condition which would in turn affect IRSA’s investment. 40 Table of Contents Banco Hipotecario operates in a highly regulated environment, and its operations are subject to regulations adopted, and measures taken, by the Central Bank, the Comisión Nacional de Valores and other regulatory agencies. Financial institutions are subject to significant regulation relating to functions that historically have been mandated by the Central Bank and other regulatory authorities. Measures adopted by the Central Bank have had, and future regulations may have, a material adverse effect on Banco Hipotecario’s financial condition and results of operations. For example, on July 25, 2003, the Central Bank announced its intention to adopt new capital adequacy requirements that it will implement gradually through to 2009. In addition, the IMF and other multilateral agencies encouraged the Argentine Government to impose minimum capital adequacy, solvency and liquidity requirements consistent with international standards, which could impose material operating restrictions on Banco Hipotecario. Similarly, the Comisión Nacional de Valores, which authorizes Banco Hipotecario’s offerings of securities and regulates the public markets in Argentina, has the authority to impose sanctions on Banco Hipotecario and its board of directors for breaches of corporate governance. Under applicable law, the Comisión Nacional de Valores has the authority to impose penalties that range from minor regulatory enforcement sanctions to significant monetary fines, to disqualification of directors from performing board functions for a period of time, and (in an extreme case) prohibiting issuers from making public offerings, if they were to determine that there was wrongdoing or material violation of law. Although Banco Hipotecario is not currently party to any proceeding before the Comisión Nacional de Valores, we cannot assure you that the Comisión Nacional de Valores will not initiate new proceedings against Banco Hipotecario, its shareholder or directors or impose further sanctions. Commencing in early 2002, laws and decrees have been implemented that have substantially altered the prevailing legal regime and obligations established in contract. In the recent past, various initiatives have been presented to Congress intended to reduce or eliminate the debt owed to Banco Hipotecario on a portion of its mortgage loan portfolio and there were initiatives intended to review the terms pursuant to which Banco Hipotecario Nacional was privatized. As a result, we cannot assure you that the legislative branch will not enact new laws that will have a significant adverse impact on Banco Hipotecario’s shareholders’ equity or that, if this were to occur, the Argentine government would compensate us for the resulting loss. The Argentine government may prevail in all matters to be decided at a Banco Hipotecario’s general shareholders meeting. According to the Privatization Law and Banco Hipotecario’s by-laws, holders of Class A and Class D Shares have special voting rights relating to certain corporate decisions. Whenever such special rights do not apply (with respect to the Class A Shares and the Class D Shares) and in all cases (with respect to the Class B Shares and the Class C Shares), each share of common shares entitles the holder to one vote. Pursuant to Argentine regulations, Banco Hipotecario may not issue new shares with multiple votes. The holders of Class D Shares have the right to elect nine of Banco Hipotecario’s board members and their respective alternates. In addition, for so long as Class A Shares represent more than 42.0% of Banco Hipotecario’s capital, the Class D Shares shall be entitled to three votes per share, provided that holders of Class D Shares will be entitled to only one vote per share in the case of a vote on: • a fundamental change in Banco Hipotecario’s corporate purpose; • a change in Banco Hipotecario’s domicile outside of Argentina; • dissolution prior to the expiration of Banco Hipotecario’s corporate existence; • a merger or spin-off after which Banco Hipotecario would not be the surviving corporation; • a total or partial recapitalization following a mandatory reduction of capital; and 41 Table of Contents • approval of voluntary reserves, other than legally mandated reserves, when their amount exceeds Banco Hipotecario’s capital stock and its legally mandated reserves. In addition, irrespective of what percentage of Banco Hipotecario’s outstanding capital stock is represented by Class A Shares, the affirmative vote of the holders of Class A Shares is required to adopt certain decisions. Class D Shares will not be converted into Class A Shares, Class B Shares or Class C Shares by virtue of their reacquisition by the Argentine government, PPP or Programa de Propiedad Participada (the Shared Property Program) participants or companies engaged in housing development or real estate activities. According to the Privatization Law, there are no restrictions on the ability of the Argentine government to dispose of its Class A shares, and all but one of such shares could be sold to third parties in a public offering. If the Class A shares represent less than 42% of Banco Hipotecario’s total voting stock as a result of the issuance of new shares other than Class A shares or otherwise, the Class D shares IRSA holds will automatically lose their triple voting rights. If this were to occur, IRSA would likely lose its current ability, together with IRSA’s affiliates that also hold Class D shares of Banco Hipotecario, to exercise substantial influence over decisions submitted to the vote of Banco Hipotecario’s shareholders. Banco Hipotecario will continue to consider acquisition opportunities which may not be successful. From time to time in recent years, Banco Hipotecario has considered certain possible acquisitions or business combinations, and Banco Hipotecario expects to continue considering acquisitions that it believes offer attractive opportunities and are consistent with its business strategy. We cannot assure you, however, that Banco Hipotecario will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or that Banco Hipotecario will be able to acquire promising target financial institutions on favorable terms. Additionally, its ability to obtain the desired effects of such acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to successfully complete the integration of those businesses. The integration of acquired businesses entails significant risks, including: • unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems; • problems assimilating or retaining the employees of acquired businesses; • challenges retaining customers of acquired businesses; • unexpected liabilities or contingencies relating to the acquired businesses; and • the possibility that management may be distracted from day-to-day business concerns by integration activities and related problem solving. Risks Related to Our ADSs and Common Shares Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common shares and American Depositary Shares. The market prices of our common shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of common shares or ADSs in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The ADSs are freely transferable under US securities laws, including shares sold to our affiliates. Inversiones Financieras del Sur S.A., which as of November 30, 2007, owned approximately 31.8% of our common shares (or approximately 101,963,754 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 10,196,375 ADSs), is free to dispose of any or all of its common shares or ADSs at any time in its discretion. Sales of a large number of our common shares and/or ADSs would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and the ADS. 42 Table of Contents We are subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States. There is less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange than information publicly available about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. In addition, all listed Argentine companies must prepare their financial statements in accordance with Argentine GAAP and the regulations of the Comisión Nacional de Valores which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. For this and other reasons, the presentation of Argentine financial statements and reported earnings may differ from that of companies in other countries in this and other respects. We are exempted from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempted from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S., limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment. We are a publicly held corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of our directors and our senior managers, and most of our assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such persons or to enforce against us or them, in United States courts, judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. We have been advised by our Argentine counsel, Zang, Bergel & Viñes, that there is doubt as to whether the Argentine courts will enforce to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a US or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against us. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. holders of our equity securities would suffer negative consequences. Based on the current composition of our income and the valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ending June 30, 2007. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in our asset or income composition. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of our income and assets. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for United States tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in that taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. If we own at least 25% by value of the stock of another corporation, we will be treated, for purposes of the PFIC tests, as owning our proportionate share of that other corporation’s assets and receiving our proportionate share of its income. If we become a PFIC, U.S. holders of our equity securities will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for U.S. holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by us or upon a sale or other disposition of our equity securities at a gain, as well as additional reporting requirements. Please see ‘‘Taxation’’ for a more detailed discussion of the consequences if we are deemed a PFIC. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be fewer or less well defined than in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by Argentine corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of our common shares to protect your or their interests in connection with actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well defined under Argentine corporate law than under the laws of those other 43 Table of Contents jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are illegal under Argentine law, the Argentine securities markets are not as highly regulated or supervised as the US securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self–dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Argentina than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Argentina are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Argentine law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes, such as derivative lawsuits and class actions, is less developed under Argentine law than under U.S. law as a result of Argentina’s short history with these types of claims and few successful cases. In addition, there are different procedural requirements for bringing these types of shareholder lawsuits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a US company. Holders of common shares may determine to not pay any dividends. In accordance with Argentine corporate law we may pay dividends to shareholders out of net and realized profits, if any, as set forth in our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. The approval, amount and payment of dividends are subject to the approval by our shareholders at our annual ordinary shareholders meeting. The approval of dividends requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate enough net and realized profits so as to pay dividends or that our shareholders will decide that dividends will be paid. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and by certain loan agreement covenants. In accordance with Argentine corporate law, we may pay dividends in Pesos out of retained earnings, if any, to the extent set forth in our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. In addition, we are party to a loan agreement which imposes restrictions on our ability to pay dividends in excess of US$5 million per calendar year. Risks Related to IRSA’s Global Depositary Shares and the Shares Shares eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of IRSA’s common shares and Global Depositary Shares. The market prices of IRSA’s common shares and GDS could decline as a result of sales by IRSA’s existing shareholders of common shares or GDSs in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it difficult for IRSA to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that IRSA deem appropriate. The GDSs are freely transferable under US securities laws, including shares sold to IRSA’s affiliates. Our company, which as of November 30, 2007, owned approximately 34.4% of IRSA’s common shares (or approximately 199,312,028 common shares which may be exchanged for an aggregate of 19,931,202 GDSs), is free to dispose of any or all of our common shares or GDSs at any time in our discretion. Sales of a large number of IRSA’s common shares and/or GDSs would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of IRSA’s common shares and the GDS. 44 Table of Contents IRSA is subject to certain different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States. There is less publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Bolsa de Comercio de Buenos Aires than information publicly available about domestic issuers of listed securities in the United States and certain other countries. In addition, all listed Argentine companies must prepare their financial statements in accordance with Argentine GAAP and the regulations of the Comisión Nacional de Valores which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. For this and other reasons, the presentation of Argentine financial statements and reported earnings may differ from that of companies in other countries in this and other respects. IRSA is exempted from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and IRSA’s officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempted from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S. limiting their recovery of any foreign judgment. IRSA is a publicly held corporation (sociedad anónima) organized under the laws of Argentina. Most of IRSA’s directors and senior managers, and most of IRSA’s assets are located in Argentina. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon IRSA or such persons or to enforce against IRSA or them, in United States courts, judgments obtained in such courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. IRSA has been advised by their Argentine counsel, Zang, Bergel & Viñes, that there is doubt as to whether the Argentine courts will enforce to the same extent and in as timely a manner as a US or foreign court, an action predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or other foreign regulations brought against such persons or against IRSA. If IRSA is considered to be a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. holders of IRSA’s equity securities would suffer negative consequences. Based on the current and projected composition of IRSA’s income and the valuation of their assets, including goodwill, IRSA do not believe they were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ending June 30, 2007, and IRSA do not currently expect to become a PFIC, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether IRSA is a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, it is possible that IRSA may be a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year due to changes in their asset or income composition or if their projections are not accurate. The volatility and instability of Argentina’s economic and financial system may substantially affect the composition of IRSA’s income and assets and the accuracy of their projections. If IRSA becomes a PFIC, U.S. holders of IRSA’s equity securities will be subject to certain United States federal income tax rules that have negative consequences for U.S. holders such as additional tax and an interest charge upon certain distributions by IRSA or upon a sale or other disposition of IRSA’s equity securities at a gain, as well as additional reporting requirements. You should consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be fewer or less well defined than in other jurisdictions. IRSA’s corporate affairs are governed by their by-laws and by Argentine corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if they were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of IRSA’s common shares to protect your or their interests in connection with actions by IRSA’s board of directors may be fewer and less well defined under Argentine corporate law than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are illegal under Argentine law, the Argentine securities markets are not as highly regulated or supervised as the US securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Argentina than in the United States, putting holders of IRSA’s common shares and GDSs at a potential disadvantage. 45 Table of Contents The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Argentina are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Argentine law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes, such as derivative lawsuits and class actions, is less developed under Argentine law than under U.S. law as a result of Argentina’s short history with these types of claims and few successful cases. In addition, there are different procedural requirements for bringing these types of shareholder lawsuits. As a result, it may be more difficult for IRSA’s minority shareholders to enforce their rights against IRSA or IRSA’s directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a US company. Holders of common shares may determine not to pay any dividends. In accordance with Argentine corporate law IRSA may pay dividends to shareholders out of net and realized profits, if any, as set forth in IRSA’s audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. The approval, amount and payment of dividends are subject to the approval by IRSA’s shareholders at their annual ordinary shareholders meeting. The approval of dividends requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting. As a result, IRSA cannot assure you that they will be able to generate enough net and realized profits so as to pay dividends or that IRSA’s shareholders will decide that dividends will be paid. IRSA’s ability to pay dividends is limited by law, by their by-laws and by certain restrictive covenants in their debt instruments. In accordance with Argentine corporate law, IRSA may pay dividends in Pesos only out of retained earnings, if any, to the extent set forth in IRSA’s audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine GAAP. In addition, IRSA’s ability to pay dividends on their common shares is limited by certain restrictive covenants in their debt instruments. On February 2, 2007, IRSA issued 8.5% notes due 2017 in an aggregate principal amount of US$150.0 million. These bonds contain a covenant limiting their ability to pay dividends which may not exceed the sum of: • 50% of IRSA’s cumulative consolidated net income; or • 75% of IRSA’s cumulative consolidated net income if their consolidated interest coverage ratio for their most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters is at least 3.0 to 1; or • 100% of cumulative consolidated net income if IRSA’s consolidated interest coverage ratio for their most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters is at least 4.0 to 1; or • 100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds (with certain exceptions) and the fair market value of property other than cash received by IRSA or by their restricted subsidiaries from (a) any contribution to IRSA’s equity capital or to the capital stock of their restricted subsidiaries or issuance and sale of IRSA’s qualified capital stock or the qualified capital stock of their restricted subsidiaries subsequent to the issue of IRSA’s notes due 2017, or (b) any issuance and sale subsequent to the issuance of IRSA’s notes due 2017, of their indebtedness, or of the indebtedness of IRSA’s restricted subsidiaries that has been converted into or exchanged for their qualified capital stock. 46 Table of Contents As a result, IRSA cannot give you any assurance that in the future they will pay any dividends in respect of their common shares. 