Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors are important and should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, the following factors could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those reflected in any forward-looking statements of the Company. The factors identified here do not represent an exhaustive list of potential risks involved in our business that are beyond the Company’s control. Outstanding Indebtedness. In order to finance its operations, including costs related to the consummation of various acquisitions, the Company has incurred indebtedness. The Company maintains a $35.0 million secured credit facility with a commercial bank with a maturity date of April 2009 with no 9 Table of Contents outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2005. The Company’s credit facilities are secured by substantially all of its assets as well as the assets of its subsidiaries. In addition to certain financial covenants, the Company’s credit facilities restrict its ability to incur additional indebtedness or pledge assets. As of December 31, 2005, the Company is in compliance with all of the terms of its credit facilities. The Company may not be able to comply with the terms of its credit facilities in the future. In March 2004, the Company issued $40.0 million in 4% unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the “Notes”) in a private placement. The Notes have a three year term, maturing on March 31, 2007 and may be extended another three years at the holders’ option. The Notes are convertible at the holders’ option anytime prior to maturity into shares of the Company’s common stock at $21.33 per share (adjusted for the Company’s three-for-two stock split effected February 3, 2006). The interest rate on the Notes is 4% and is fixed for the entire term. Debt Service Obligations. The Company’s business is subject to all of the risks associated with substantial leverage, including the risk that available cash may not be adequate to make required payments. The Company’s ability to satisfy outstanding debt obligations from cash flow is dependent upon its future performance and is subject to financial, business and other factors, many of which may be beyond its control. In the event that the Company does not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy its repayment obligations, it would be in default under the agreements pursuant to which such obligations were incurred, which would have a material adverse effect on its business. To the extent that the Company is required to use cash resources to satisfy interest payments to the holders of outstanding debt obligations, it will have fewer resources available for other purposes. While the Company has reduced its leverage and improved its liquidity over the past several years, the Company may increase its leverage in the future, whether as a result of operational or financial performance, acquisition or otherwise. Reliance on Major Customers. Sales to the automotive industry accounted for substantially all of the Company’s sales from continuing operations in 2005. In addition, the Company’s automotive sales are highly concentrated among a few major OEMs and Tier I suppliers. Thus, the loss of any significant customer or the failure of any significant customer to pay amounts due to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As is typical in the automotive supply industry, the Company has no long-term contracts with any of its customers. The Company’s customers provide annual estimates of their requirements; however, sales are made on a short-term purchase order basis. There is substantial and continuing pressure from the major OEMs and Tier I suppliers to reduce costs, including the cost of products purchased from outside suppliers. If in the future the Company is unable to generate sufficient production cost savings to offset price reductions, its gross margins could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Acquisitions. The automotive component supply industry is undergoing consolidation as OEMs seek to reduce both their costs and their supplier base. Future acquisitions may be made in order to enable the Company to expand into new geographic markets, add new customers, provide new products, expand manufacturing and service capabilities and increase automotive model penetration with existing customers. The Company may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or in successfully combining operations with such candidates if they are identified. It should be noted that any acquisitions could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including difficulties in assimilation of the acquired company’s operations following consummation of the acquisition, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of producing products we have limited experience with, the potential loss of key customers of the acquired company, and the ability of pre-acquisition due diligence to identify all possible issues that may arise with respect to products of the acquired company. All these acquisition risks could materially and adversely affect the financial performance of the Company. 10 Table of Contents Failure to Obtain Business on New and Redesigned Model Introductions. The Company’s automotive product lines are subject to change as its customers, including both OEMs and Tier I suppliers, introduce new or redesigned products. The Company competes for new business both at the beginning of the development phase of new vehicle models, which generally begins two to five years prior to the marketing of such models to the public, and upon the redesign of existing models. The Company’s sales would be adversely affected if the Company fails to obtain business on new models, fails to retain or increase business on redesigned existing models, if the Company’s customers do not successfully introduce new products incorporating the Company’s products, or if market demand for these new products does not develop as anticipated. Competition. Markets for all of the Company’s products are extremely competitive. The Company competes based upon a variety of factors, including engineering, product design, process capability, quality, cost, delivery and responsiveness. In addition, with respect to certain of the Company’s products, the Company faces competition from divisions of its OEM customers. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by competition, and the Company may not be able to maintain its profitability if the competitive environment changes. Dependence on Continuous Improvement of Production Technologies. The Company’s ability to continue to meet customer demands within its automotive operations with respect to performance, cost, quality and service will depend, in part, upon its ability to remain technologically competitive with its production processes. New automotive products are increasingly complex, require increased welding precision, use of various materials and have to be run at higher production speeds and with lower scrap ratios in order to reduce costs. The investment of significant additional capital or other resources may be required to meet this continuing challenge. If the Company is unable to improve its production technologies, it may lose business and possibly be forced to exit from the particular market. Design and Engineering Resources. Within the automotive industry, OEMs and Tier I suppliers require their suppliers to provide design and engineering input during the product development process. The direct costs of design and engineering are generally borne by the Company’s customers. However, the Company bears the indirect cost associated with the allocation of limited design and engineering resources to such product development projects. Despite the Company’s up-front dedication of design and engineering resources, its customers are under no obligation to order the subject components or systems from the Company following their development. In addition, when the Company deems it strategically advisable, it may also bear the direct up-front design and engineering costs as well. The Company’s dedication of design and engineering resources, or up-front design and engineering expenditures, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. Industry Cyclicality and Seasonality. The automotive industry is highly cyclical and dependent on consumer spending. Economic factors adversely affecting automotive production and consumer spending could adversely impact the Company’s business. In addition, the automotive component supply industry is somewhat seasonal. The Company’s need for continued significant expenditures for capital equipment purchases, equipment development and ongoing manufacturing improvement and support, among other factors, make it difficult for us to reduce operating expenses in a particular period if our net sales forecasts for such period are not met, because a substantial component of our operating expenses are fixed costs. Generally, revenue and operating income increase during the second calendar quarter of each year as a result of the automotive industry’s spring selling season, which is the peak sales and production period of the year. Revenue and operating income generally decrease during July and December of each year as a result of changeovers in production lines for new model years as well as scheduled OEM plant shutdowns for vacations and holidays. The Company’s historical results of operations have generally not reflected typical cyclical or seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating income. The acquisitions and divestitures completed by the Company have resulted in a growth trend through successive periods which has masked the effect of 11 Table of Contents typical seasonal fluctuations. The Company’s business may not continue its historical growth trend, continue to be profitable, or conform to industry norms for seasonality in future periods. U.S. and Global Economic Conditions. Demand in the automotive industry is significantly dependent on the U.S. and the global economies, and the Company’s business and profitability are exposed to current and future uncertainties. Demand in the automotive industry fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels, consumer confidence and fuel costs. The threat or act of terrorism and war, the recession, higher energy costs and other recent developments have adversely affected consumer confidence throughout the U.S. and much of the world, and exacerbated the uncertainty in the Company’s markets. The future impact resulting from changes in economic conditions is difficult to predict. Our results of operations would be harmed by any sustained weakness in demand or continued downturn in the economy. The Company’s sales are impacted by automotive retail inventory levels and production schedules. In recent years, OEM customers have significantly reduced their production and inventory levels due to the uncertain economic environment. It is extremely difficult to predict future production rates and inventory levels for such OEM customers. Any additional decline in production rates and/or inventory levels would adversely affect our operating results. Price Reduction Pressures From Customers. The Company and other suppliers to the automotive markets face continued price reduction pressure from our customers. The U.S.-based OEMs, in particular, have experienced significant market share erosion to non-U.S.-based OEMs over the past few years, thereby putting pressure on their profitability. These OEMs respond by pressuring their suppliers, including the Company, to reduce the prices of products sold to such OEMs. To the extent this trend continues, the price reduction pressures experienced by the Company will be ongoing. While the Company constantly strives to sustain and improve its margins through a variety of efforts, the Company may not be able to maintain or improve its operating results in the face of such price reduction pressures. Risk of Labor Interruptions. Within the automotive supply industry substantially all of the hourly employees of the OEMs and many Tier I suppliers are represented by labor unions, and work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. The failure of any of the Company’s significant customers to reach agreement with a labor union on a timely basis, resulting in either a work stoppage or strike, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. During 1999, production workers at the Company’s facility in Michigan elected to be represented by the UAW. A three-year collective bargaining agreement was entered into in September 2000 and expired in December 2003. In January 2004, the Company entered into a new five-year collective bargaining agreement, which expires in December 2008, with the UAW at its facility in Michigan. The Company’s Mexico facility is represented by the National Union of Employees for the Industry of Manufacturing, Repair and Operation of Heavy Machinery, Equipment, Parts and Components, Similar and Related of the Mexican Republic. The union contract in Mexico is negotiated and renewed on an annual basis. Although neither facility has been subject to a strike, lockout or other major work stoppage, any such incident would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating income. Product Liability Exposure. Within the automotive operations, the Company faces an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if the failure of one of its products results in personal injury or death. Material product liability losses may occur in the future. In addition, if any of the Company’s products prove to be defective, the Company may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. The Company maintains insurance against product liability claims, but there can be no assurance that such coverage may be adequate or may continue to be available to the Company on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could have a material adverse effect on its business. 12 Table of Contents Impact of Environmental Regulation. The Company is subject to the requirements of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Although the Company has made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental requirements, these requirements are constantly evolving, and it is impossible to predict whether compliance with these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company in the future. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from the Company’s properties or from any of its disposals at offsite disposal locations, or if contamination is discovered at any of the Company’s current or former properties, it may be held liable, and the amount of such liability could be material. Dependence on Key Personnel. The Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified employees in the areas of engineering, operations and management, and are greatly influenced by the efforts and abilities of its Chairman and executive officers. The Company has employment agreements with its Chairman and several executive officers. The Company does not maintain key-person life insurance on its executives. In February 2006, Christopher L. Morin resigned as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors. In March 2006, Thomas L. Saeli was appointed Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Saeli has served on the Company’s Board of Directors since 2002 and will remain a member of the Board of Directors. Mr. Saeli entered into an oral employment agreement with the Company in March 2006. Control by Existing Stockholders. Robert J. Skandalaris owns and/or controls approximately 17% of the outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Skandalaris is able to exert significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of the Company’s stockholders, including the election of directors, amendments to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such consolidation of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control that might be beneficial to other stockholders. Anti-Takeover Provisions. Certain provisions of the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may inhibit changes in control of the Company not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions include: (i) a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents; (ii) a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the Board of Directors; (iii) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; (iv) limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the Bylaws; and (v) the authority of the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The Company will also be afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have similar effects. Risks Associated With International Operations. The Company operates international production facilities in Canada, Australia and Mexico. The Company’s business strategy may include the continued expansion of international operations. As the Company expands its international operations, it will increasingly be subject to the risks associated with such operations, including: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements; (iii) restrictions on the repatriation of funds; (iv) inflationary conditions; (v) political and economic instability; (vi) war or other hostilities; (vii) overlap of tax structures; and (viii) expropriation or nationalization of assets. The inability to effectively manage these and other risks could adversely affect the Company’s business. Shares Eligible for Future Sale. The Company cannot predict the effect that future sales of its common stock will have on the market price of the Company’s common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. On January 10, 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized and declared a three-for-two stock split of the Company’s common stock to shareholders of record on January 27, 2006, effected on February 3, 2006 (the “Stock Split”). As a result of the Stock Split, the 13 Table of Contents total float of the Company’s shares of common stock increased proportionately, thereby increasing the potential future sales of common stock. Approximately 18% of the shares of common stock currently issued and outstanding are “restricted securities” as that term is defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be sold unless they are registered or unless an exemption from registration, such as the exemption provided by Rule 144, is available. All of these restricted securities are currently eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144, subject in most cases to the volume and manner of sale limitations prescribed by Rule 144. Possible Volatility of Trading Price. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the automotive industry, general economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and changes in securities analysts’ recommendations regarding the Company’s securities. Such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Failure of SET Enterprises, Inc. (“SET”) could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. In February 2001, the Company sold two of its non-core subsidiaries to SET, a qualified minority business enterprise providing metal processing services to the automotive OEMs. The Company currently holds $7.6 million in face value of 8% Series A non-convertible, non-voting SET preferred stock and 4% of the issued and outstanding shares of SET common stock. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recognized a $7.9 million impairment charge related to the SET investments based upon management’s estimate of fair value of these investments using a discounted cash flow model and other fair value tools in conjunction with SET’s current and projected financial performance. In addition, the Company provides a $3.0 million guarantee of SET’s senior debt. The failure of SET’s business could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition if it resulted in SET’s inability to pay dividends or its senior debt resulting in the Company’s requirement to perform under the guarantee. In addition, the Company’s relationship with SET provides minority content in product sold to certain OEMs. These OEMs use a supplier’s percentage of minority content as a consideration when awarding new business. To the extent that the Company could not replace minority content provided by SET with content from another minority business enterprise, the failure of SET could affect the future award of new business to the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 