ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a substantial level of indebtedness, a large portion of which we will need to refinance in the next three years. In the event we are not able to refinance or repay such indebtedness, we may not be able to access the cash flow from all of our towers and we may need to take certain actions to service our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness (approximately $2.55 billion as of December 31, 2008), and we anticipate refinancing a significant amount of this indebtedness within the next three years. As of February 24, 2009, we had $2.0 billion of indebtedness outstanding that has an initial or anticipated maturity date within the next three years, including $391.8 million of our 2005 Commercial Mortgage-Backed Pass-Through Certificates (which have an anticipated repayment date of November 2010), $1.1 billion of our 2006 Commercial Mortgage-Backed Pass-Through Certificates (which have an anticipated repayment date of November 2011), $104.2 million of 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes due November 2010, $230.6 million of borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $149.0 million under our credit facility assumed in the Optasite acquisition (the “Optasite Credit Facility”) (each facility matures in 2010). If our CMBS Certificates are not fully repaid by their anticipated repayment dates, November 2010 for the 2005 CMBS Certificates and November 2011 for the 2006 CMBS Certificates, then the interest rates on each of the CMBS Certificates, on such date, will increase by the greater of (i) 5% or (ii) the amount, if any, by which the sum of (x) the ten-year U.S. treasury rate plus (y) the credit-based spread for such component (as set forth in the mortgage loan agreement) plus (z) 5%, exceeds the original interest rate for such component. Such additional interest will accrue and be payable once the principal of all CMBS Certificates are repaid. Furthermore, if our 2005 CMBS Certificates are not fully repaid by November 2010, then substantially all of the cash flows from the 4,969 towers owned by the borrowers under the CMBS Certificates will be trapped by the Trustee and applied first to repay the original cash coupons on the CMBS Certificates, then to fund reserves and administrative costs and then to repay principal of the 2005 and the 2006 CMBS Certificates in the order of their investment grade (i.e. the 2005-1A and 2006-1A subclasses would have their respective principal repaid equally prior to repayment of the other subclasses of the CMBS Certificates). If we are unable to repay our 2005 CMBS Certificates on November 2010, then we would only have access to the cash flow generated by the remaining approximately 2,900 towers to repay our other indebtedness and pay all our other corporate expenses. During 2007 a crisis began in the subprime mortgage sector of the U.S. economy as a result of credit quality deterioration and rising delinquencies, and that crisis has continued and strengthened throughout 2008 and into 2009 which has led to continued deterioration of the credit markets, a closing up of the debt markets and widening credit spreads. Also stemming from this crisis, the U.S. economy is undergoing a period of recession, slowdown and high volatility. This crisis has adversely impacted our access to capital, and there can be no assurance that this crisis will not worsen or impact the availability or cost of debt financing in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effect the anticipated refinancing described above on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we cannot guarantee that we will generate enough cash flow from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt obligations and fund our planned capital expenditures. In such event, we might need to sell certain assets or lines of business, issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock to fulfill our debt obligations. If implemented, these actions could negatively impact our business or dilute our existing shareholders. 11 Table of Contents We have a substantial level of indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. As indicated below, we have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness relative to our equity. The following table sets forth our total debt and shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2007 and 2008. As of December 31, 2007 2008 (in thousands) Total indebtedness $ 1,905,000 $ 2,554,660 Shareholders’ equity $ 337,391 $ 491,759 Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts when due. Subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured debt. This may have the effect of increasing our total leverage. As a consequence of our indebtedness, (1) demands on our cash resources may increase, (2) we are subject to restrictive covenants that further limit our financial and operating flexibility and (3) we may choose to institute self-imposed limits on our indebtedness based on certain considerations including market interest rates, our relative leverage and our strategic plans. For example, as a result of our substantial level of indebtedness and the uncertainties arising in the credit markets and the U.S. economy: • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the available cash flow to fund other investments, including capital expenditures; • we have already reduced our annual tower acquisition goals and may, in the future, be required to reduce our annual tower new build goals; • we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or in the industry; • we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and • we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, new tower development, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. In addition, fluctuations in market interest rates may increase interest expense relating to our floating rate indebtedness, which we expect to incur under our senior secured revolving credit facility and our Optasite Credit Facility assumed in the Optasite acquisition and may make it difficult to refinance our existing indebtedness, including our CMBS Certificates at a commercially reasonable rate or at all. There is no guarantee future refinancing of our indebtedness will have fixed interest rates or that interest rates on such indebtedness will be equal to or lower than the rates on our current indebtedness. 12 Table of Contents Any slowdown in demand for wireless communications services or for tower space could adversely affect our future growth and revenues. Demand for antenna space on our towers and for our site development services depends on demand for wireless services. From 2001 through 2003, economic downturns in the U.S. economy, including the wireless telecommunications industry, negatively influenced demand for tower space and site development services. The current economic downturn in the U.S. economy and similar slowdowns in the future may adversely affect: • consumer demand for wireless services; • the financial condition of wireless service providers; • the ability and willingness of wireless service providers to maintain or increase capital expenditures; • the availability and cost of capital, including interest rates; • volatility in the equity and debt markets; and • the willingness of our tenants to renew their leases for additional terms. As a result of these factors wireless service providers may delay or abandon implementation of new systems and technologies, including 3G, 4G or other wireless services or, worse, elect not to renew existing antenna leases in order to reduce operating expenses. We may not secure as many site leasing tenants as planned or our lease rates for new tenant leases may decline. If tenant demand for tower space or our lease rates on new leases decrease, we may not be able to successfully grow our site leasing business as expected. This may have a material adverse effect on our strategy, revenue growth and our ability to satisfy our financial and other contractual obligations. Our plan for the growth of our site leasing business largely depends on our management’s expectations and assumptions concerning future tenant demand and potential lease rates for our towers. If our wireless service provider customers combine their operations to a significant degree, our growth, our revenue and our ability to service our indebtedness could be adversely affected. Demand for our services may decline if there is additional significant consolidation among our wireless service provider customers as they may then reduce capital expenditures in the aggregate or fail to renew existing leases for tower space because many of their existing networks and expansion plans may overlap. As a result of regulatory changes in January 2003 which removed prior restrictions on wireless service providers from owning more than 45 MHz of spectrum in any given geographical area, there have been significant consolidations of the large wireless service providers. Specifically, Cingular acquired AT&T Wireless in October 2004 and Sprint PCS and Nextel merged to form Sprint Nextel Corporation in August 2005. As a result of the Cingular/AT&T Wireless merger, as of December 31, 2008, AT&T had terminated 307 tenant leases with us, which had $7.7 million of annualized rental revenue, on towers where both Cingular and AT&T Wireless had previously had antennas. In addition, AT&T did not renew certain tenant leases for other communication sites in close proximity to the extent that it believed it did not need the additional capacity. Although we have not currently experienced any significant amount of churn as a result of the Sprint/Nextel merger, due primarily to the different technologies utilized and their decision to operate two networks, we may in the future experience terminations and/or non-renewals due to this merger. Furthermore, to the extent that other wireless service providers consolidate in the future, they may not renew any duplicative leases that they have on our towers and/or may not lease as much space on our towers in the future. This would adversely affect our growth, our revenue and our ability to service our indebtedness. 13 Table of Contents Similar consequences may occur if wireless service providers engage in extensive sharing or roaming or resale arrangements as an alternative to leasing our antenna space. Wireless voice service providers frequently enter into roaming agreements with competitors allowing them to use another’s wireless communications facilities to accommodate customers who are out of range of their home provider’s services. Wireless voice service providers may view these roaming agreements as a superior alternative to leasing antenna space on communication sites owned or controlled by us or others. The proliferation of these roaming agreements could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Delays or changes in the deployment or adoption of new technologies or slowing consumer adoption rates may have a material adverse effect on our growth rate. There can be no assurances that 3G, 4G or other new wireless technologies will be deployed or adopted as rapidly as projected or that these new technologies will be implemented in the manner anticipated. The deployment of 3G has already experienced significant delays from the original projected timelines of the wireless and broadcast industries. The announcement of 4G is relatively new and its deployment has been limited to date. Additionally, the demand by consumers and the adoption rate of consumers for these new technologies once deployed may be lower or slower than anticipated. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our growth rate since growth opportunities and demand for our tower space as a result of such new technologies may not be realized at the times or to the extent anticipated. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for most of our revenue, therefore if any of our significant customers reduced their demand for tower space or became financially unstable it may materially decrease our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers. The loss of any one of our significant customers, as a result of bankruptcy, merger with other customers of ours or otherwise could materially decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our growth. The following is a list of significant customers (representing at least 10% of revenue in any of the last three years) and the percentage of our total revenues for the specified time periods derived from these customers: Percentage of Total Revenuesfor the year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 Sprint 27.6 % 30.5 % 23.2 % AT&T 21.4 % 21.0 % 21.3 % Verizon Wireless 9.7 % 9.7 % 11.2 % 14 Table of Contents We also have client concentrations with respect to revenues in each of our financial reporting segments: Percentage of Site Leasing Revenuesfor the year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 AT&T 26.7 % 25.6 % 25.3 % Sprint 26.2 % 26.5 % 25.1 % Verizon Wireless 9.7 % 10.0 % 11.1 % Percentage of Site DevelopmentConsulting Revenuesfor the year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 Verizon Wireless 26.6 % 17.4 % 24.1 % Sprint 38.0 % 59.7 % 22.9 % Metro PCS 0.7 % 3.9 % 13.3 % Percentage of Site DevelopmentConstruction Revenuesfor the year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 T-Mobile 4.6 % 5.8 % 15.8 % Metro PCS 0.2 % 1.1 % 11.9 % Sprint 30.0 % 39.8 % 10.8 % Revenue from these clients is derived from numerous different site leasing contracts and site development contracts. Each site leasing contract relates to the lease of space at an individual tower site and is generally for an initial term of five years renewable for five 5-year periods at the option of the tenant. However, if any of our significant site leasing clients were to experience financial difficulty, substantially reduce their capital expenditures or reduce their dependence on leased tower space and fail to renew their leases with us, our revenues, future revenue growth and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our site development customers engage us on a project-by-project basis, and a customer can generally terminate an assignment at any time without penalty. In addition, a customer’s need for site development services can decrease, and we may not be successful in establishing relationships with new customers. Furthermore, our existing customers may not continue to engage us for additional projects. Increasing competition in the tower industry may adversely affect us. Our industry is highly competitive. Competitive pressures for tenants could adversely affect our lease rates. In addition, the loss of existing customers or the failure to attract new customers would lead to an accompanying adverse effect on our revenues, margins and financial condition. In the site leasing business, we compete with: • wireless service providers that own and operate their own towers and lease, or may in the future decide to lease, antenna space to other providers; • other large independent tower companies; 15 Table of Contents • smaller local independent tower companies; and • alternative facilities such as rooftops, broadcast towers and utility poles. There has been significant consolidation among the large independent tower companies in the past three years. Specifically, American Tower Corporation completed its merger with SpectraSite, Inc. in 2005, we completed our acquisition of AAT Communication Corporation in 2006 and Crown Castle International completed its merger with Global Signal, Inc. in 2007. As a result of these consolidations, American Tower and Crown Castle are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than us. This could provide them with advantages with respect to establishing favorable leasing terms with wireless service providers or in their ability to acquire available towers. Wireless service providers that own and operate their own tower networks are also generally substantially larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. We believe that tower location and capacity, quality of service, density within a geographic market and, to a lesser extent, price historically have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the site leasing business. The site development segment of our industry is also extremely competitive. There are numerous large and small companies that offer one or more of the services offered by our site development business. As a result of this competition, margins in this segment continue to be under pressure. Many of our competitors have lower overhead expenses and therefore may be able to provide services at prices that we consider unprofitable. If margins in this segment were to further decrease, our consolidated revenues and our site development segment operating profit could be adversely affected. The market price of our Class A common stock could be affected by significant volatility, which could adversely impact our ability to use equity to fund our growth plan. The market price of our Class A common stock has historically experienced significant fluctuations. Since the fall of 2008, the U.S. stock market has been undergoing a period of very high volatility where changes in the market prices of equity securities have often been abrupt and profound over short periods of time. The market price of our Class A common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed elsewhere in “Risk Factors” and in “Forward-Looking Statements.” Volatility or depressed market prices of our Class A common stock could make it difficult for shareholders to resell their shares of Class A common stock, when they want or at attractive prices. Consequently, volatility of the market price of our Class A common stock may make it less likely that sellers will accept our equity as consideration in connection with our tower acquisitions and may make it more difficult for us to use our equity to fund our future growth plans. If we were unable to use equity to fund growth of our tower portfolio, we may be required to either use debt to increase our tower portfolio or reduce our anticipated growth. Counterparties to our convertible note hedge transactions may be unable to fulfill their obligations and such failure could subject us to significant costs to replace any such portion of our convertible note hedge transactions or subject us to potential dilution or additional cost, if settled in cash, upon conversion of our convertible notes. Concurrently with the pricing of our 0.375% Notes and our 1.875% Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with affiliates of certain of the initial purchasers of both convertible note offerings. The initial strike price of the convertible note hedge transactions relating to our 0.375% Notes is $33.56 per share of our Class A common stock (the same as the initial conversion price of the 0.375% Notes) and cover 10,429,720 shares of our Class A common stock. The initial strike price of the convertible note hedge transactions relating to our 1.875% Notes is $41.46 per share of our Class A common stock (the same as the initial conversion price of our 1.875% convertible notes) and cover 13,265,780 shares of our Class A common stock. 16 Table of Contents Since the fall of 2008, global economic conditions and the financial markets have been and continue to be volatile. Certain financial institutions have filed for bankruptcy, have sold some or all of their assets, or may be looking to enter into a merger or other transaction with another financial institution. As a result of these conditions, some of the counterparties to our convertible note hedge transactions may be unable to perform their obligations under such instruments. One of the convertible note hedge transactions entered into in connection with our 1.875% Notes was with Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. (“Lehman Derivatives”) which covers 55% of the 13,265,780 shares of our Class A common stock potentially issuable upon conversion. In October 2008, Lehman Derivatives filed a voluntary petition for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code which constituted an “event of default” under the convertible note hedge transaction with Lehman Derivatives. As a result, on November 7, 2008 we terminated the convertible note hedge transaction with Lehman Derivatives. Based on information available to us, we have no indication, as of the date of filing this Form 10-K, that any party other than Lehman Derivatives would be unable to fulfill their obligations to us under the convertible note hedge transactions. If we were to elect to replace the convertible note hedge transaction with Lehman Derivatives or any other counterparty, we would incur significant costs to replace such hedge transactions. Additionally, if we do not elect to replace our convertible note hedge transactions that were previously with Lehman Derivatives or any other counterparty fails to perform its obligations under our outstanding convertible note hedge transactions, we would be subject to potential dilution or additional cost, if settled in cash, upon conversion of the applicable 0.375% Notes and 1.875% Notes. Increasing competition to acquire existing towers may negatively impact our ability to grow our tower portfolio long-term. Although our current plans only contemplate modest growth of our tower portfolio in 2009, primarily through new tower builds, our ability to achieve material long-term tower portfolio growth will depend on our ability to acquire towers from third parties. Traditionally, our acquisition strategy has focused on acquiring towers from smaller tower companies, independent tower developers and wireless service providers. However, as a result of consolidation in the tower industry there are fewer of these mid-sized tower transactions available and there is more competition to acquire existing towers. Increased competition for acquisitions may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us, higher acquisition prices, reduced willingness of sellers to accept equity as consideration for their towers and increased difficulty in negotiating and consummating agreements to acquire such towers. Furthermore, to the extent that the tower acquisition opportunities are for significant tower portfolios, many of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us. If we are not able to successfully resolve these issues, we may not be able to materially increase our tower portfolio in the long-term. We may not be able to build as many towers as we anticipate. We currently intend to build 80 to 100 new towers during 2009. However, our ability to build these new towers is dependent upon the availability of sufficient capital to fund construction, our ability to locate, and acquire at commercially reasonable prices, attractive locations for such towers and our ability to obtain the necessary zoning and permits. Due to these risks, it may take longer to complete our new tower builds than anticipated, the costs of constructing or acquiring these towers may be higher than we expect or we may not be able to add as many towers as we had planned in 2009. If we are not able to increase our tower portfolio as anticipated, it could negatively impact our ability to achieve our financial goals. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants that could adversely affect our business by limiting our flexibility. Our senior secured revolving credit facility and the Optasite Credit Facility contain certain restrictive covenants. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; 17 Table of Contents • sell assets; • make certain investments; • engage in certain restricted payments from SBA Senior Finance to us; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • incur liens; and • enter into affiliate transactions. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors which may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, new tower development, merger and acquisitions or other opportunities. If we fail to comply with these covenants, it could result in an event of default under the senior secured revolving credit facility. In addition, if we default in the payment of our other indebtedness, including under our CMBS Certificates and our Notes, then such default could cause a cross-default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. The mortgage loan relating to our CMBS Certificates also contains financial covenants that require that the mortgage loan borrowers maintain, on a consolidated basis, a minimum debt service coverage ratio. To the extent that the debt service coverage, as of the end of any calendar quarter, (1) is less than 1.30 times, all cash flow generated by the pledged towers must be deposited into a reserve account and (2) is less than 1.15 times, then an “amortization period” will commence and all funds on deposit in the reserve account will be applied to prepay the mortgage loan until such time as the debt service coverage ratio exceeds 1.15 times for a calendar quarter. As lease payments from 4,969 towers of our total tower portfolio are pledged as collateral under the mortgage loan, if this cash flow was not available to us it would adversely impact our ability to pay our indebtedness, other than the mortgage loan, and to operate our business. New technologies and their use by carriers may have a material adverse effect on our growth rate and results of operations. The emergence of new technologies could reduce the demand for space on our towers. For example, the increased use by wireless service providers of signal combining and related technologies and products that allow two or more wireless service providers to provide services on different transmission frequencies using the same communications antenna and other facilities normally used by only one wireless service provider could reduce the demand for our tower space. Additionally, the use of technologies that enhance spectral capacity, such as beam forming or “smart antennae,” that can increase the range and capacity of an antenna could reduce the number of additional sites a wireless service provider needs to adequately serve a certain subscriber base and therefore reduce demand for our tower space. The development and growth of communications and other new technologies that do not require ground-based sites, such as the growth in delivery of video, voice and data services by satellites or other technologies, could also adversely affect the demand for our tower space. Our dependence on our subsidiaries for cash flow may negatively affect our business. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own. Our only significant asset is and is expected to be the outstanding capital stock and membership interests of our subsidiaries. We conduct, and expect to conduct, all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to pay our obligations is dependent upon dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to us. Additionally, the borrowers on the mortgage loan supporting the CMBS Certificates must repay the components of the mortgage loan. If such 18 Table of Contents borrowers’ cash flow is insufficient to cover such repayments, we may be required to refinance the mortgage loan or sell a portion or all of our interests in the 4,969 tower sites that secure, along with their operating cash flows, the mortgage loan. Other than the cash required to repay amounts due under the CMBS Certificates, we currently expect that substantially all the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing their debt obligations. Our operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to repay our Notes, the components of the mortgage loan pursuant to the CMBS Certificates (other than those entities obligated under the CMBS Certificates), or make any funds available to us for payment. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or transfer assets to us is restricted by applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including the terms of the senior secured revolving credit facility and the CMBS Certificates. Our quarterly operating results for our site development services fluctuate and therefore we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis with regard to such fluctuations. The demand for our site development services fluctuates from quarter to quarter and should not be considered indicative of long-term results. Numerous factors cause these fluctuations, including: • the timing and amount of our customers’ capital expenditures; • the size and scope of our projects; • the business practices of customers, such as deferring commitments on new projects until after the end of the calendar year or the customers’ fiscal year; • delays relating to a project or tenant installation of equipment; • seasonal factors, such as weather, vacation days and total business days in a quarter; • the use of third party providers by our customers; • the rate and volume of wireless service providers’ network development; and • general economic conditions. Although the demand for our site development services fluctuates, we incur significant fixed costs, such as maintaining a staff and office space in anticipation of future contracts. In addition, the timing of revenues is difficult to forecast because our sales cycle may be relatively long. Therefore, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis to respond to the fluctuations in demand for our site development services. We are not profitable and expect to continue to incur losses. We are not profitable. The following chart shows the net losses we incurred for the periods indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 (in thousands) Net loss $ (133,448 ) $ (77,879 ) $ (46,763 ) Our losses are principally due to depreciation, amortization and accretion expenses, interest expense (including non-cash interest expense and amortization of deferred financing fees), and losses from the write-off of deferred financing fees and extinguishment of debt as well as impairment charges on our towers and auction rate securities in the periods presented above. We expect to continue to incur significant losses, which may affect our ability to service our indebtedness. 19 Table of Contents The loss of the services of certain of our key personnel or a significant number of our employees may negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon performance and active participation of our key personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining the services of these key personnel. We have employment agreements with Jeffrey A. Stoops, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kurt L. Bagwell, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Thomas P. Hunt, our Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel. We do not have employment agreements with any of our other key personnel. If we were to lose any key personnel, we may not be able to find an appropriate replacement on a timely basis and our results of operations could be negatively affected. Further, the loss of a significant number of employees or our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio frequency (“RF”) energy. The government imposes requirements and other guidelines relating to exposure to RF energy. Exposure to high levels of RF energy can cause negative health effects. The potential connection between exposure to low levels of RF energy and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. According to the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”), the results of these studies to date have been inconclusive. However, public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular and other wireless communications media could slow the growth of wireless companies, which could in turn slow our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, health risks could cause a decrease in the demand for wireless communications services. Moreover, if a connection between exposure to low levels of RF energy and possible negative health effects, including cancer, were demonstrated, we could be subject to numerous claims. If we were subject to claims relating to exposure to RF energy, even if such claims were not ultimately found to have merit, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is subject to government regulations and changes in current or future regulations could harm our business. We are subject to federal, state and local regulation of our business. In particular, both the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and FCC regulate the construction, modification and maintenance of antenna towers and structures that support wireless communications and radio and television antennas. In addition, the FCC separately licenses and regulates wireless communications equipment and television and radio stations operating from such towers and structures. FAA and FCC regulations govern construction, lighting, painting and marking of towers and structures and may, depending on the characteristics of the tower or structure, require registration of the tower or structure. Certain proposals to construct new towers or structures or to modify existing towers or structures are reviewed by the FAA to ensure that the tower or structure will not present a hazard to air navigation. Antenna tower owners and antenna structure owners may have an obligation to mark or paint towers or structures or install lighting to conform to FAA and FCC regulations and to maintain such marking, painting and lighting. Antenna tower owners and antenna structure owners may also bear the responsibility of notifying the FAA of any lighting outages. Certain proposals to operate wireless communications and radio or television stations from antenna towers and structures are also reviewed by the FCC to ensure compliance with environmental impact requirements. Failure to comply with existing or future applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties or other liabilities and may subject us to significant indemnification liability to our customers against any such failure to comply. In addition, new regulations may impose additional costly burdens on us, which may affect our revenues and cause delays in our growth. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers, vary greatly, but typically require antenna tower and structure owners to 20 Table of Contents obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations prior to tower or structure construction or modification. Local regulations can delay, prevent, or increase the cost of new construction, co-locations, or site upgrades, thereby limiting our ability to respond to customer demand. In addition, new regulations may be adopted that increase delays or result in additional costs to us. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and operations. Our towers are subject to damage from natural disasters. Our towers are subject to risks associated with natural disasters such as tornadoes, hurricanes and earthquakes. We maintain insurance to cover the estimated cost of replacing damaged towers, but these insurance policies are subject to loss limits and deductibles. We also maintain third party liability insurance, subject to loss limits and deductibles, to protect us in the event of an accident involving a tower. A tower accident for which we are uninsured or underinsured, or damage to a significant number of our towers, could require us to incur significant expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. We could have liability under environmental laws that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar businesses, are subject to the requirements of various federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials, and wastes. As owner, lessee or operator of numerous tower sites, we may be liable for substantial costs of remediating soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous materials, without regard to whether we, as the owner, lessee or operator, knew of or were responsible for the contamination. We may be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties if we fail to comply with any of these requirements. The current cost of complying with these laws is not material to our financial condition or results of operations. However, the requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, and could become more stringent in the future. It is possible that these requirements will change or that liabilities will arise in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have adopted anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and Florida law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. We adopted a shareholder rights agreement, which could make it considerably more difficult or costly for a person or group to acquire control of us in a transaction that our board of directors opposes. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our Class A common stock, or could limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our issuance of equity securities and other associated transactions may trigger a future ownership change which may negatively impact our ability to utilize net operating loss deferred tax assets in the future. The issuance of equity securities and other associated transactions may increase the chance that we will have a future ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. We may also have a future ownership change, outside of our control, caused by future equity transactions by our current shareholders. Depending on our market value at the time of such future ownership change, an ownership change under Section 382 could negatively impact our ability to utilize our net operating loss deferred tax assets in the event we generate future taxable income. Currently, we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our net operating loss deferred tax asset because we have concluded that our loss history indicates that it is not “more likely than not” that such deferred tax assets will be realized. 21 Table of Contents Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market or the issuance of other equity may cause dilution or adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to raise funds in new equity or equity-related offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market, including sales by any selling shareholder or conversion of the Notes, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our Class A common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our Class A common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 