Risk Factors In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. If our corporate collaborations or license agreements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be delayed. Our strategy depends upon the formation and sustainability of multiple collaborative arrangements and license agreements with third parties now and in the future. We rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise we need now and in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. To date, we have entered into several such arrangements with corporate collaborators; however, we do not know if these collaborations or additional third parties with which we collaborate, if any, will dedicate sufficient resources or if any development or commercialization efforts by third parties will be successful. Should a collaborative partner fail to develop or commercialize a compound or product to which it has rights from us for any reason, including corporate restructuring, such failure might delay our ongoing research and development efforts, because we might not receive any future milestone payments, and we would not receive any royalties associated with such compound or product. In addition, the continuation of some of our partnered drug discovery and development programs may be dependent on the periodic renewal of our corporate collaborations. The research phase of our collaboration with Johnson & Johnson ended in 2003, and the research phases conducted at our facilities under our broad collaboration with Novartis ended in 2004. The research phase of our collaboration agreement with Daiichi ended in 2005. In 2004, we signed a new collaboration agreement with Merck, and the research phase of this collaboration ended in May 2007. In 2005, we signed a new collaboration agreement with Pfizer, and the research phase of this collaboration ended in February 2007. Our collaboration agreement with Merck Serono, entered into in 2005, did not include a research phase. Our collaboration agreement with AZ, entered into in 2010, does not include a research phase. Each of our collaborations could be terminated by the other party at any time, and we may not be able to renew these collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all, or negotiate additional corporate collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all. If these collaborations terminate or are not renewed, any resultant loss of revenues from these collaborations or loss of the resources and expertise of our collaborative partners could adversely affect our business. Conflicts also might arise with collaborative partners concerning proprietary rights to particular compounds. While our existing collaborative agreements typically provide that we retain milestone payments and royalty rights with respect to drugs developed from certain derivative compounds, any such payments or royalty rights may be at reduced rates, and disputes may arise over the application of derivative payment provisions to such drugs, and we may not be successful in such disputes. We are also a party to various license agreements that give us rights to use specified technologies in our research and development processes. The agreements pursuant to which we have in-licensed technology permit our licensors to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances. If we are not able to continue to license these and future technologies on commercially reasonable terms, our product development and research may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents If conflicts arise between our collaborators or advisors and us, any of them may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our stockholders' interests. If conflicts arise between us and our corporate collaborators or scientific advisors, the other party may act in its self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. Some of our corporate collaborators are conducting multiple product development efforts within each disease area that is the subject of the collaboration with us or may be acquired or merged with a company having a competing program. In some of our collaborations, we have agreed not to conduct, independently or with any third party, any research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Our collaborators, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these collaborations. Competing products, either developed by our collaborators or to which our collaborators have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for our product candidates. If any of our corporate collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct the collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of the affected product candidates or research programs could be delayed or terminated. We generally do not control the amount and timing of resources that our corporate collaborators devote to our programs or potential products. We do not know whether current or future collaborative partners, if any, might pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by collaborative arrangements with us. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to market products in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to commercialize products from our research and development. We cannot predict whether regulatory clearance will be obtained for any product that we, or our collaborative partners, hope to develop. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Of particular significance to us are the requirements relating to research and development and testing. Before commencing clinical trials in humans in the United States, we, or our collaborative partners, will need to submit and receive approval from the FDA of an IND. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA and: •must be conducted in conformance with the FDA's good clinical practices and other applicable regulations; •must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight; •must meet requirements for informed consent; •are subject to continuing FDA oversight; •may require large numbers of test subjects; and •may be suspended by us, our collaborators or the FDA at any time if it is believed that the subjects participating in these trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the IND or the conduct of these trials. While we have stated that we intend to file additional INDs, this is only a statement of intent, and we may not be able to do so because we may not be able to identify potential product candidates. In addition, the FDA may not approve any IND in a timely manner, or at all. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate with substantial clinical evidence that the product is safe and effective in the patient population and the indication that will be 17 Table of Contents treated. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, adverse publicity, as well as other regulatory action against our potential products or us. Additionally, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those indications or disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and efficacious. We cannot ensure that any compound developed by us, alone or with others, will prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials and will meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. Outside the United States, our ability, or that of our collaborative partners, to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks and costs associated with FDA approval described above and may also include additional risks and costs. We might not be able to commercialize our product candidates successfully if problems arise in the clinical testing and approval process. Commercialization of our product candidates depends upon successful completion of extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. In connection with clinical trials of our product candidates, we face the risks that: •the product candidate may not prove to be effective; •we may discover that a product candidate may cause harmful side effects; •the results may not replicate the results of earlier, smaller trials; •we or the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may suspend the trials; •the results may not be statistically significant; •patient recruitment may be slower than expected; •patients may drop out of the trials; and •regulatory requirements may change. We do not know whether we, or any of our collaborative partners, will be permitted to undertake clinical trials of potential products beyond the trials already concluded and the trials currently in process. It will take us, or our collaborative partners several years to complete any such testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Interim results of trials do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. Moreover, we or our collaborative partners or regulators may decide to discontinue development of any or all of these projects at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. 18 Table of Contents There is a high risk that drug discovery and development efforts might not successfully generate good product candidates. At the present time, the majority of our operations are in various stages of drug identification and development. We currently have two product compounds in the clinical testing stage: one with indications for RA, ITP, B-cell lymphoma and T-cell lymphoma, as well as for certain solid tumors that is being implemented by the NCI, all of which indications are subject to a collaboration agreement with AZ; and one in Phase 1b testing and intended for allergic asthma, which is subject to a collaboration agreement with Pfizer, Inc., or Pfizer. In our industry, it is statistically unlikely that the limited number of compounds that we have identified as potential product candidates will actually lead to successful product development efforts, and we do not expect any drugs resulting from our research to be commercially available for several years, if at all. Our compounds in clinical trials and our future leads for potential drug compounds are subject to the risks and failures inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. These risks include, but are not limited to, the inherent difficulty in selecting the right drug and drug target and avoiding unwanted side effects, as well as unanticipated problems relating to product development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, maintaining regulatory compliance, manufacturing, competition and costs and expenses that may exceed current estimates. For example, in our recently completed two Phase 2b clinical trials for R788 in RA, TASKi2 and TASKi3, the most common clinically meaningful drug-related adverse events noted were diarrhea and hypertension. In both our TASKi2 and TASKi3 Phase 2b clinical trials, a meaningfully higher percentage of patients in the R788 treatment groups had blood pressure medication adjusted or initiated during the course of the clinical trials as compared to the placebo group. In larger future clinical trials, we may discover additional side effects and/or higher frequency of side effects than those observed in completed clinical trials. If approved by the FDA, the side effect profile of R788 may also result in a narrowly approved indication for use of the product, especially in light of other drugs currently available to treat RA, dependent on the safety profile of R788 relative to those drugs. The results of preliminary and mid-stage studies do not necessarily predict clinical or commercial success, and larger later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results observed in the previous studies. Similarly, a clinical trial may show that a product candidate is safe and effective for certain patient populations in a particular indication, but other clinical trials may fail to confirm those results in a subset of that population or in a different patient population, which may limit the potential market for that product candidate. For example, R788 produced significant clinical improvement in RA patients who had failed to respond to methotrexate alone in our TASKi2 Phase 2b clinical trial, but our TASKi3 Phase 2b clinical trial failed to meet its efficacy endpoints in RA patients who had failed to respond to at least one biologic treatment. In addition, if we were to repeat either of the TASKi2 and TASKi3 Phase 2b clinical trials, any such additional trials may not confirm the results observed in the original trials. If our partner, AZ, is able to initiate a Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating R788 in RA patients, the Phase 3 clinical trial may not show R788 to be safe and effective for the treatment of RA patients. Finally, with respect to our own compounds in development, we have established anticipated timelines with respect to the initiation of clinical studies based on existing knowledge of the compound. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will meet any of these timelines for clinical development. Because of the uncertainty of whether the accumulated preclinical evidence (pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, safety and/or other factors) or early clinical results will be observed in later clinical trials, we can make no assurances regarding the likely results from our future clinical trials or the impact of those results on our business. 19 Table of Contents Our success is dependent on intellectual property rights held by us and third parties, and our interest in such rights is complex and uncertain. Our success will depend to a large part on our own, our licensees' and our licensors' ability to obtain and defend patents for each party's respective technologies and the compounds and other products, if any, resulting from the application of such technologies. We have over 100 pending patent applications and over 155 issued patents in the United States as well as numerous pending corresponding foreign patent applications. In the future, our patent position might be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. For example, we may be involved in interferences before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Interferences are complex and expensive legal proceedings and there is no assurance we will be successful in any such proceedings. An interference could result in our losing our patent rights and/or our freedom to operate and/or require us to pay significant royalties. Additional uncertainty may result because no consistent policy regarding the breadth of legal claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in our or other companies' patents. Because the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, we cannot ensure that: •we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; •we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; •any patents issued to us or our collaborators will provide a basis for commercially-viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; •we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or •the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable; however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. We are a party to certain in-license agreements that are important to our business, and we generally do not control the prosecution of in-licensed technology. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we exercise over our internally-developed technology. Moreover, some of our academic institution licensors, research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may otherwise be impaired. In addition, some of the technology we have licensed relies on patented inventions developed using U.S. government resources. The U.S. government retains certain rights, as defined by law, in such patents, and may choose to exercise such rights. Certain of our in-licenses may be terminated if we fail to meet specified obligations. If we fail to meet such obligations and any of our licensors exercise their termination rights, we could lose our rights under those agreements. If we lose any of our rights, it may adversely affect the way we conduct our business. In addition, because certain of our licenses are sublicenses, the actions of our licensors may affect our rights under those licenses. 20 Table of Contents If a dispute arises regarding the infringement or misappropriation of the proprietary rights of others, such dispute could be costly and result in delays in our research and development activities and partnering. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. There are many issued patents and patent applications filed by third parties relating to products or processes that are similar or identical to our licensors or ours, and others may be filed in the future. There can be no assurance that our activities, or those of our licensors, will not infringe patents owned by others. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, and we do not know if our collaborators or we would be successful in any such litigation. Any legal action against our collaborators or us claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products, our methods or processes could: •require our collaborators or us to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected products, methods or processes, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; •prevent us from using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; •subject us to potential liability for damages; •consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources; and •result in litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly, whether we win or lose. We will need additional capital in the future to sufficiently fund our operations and research. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital to date as we continue our research and development activities, including preclinical studies and clinical trials. In September 2009, we completed an underwritten public offering in which we sold 14,950,000 shares of our common stock at a price to the public of $7.25 per share. We received net proceeds of approximately $101.5 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In February 2010, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with AZ for the global development and commercialization of our oral Syk inhibitors for the treatment of human diseases other than those primarily involving respiratory or pulmonary dysfunction. The agreement includes a license of rights to fostamatinib disodium, or R788, our late-stage investigational product candidate for the treatment of RA and other indications. Upon effectiveness of the agreement, AZ is required to pay us an upfront payment of $100.0 million, and up to an additional $345.0 million if specified development, regulatory and launch milestones are achieved for R788. We will also be eligible to receive up to an additional $800.0 million if specified sales performance milestones are achieved for R788, as well as significant stepped double-digit royalties on net sales worldwide of R788. The agreement is subject to and will become effective upon clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, or the HSR Act. We believe that our existing capital resources and the anticipated proceeds from our current collaborations, including the upfront payment we expect to receive from AZ upon the effectiveness of our collaboration agreement with them, will be sufficient to support our current and projected funding requirements through at least the next 12 months. We may need additional funds in the future and the amount of future funds needed will depend largely on the timing and structure of potential future collaborations. Unless and until we are able to generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, we expect to finance future cash needs through public and/or private offerings of equity securities, debt financings or collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on the investment of our cash balances and short-term investments. With the exception of milestone and royalty payments that we may receive under our existing collaborations, we do not currently have any commitments for future funding. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on reasonable terms. 21 Table of Contents To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders could at that time experience substantial dilution. Any debt financing that we are able to obtain may involve operating covenants that restrict our business. To the extent that we raise additional funds through any new collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our future funding requirements will depend on many uncertain factors. Our future funding requirements will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to: •the progress and success of clinical trials and preclinical activities (including studies and manufacture of materials) of our product candidates conducted by us or our collaborative partners or licensees; •our ability to establish new collaborations, including the terms thereof, and to meet our obligations under our existing collaboration partnerships; •the progress of research programs carried out by us; •any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; •our ability to meet the milestones identified in our collaborative agreements that trigger payments to us from our collaboration partners; •the progress of the research and development efforts of our collaborative partners; •our ability to acquire or license other technologies or compounds that we seek to pursue; •our ability to manage our growth; •competing technological and market developments; •the costs and timing of obtaining, enforcing and defending our patent and intellectual property rights; •the costs and timing of regulatory approvals and filings by us and our collaborators; and •expenses associated with the pending and potential additional related purported securities class action lawsuits, as well as any unforeseen litigation. Insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs, to lose rights under existing licenses or to relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose or may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. Our success as a company is uncertain due to our history of operating losses and the uncertainty of future profitability. Due in large part to the significant research and development expenditures required to identify and validate new product candidates and pursue our development efforts, we have not been profitable and have incurred operating losses each year since we were incorporated in June 1996. We incurred net losses of approximately $111.5 million, $132.3 million, and $74.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Currently, our only potential source of revenues is upfront payments, research and development milestone and royalty payments pursuant to our collaboration arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $613.3 million. The extent of our future losses and the timing of potential profitability are highly uncertain. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses to offset future taxable income. Our existing net operating losses and credits may be subject to limitations arising from previous and future ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. To the extent we cannot completely utilize net operating loss carryforwards or tax credits in our financial statements to offset future taxable income, our tax expense may increase in future periods. Because we expect to be dependent upon collaborative and license agreements, we might not meet our strategic objectives. Our ability to generate revenue in the near term depends on the timing of recognition of certain upfront payments, achievement of certain milestone triggering events with our existing collaboration agreements and our ability to enter into additional collaborative agreements with third parties. Our ability to enter into new collaborations and the revenue, if any, that may be recognized under these collaborations is highly uncertain. If we are unable to enter into one or more new collaborations, our business prospects could be harmed, which could have an immediate adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop our compounds and on the trading price of our stock. Our ability to enter into a collaboration may be dependent on many factors, such as the results of our clinical trials, competitive factors and the fit of one of our programs with another company's risk tolerance, including toward regulatory issues, patent portfolio, clinical pipeline, the stage of the available data, particularly if it is early, overall corporate goals and financial position. To date, a portion of our revenues have been related to the research phase of each of our collaborative agreements. Such revenues are for specified periods, and the impact of such revenues on our results of operations is partially offset by corresponding research costs. Following the completion of the research phase of each collaborative agreement, additional revenues may come only from milestone payments and royalties, which may not be paid, if at all, until certain conditions are met. This risk is heightened due to the fact that unsuccessful research efforts may preclude us from receiving any milestone payments under these agreements. Our receipt of revenues from collaborative arrangements is also significantly affected by the timing of efforts expended by us and our collaborators and the timing of lead compound identification. We have received milestone payments from our collaborations with Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., a division of Johnson & Johnson, Novartis Pharma AG, or Novartis, Daiichi Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., or Daiichi, Merck & Co., Inc., or Merck, Merck Serono and Pfizer. We expect to receive an upfront payment upon the effectiveness of our collaboration agreement with AZ. Under many agreements, however, milestone payments may not be earned until the collaborator has advanced product candidates into clinical testing, which may never occur or may not occur until some time well into the future. If we are not able to generate revenue under our collaborations when and in accordance with our expectations or the expectations of industry analysts, this failure could harm our business and have an immediate adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our business requires us to generate meaningful revenue from royalties and licensing agreements. To date, we have not received any revenue from royalties for the commercial sale of drugs, and we do not know when we will receive any such revenue, if at all. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs and timing. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be halted or redesigned or will be completed on schedule, or at all. In addition, clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a study, delays from 23 Table of Contents scaling up of a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective clinical sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective clinical site or delays in recruiting subjects to participate in a study. In addition, we typically rely on third-party clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials and other third-party organizations to oversee the operations of such trials and to perform data collection and analysis. The clinical investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. Failure of the third-party organizations to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products. As a result, we may face additional delaying factors outside our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion. While we have not yet experienced delays that have materially impacted our clinical trials or product development costs, delays of this sort could occur for the reasons identified above or other reasons. If we have delays in testing or obtaining regulatory approvals, our product development costs will increase. For example, we may need to make additional payments to third-party investigators and organizations to retain their services or we may need to pay recruitment incentives. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be delayed. Moreover, these third-party investigators and organizations may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If these third-party investigators and organizations assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. We have been named a defendant in a purported securities class action lawsuit. This, and potential similar or related litigation, could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business. On February 6, 2009, a purported securities class action lawsuit was commenced in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, naming as defendants us, certain of our officers and directors, and the underwriters for our February 2008 stock offering. An additional purported securities class action lawsuit containing similar allegations was subsequently filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on February 20, 2009. By order of the Court dated March 19, 2009, the two lawsuits were consolidated into a single action. On June 9, 2009, the Court issued an order naming the Inter-Local Pension Fund GCC/IBT as lead plaintiff. The lead plaintiff filed a consolidated complaint on July 24, 2009. We filed a motion to dismiss on September 8, 2009. On December 21, 2009, the Court granted our motion and dismissed the consolidated complaint with leave to amend. Plaintiff filed its consolidated amended complaint on January 27, 2010. The lawsuit alleges violations of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with allegedly false and misleading statements made by us related to the results of the Phase 2a clinical trial of our product candidate R788. The plaintiff seeks damages, including rescission or rescissory damages for purchasers in the stock offering, an award of their costs and injunctive and/or equitable relief for purchasers of our common stock during the period between December 13, 2007 and February 3, 2009, including purchasers in the February 2008 stock offering. We filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint on February 16, 2010, and a hearing on that motion is set for April 9, 2010. It is possible that additional suits will be filed with respect to these same matters and also naming us and/or our officers and directors as defendants. If any such additional suits are filed in the same court, we believe that they would be consolidated into the consolidated action. We believe that we have meritorious defenses and intend to defend the lawsuit vigorously. This lawsuit and any other related lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual costs to be incurred relating to the lawsuit will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, and we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of this suit, and we may not prevail. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time-consuming for our 24 Table of Contents management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from this matter, as this lawsuit is currently at an early stage and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve this matter or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to this lawsuit. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on this action could result in the payment of substantial damages, or possibly fines, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. In addition, the uncertainty of the currently pending litigation could lead to increased volatility in our stock price. We lack the capability to manufacture compounds for development and rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates, and we may be unable to obtain required material in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at a quality level required to receive regulatory approval. We currently do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to produce our product candidates for clinical testing. For each clinical trial of our unpartnered product candidates, we rely on a sole manufacturer for the active pharmaceutical ingredients, as well as various manufacturers to manufacture starting components, excipients and formulated drug products. We rely on manufacturers to produce and deliver all of the materials required for our clinical trials, and many of our preclinical efforts, on a timely basis and to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. In addition, we rely on our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of materials produced under cGMP conditions to enable us to conduct planned preclinical studies and clinical trials. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon these third-party manufacturers may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. These manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality level or in the quantity required to meet our development timelines and applicable regulatory requirements and may also experience a shortage in qualified personnel. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing third-party manufacturing arrangements, or enter into new arrangements, on acceptable terms, or at all. Our third-party manufacturers could terminate or decline to renew our manufacturing arrangements based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are unable to contract for the production of materials in sufficient quantity and of sufficient quality on acceptable terms, our planned clinical trials may be significantly delayed. Manufacturing delays could postpone the filing of our investigational new drug, or IND, applications and/or the initiation of clinical trials that we have currently planned. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and other federal and state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards and they may not be able to comply. Switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly on acceptable terms, or at all. Additionally, if we are required to enter into new supply arrangements, we may not be able to obtain approval from the FDA of any alternate supplier in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of any related product candidates. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, civil penalties, delays in or failure to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, injunctions, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products and 25 Table of Contents compounds, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. The restructuring of our research programs could result in management distractions, operational disruptions and other difficulties. In February 2009, we announced that we cut our research programs in virology and oncology, as well as terminated certain related development and administrative staff, which resulted in the dismissal of 36 employees, or approximately 20% of our workforce. Employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with this reduction may seek future employment with our competitors. Although all employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Any additional restructuring efforts could divert the attention of our management away from our operations, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. We cannot assure you that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities, that any of our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or future restructuring plans. In addition, if we reduce our workforce further in the future, it may adversely impact our ability to continue to develop our product candidates. If our competitors develop technologies that are more effective than ours, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Many of the drugs that we are attempting to discover will be competing with existing therapies. In addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic and research institutions and government agencies, both in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions as our research programs. Our major competitors include fully integrated pharmaceutical companies that have extensive drug discovery efforts and are developing novel small molecule pharmaceuticals. We also face significant competition from organizations that are pursuing the same or similar technologies, including the discovery of targets that are useful in compound screening, as the technologies used by us in our drug discovery efforts. Competition may also arise from: •new or better methods of target identification or validation; •other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease; •new small molecules; or •other classes of therapeutic agents. Our competitors or their collaborative partners may utilize discovery technologies and techniques or partner with collaborators in order to develop products more rapidly or successfully than we or our collaborators are able to do. Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies and may establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. 26 Table of Contents We believe that our ability to compete is dependent, in part, upon our ability to create, maintain and license scientifically-advanced technology and upon our and our collaborators' ability to develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products based on this technology, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary technology or processes and secure sufficient capital resources for the expected substantial time period between technological conception and commercial sales of products based upon our technology. The failure by any of our collaborators or us in any of those areas may prevent the successful commercialization of our potential drug targets. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: •identifying and validating targets; •screening compounds against targets; and •undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, identifying or validating new targets or discovering new drug compounds before we do. Our competitors might develop technologies and drugs that are more effective or less costly than any that are being developed by us or that would render our technology and product candidates obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, our competitors may succeed in obtaining the approval of the FDA or other regulatory agencies for product candidates more rapidly. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that would delay or prevent our ability to market certain products. Any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with our existing or future collaborative partners, might not be able to compete successfully with competitors' existing or future products or obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to additional technologies. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than ours. Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if our collaborative partners fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for products from third-party payors or government agencies. The drugs we hope to develop may be rejected by the marketplace due to many factors, including cost. Our ability to commercially exploit a drug may be limited due to the continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government control. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will likely continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that any of our collaborators would receive for any products in the future. Further, cost control initiatives could adversely affect our collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and our ability to realize royalties from this commercialization. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products with collaborators may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from: •government and health administration authorities; •private health insurers; and •other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved healthcare products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any products we discover and develop, alone or with collaborators. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products may be reduced. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. We carry product liability insurance that is limited in scope and amount and may not be adequate to fully protect us against product liability claims. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We, or our corporate collaborators, might not be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. While under various circumstances we are entitled to be indemnified against losses by our corporate collaborators, indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. Our research and development efforts will be seriously jeopardized, if we are unable to attract and retain key employees and relationships. As a small company, our success depends on the continued contributions of our principal management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, scientists and companies in the face of intense competition for such personnel. In particular, our research programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled chemists, other scientists, and development, regulatory and clinical personnel. If we lose the services of any of our key personnel, our research and development efforts could be seriously and adversely affected. Our employees can terminate their employment with us at any time. We depend on various scientific consultants and advisors for the success and continuation of our research and development efforts. We work extensively with various scientific consultants and advisors. The potential success of our drug discovery and development programs depends, in part, on continued collaborations with certain of these consultants and advisors. We, and various members of our management and research staff, rely on certain of these consultants and advisors for expertise in our research, regulatory and clinical efforts. Our scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We do not know if we will be able to maintain such consulting agreements or that such scientific advisors will not enter into consulting 28 Table of Contents arrangements, exclusive or otherwise, with competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, any of which would have a detrimental impact on our research objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and such liability could exceed our resources. We are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with, or any potential violation of, these laws and regulations could be significant. Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired, and our research could be lost or destroyed. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Future interest income and value of our investments may be impacted by further declines in interest rates and the broader effects of the recent turmoil in the global credit markets. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval. As a result of this turmoil, the interest paid on certain of our investments may decrease and the value of certain securities we hold may decline in the future, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows and reported earnings. Our stock price may be volatile, and our stockholders' investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for our common stock and the securities of other biotechnology companies have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: •the progress and success of clinical trials and preclinical activities (including studies and manufacture of materials) of our product candidates conducted by us or our collaborative partners or licensees; •the receipt or failure to receive the additional funding necessary to conduct our business; •selling by large stockholders; •presentations of detailed clinical trial data at medical and scientific conferences and investor perception thereof; 29 Table of Contents •announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; •developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; •developments concerning our collaborations; •publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •litigation; •economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis; and •period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. Future equity issuances or a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Because we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to expand our business and our research and development activities, among other things, we may conduct additional equity offerings. If we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. A decline in the market price of our common stock could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: •establish that members of the board of directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our capital stock; •authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; •limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; •provide for a board of directors with staggered terms; and •provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by a resolution of our board of directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes certain restrictions relating to transactions with major stockholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 