Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. A discussion of the risks associated with these factors is included below. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The cyclical nature of automotive sales and production can adversely affect our business Our business is directly related to automotive vehicle production by our customers. Automotive production is highly cyclical and depends on general economic conditions as well as other factors, including consumer spending and preferences and changes in interest 8 Table of Contents rate levels and credit availability, consumer confidence, fuel costs, fuel availability, environmental impact, governmental incentives, and political volatility, especially in energy producing countries and growth markets. In addition, automotive sales and production can be affected by our customers’ ability to continue operating in response to challenging economic conditions and in response to changing labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. Any significant (adverse) change in any of these factors, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions and the resulting bankruptcy of a customer or the closure of a customer manufacturing facility, may result in a reduction in automotive sales and production by our customers, and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our sales are also affected by inventory levels of our customers. We cannot predict when our customers will decide to either increase or reduce inventory levels or whether new inventory levels will approximate historical inventory levels. This may exacerbate variability in our sales and financial condition. Uncertainty regarding inventory levels may be exacerbated by consumer financing programs initiated or terminated by our customers or governments as such changes may affect the timing of their sales. Again, any significant reduction in automotive sales and/or production by our customers, whether due to general economic conditions or any other fact(s) relevant to automotive production, will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Change in consumer trends and political decisions affecting vehicle sales could adversely affect our results in the future During 2007-2009, global production of large-sized cars dropped by 43% from the 2007 level compared to an overall decrease of global LVP of 16%. In 2012, global production of large-sized cars was 8% less than in 2007 despite the fact the overall global LVP increased by 16%. This drop was particularly pronounced in Western Europe and North America where many of the cars in the large-size segment have safety content values of more than $500 per vehicle. This “mix shift” had a negative impact on Autoliv’s market as the value of safety systems in large-sized cars is often more than twice as high as in a low-end vehicle for the markets in North America and Western Europe. In vehicles for the growth markets, the difference is even more significant. For example, the strong LVP growth in China and India has currently created a dilutive effect, since the average safety value per vehicle in these markets of approximately $200 and $60, respectively, are below the global average of around $300. Car consumer trends such as this could accelerate in the future, especially as a result of political initiatives aimed at (or having the effect of) directing demand more towards smaller cars. As safety content per vehicle is also an indicator of our sales development, should the current trends continue, the average value of safety systems per vehicle could decline and negatively affect our sales and margins. We operate in highly competitive markets The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The market for occupant restraint systems has undergone a significant consolidation during the past fifteen years. We compete with a number of other manufacturers that produce and sell similar products. Among other factors, our products compete on the basis of price, product quality, manufacturing and distribution capability, product design, product delivery and product service. Some of our competitors are subsidiaries (or divisions, units or similar) of companies that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than us. Some of our competitors may also have a “preferred status” as a result of special relationships with certain customers. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors. In addition, our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than we can, or adapt 9 Table of Contents more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving regulatory, industry or customer requirements. We may also encounter increased competition in the future from existing or new competitors. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully with their products. Should this happen, we will suffer material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The discontinuation or loss of business with respect to or a lack of commercial success of a particular vehicle model for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our sales and harm our profitability Although we have frame contracts with many of our customers, these frame contracts generally provide for the supply of a customer’s annual requirements for a particular model and assembly plant, rather than for the purchase of a specific quantity of products. Furthermore, these frame contracts are often subject to renewal/re-quotation at the customer’s option at periodic intervals, sometimes as frequent as on a year-to-year basis. Therefore, the discontinuation of, the loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of a particular vehicle model or a particular vehicle brand for which we are a significant supplier could reduce our sales and harm our profitability. While we believe this risk is mitigated by the fact that our sales are split over several hundred contracts covering approximately 1,300 vehicle platforms or vehicle models, a significant disruption in the industry, a significant decline in overall demand or a dramatic change in vehicle preferences could have a material adverse effect on our sales, as it did in 2009. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Escalating pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business The automotive industry has been characterized by increasingly aggressive pricing pressure from customers for many years. This trend is partly attributable to the major automobile manufacturers’ strong purchasing power. As with other automotive component manufacturers, we are often expected to quote fixed prices or are forced to accept prices with annual price reduction commitments for long-term sales arrangements or discounted reimbursements for engineering work. Our future profitability will depend upon, among other things, our ability to continuously reduce our cost per unit and maintain our cost structure, enabling us to remain cost-competitive. Our profitability is also influenced by our success in designing and marketing technological improvements in automotive safety systems which help us offset price reductions by the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). If we are unable to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, these price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could experience disruption in our supply or delivery chain, which could cause one or more of our customers to halt or delay production We, as with other component manufactures in the automotive industry, ship products to the vehicle assembly plants throughout the world so they are delivered on a “Just-in-time” basis in order to maintain low inventory levels. Our suppliers (external suppliers as well as our own production sites) also use a similar method. However, this “Just-in-time” method makes the logistics supply chain in our industry very complex and very vulnerable to disruptions. The potential loss of one of our suppliers or our own production sites could be caused by a myriad of potential problems, such as closures of one of our own or one of our suppliers’ plants or critical manufacturing lines due to strikes, mechanical breakdowns, electrical outages, fires, explosions, political upheaval, as well as logistical complications due to 10 Table of Contents weather, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters, mechanical failures, delayed customs processing and more. Additionally, as we expand in growth markets, the risk for such disruptions is heightened. The lack of even a small single subcomponent necessary to manufacture one of our products, for whatever reason, could force us to cease production, even for a prolonged period. Similarly, a potential quality issue could force us to halt deliveries while we validate the products. Even where products are ready to be shipped or have been shipped, delays may arise before they reach our customer. Our customers may halt or delay their production for the same reason if one of their other suppliers fails to deliver necessary components. This may cause our customers to suspend their orders or instruct us to suspend delivery of our products, which may adversely affect our financial performance. When we cease timely deliveries, we have to absorb our own costs for identifying and solving the “root cause” problem as well as expeditiously producing replacement components or products. Generally, we must also carry the costs associated with “catching up,” such as overtime and premium freight. Additionally, if we are the cause for a customer being forced to halt production the customer may seek to recoup all of its losses and expenses from us. These losses and expenses could be very significant and may include consequential losses such as lost profits. Thus, any supply-chain disruption, however small, could potentially cause the complete shutdown of an assembly line of one of our customers, and any such shutdown could expose us to material claims of compensation. Where a customer halts production because of another supplier failing to deliver on time, we may not be fully compensated, if at all. For example, in early 2010 volcanic activity in Iceland caused widespread and unprecedented delays in air travel. Additionally, severe flooding during the 2011 monsoon season in Thailand disrupted our supply and distribution chain in the region. The events triggered by the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan caused extensive and severe damage, impacting not only manufacturing facilities of automotive suppliers (including sub-suppliers) and manufacturers but also of transportation, energy and distribution infrastructure. Such disruptions, whether caused by a volcano, earthquake, flooding or some other natural disaster, could cause significant delays and complications to our ability to ship our products to customers, as well as receive shipments from our suppliers. Also, similar difficulties for other suppliers may force our customers to halt production, which may in turn impact our sales shipments to such customers. It is impossible for us to predict if and when disruptions of air, ground and sea transport will occur again and, if so, what impact such disruptions will have. Any such disruptions could severely impact our operations and/or those of our customers and force us to halt production for prolonged periods of time and/or to absorb very significant costs to avoid disruption of our customers’ operations. Changes in the source, cost, availability of and regulations pertaining to raw materials and components may adversely affect our profit margins Our business uses a broad range of raw materials and components in the manufacture of our products, nearly all of which are generally available from a number of qualified suppliers. Strong worldwide demand for certain raw materials has had a significant impact on raw material prices and short-term availability in recent years. Our business has not generally experienced significant or long-term difficulty in obtaining raw materials, but increases in the price of the raw materials and components in our products could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our profit margin, as direct materials costs amounted to approximately 54% of our net sales in 2012, of which approximately half is the raw material cost portion. Commercial negotiations with our customers and suppliers may not always offset all of the adverse impact of higher raw material, energy and commodity costs. In addition, no 11 Table of Contents assurances can be given that the magnitude and duration of such cost increases or any future cost increases could not have a larger adverse impact on our profitability and consolidated financial position than currently anticipated. Additionally, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC has promulgated new rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company’s products of certain metals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries, known as “conflict minerals,” as well as disclosure regarding a manufacturer’s procedures to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. Adverse developments affecting one or more of our major suppliers could harm our profitability Any significant disruption in our supplier relationships, particularly relationships with single-source suppliers, could harm our profitability. Furthermore, some of our suppliers may not be able to handle the commodity cost volatility and/or sharply changing volumes while still performing as we expect. Over time, more of our suppliers are located in growth markets. As such, there is a risk for delivery delays, production delays, production issues or delivery of non-conforming products by our suppliers. Even where these risks do not materialize, we may incur costs as we try to make contingency plans for such risks. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers We are dependent on a relatively few number of automobile manufacturers with strong purchasing power, as a result of high market concentration that has developed due to customer consolidation during the last few decades. Our five largest customers represented 54% of our consolidated sales for 2012. Our largest contract accounted for approximately 4.3% of our total fiscal 2012 sales and expires in 2015. Although business with any given customer is typically split into several contracts (either on the basis of one contract per vehicle model or on a broader platform basis), the loss of all of the business from any of our primary customers (whether by cancellation of existing contracts or the failure to award us new business) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Customers may put us on a “new business hold” which would limit our ability to quote or be awarded all or part of their future vehicle contracts if quality or other issues arise in the vehicles for which we were a supplier. Such new business holds range in length and scope and are generally accompanied by a certain set of remedial conditions that are required to be met prior to being eligible to bid for new business. Although such new business holds generally do not have an immediate material impact on our business or results of operations, we are committed to meeting any such conditions as quickly as possible, which may require additional Company resources in the short term. A failure to satisfy such remedial conditions may have a materially adverse impact on our financial results in the long term. Information concerning our major customers is included in the Annual Report in a graph on page 28 and in the section headed “Our Customers” and in Note 19 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80 of the Annual Report. 12 Table of Contents We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and our business may suffer as a result of adverse outcomes of current or future legal proceedings We are, from time to time, involved in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes that may be significant. These claims may include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with our suppliers, intellectual property matters, regulatory matters and governmental investigations, personal injury claims, environmental issues, tax and customs matters and employment matters. Such legal proceedings, including regulatory actions and government investigations, may seek recovery of very large indeterminate amounts or to limit our operations, and the possibility that they may arise and their magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. A substantial legal liability or adverse regulatory outcome and the substantial cost to defend the litigation or regulatory proceedings may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and reputation. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on our profitability and consolidated financial position or that reserves or insurance will mitigate such impact. See Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 74 of the Annual Report. We are currently undergoing an antitrust investigation by the European Commission and it is probable that the Company’s operating results and cash flows will be materially adversely impacted The European Commission (“EC”) is engaged in a long-running investigation into possible anti-competitive behavior among certain suppliers to the automotive vehicle industry, including Autoliv. From June 7 to June 9, 2011, representatives of the EC visited two facilities of Autoliv BV & Co KG, a Company subsidiary in Germany, to gather information for such inquiry. The EC’s investigation is still ongoing. It is the Company’s policy to cooperate with governmental investigations. Although the duration or ultimate outcome of the EC investigation cannot be predicted or estimated, it is probable that the Company’s operating results and cash flows will be materially adversely impacted for the reporting periods in which the EC investigation is resolved or becomes estimable. The Company remains unable to estimate the impact the EC investigation will have or predict the reporting periods in which such impact may be recorded. The Company’s recent settlement with the Antitrust Division of the US Department of Justice (“DOJ”) does not impact the EC’s ongoing investigation, as the EC investigation is a separate matter that involves the application of different legal standards. We are subject to investigations by two other competition authorities and may be subject to investigations by additional competition authorities that could negatively impact our business Competition authorities in Canada and South Korea have recently initiated investigations of certain suppliers to the automotive vehicle industry, including Autoliv. Competition authorities in additional countries, including Japan, may do the same. These types of investigations require significant management time and attention, as the EC and DOJ investigations already have. These investigations could also result in significant expenses as well as unfavorable outcomes that could have a material adverse impact on our customer relationships, business prospects, reputation, operating results, cash flows or financial results. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to civil antitrust litigation in the U.S. following the DOJ settlement and may be subject to additional civil antitrust litigation in the U.S. or elsewhere that could negatively impact our business Following the Company’s guilty plea as part of the DOJ settlement, the Company and its competitors were sued in multiple purported class action lawsuits in the U.S. and Canada alleging violations of antitrust and related laws and seeking to recover treble damages for the alleged classes of direct purchasers, auto dealers and vehicle purchasers/lessees. The Company may be subject to additional civil antitrust lawsuits in the future in the U.S., Canada or in other countries that permit such civil claims. These types of lawsuits require significant management time and attention and could result in significant expenses as well as unfavorable outcomes that could have a material adverse impact on our customer relationships, business prospects, reputation, operating results, cash-flows or financial results. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. Every vehicle manufacturer has its own practices regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers, and the performance and remedial requirements vary between jurisdictions. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with recalls and product-liability claims. In addition, with global platforms and procedures, vehicle manufacturers are increasingly evaluating our quality performance on a global basis; any one or more quality, warranty or other recall issue(s) (including issues affecting few units and/or having a small financial impact) may cause a vehicle manufacturer to implement measures which may have a severe impact on our operations, such as a global temporary or prolonged suspension of new orders. In addition, as our products more frequently use global designs and are based on or utilize the same or similar parts, components or solutions, there is a risk that the number of vehicles affected globally by a failure or defect will increase significantly and hence also our costs. A warranty, recall or product-liability claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance may have a material adverse effect on our business. Vehicle manufacturers are also increasingly requiring their outside suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and bear the costs of repair and replacement of such products under new vehicle warranties. A vehicle manufacturer may attempt to hold us responsible for some or the entire repair or replacement costs of defective products under new vehicle warranties, when the product supplied did not perform as represented. Accordingly, the future costs of warranty claims by our customers may be material. However, we believe our established reserves are adequate to cover potential warranty settlements. Our warranty reserves are based upon our best estimates of amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims. Although we regularly evaluate the appropriateness of these reserves and adjust them when appropriate, the final amounts determined to be due related to these matters could differ materially from our recorded estimates. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our customers’ facilities or at our facilities could adversely affect our operations The severe conditions in the automotive industry and actions taken by our customers and other suppliers to address negative industry trends may have the side effect of causing labor relations problems at those companies. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at another supplier could interrupt production at one of our customers’ plants which would have the same effect. This could cause us to shut down production 14 Table of Contents facilities supplying these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While labor contract negotiations at our locations historically have rarely resulted in work stoppages, we cannot assure that we will be able to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions or that our failure to do so will not result in work stoppages. A work stoppage at one or more of our plants or our customers’ facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly engineers and other employees with electronics and software expertise. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, we are committed to safeguarding our employees as well as our production facilities by employing several policies, standards and procedures related to site risk management. In view of major external events during recent years, there is no certainty that our efforts to protect against potential natural hazards and political events throughout the areas and countries where Autoliv is active will be successful in protecting our employees. If we fail to adequately protect against these hazards, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Restructuring initiatives are complex and difficult and at any time additional restructuring steps may be necessary, possibly on short notice and at significant cost Our restructuring initiatives include efforts to adjust our manufacturing capacity, including plant closures, transfer of sourcing to low-cost countries, consolidation of our supplier base and standardization of products. And to reduce our overhead costs, our restructuring initiatives include consolidation of tech centers. The successful implementation of our restructuring activities will require us to involve sourcing, logistics, technology and employment arrangements. The complex nature of our various restructuring initiatives could cause difficulties or delays in the implementation of any such initiative or it may not be immediately effective, resulting in an adverse material impact on our performance. In addition, there is a risk that inflation, high-turnover rates and increased competition may reduce the efficiencies now available in low-cost countries to levels that no longer allow for cost-beneficial restructuring opportunities. A prolonged recession and/or another downturn in our industry could result in our having insufficient funds to continue our operations without additional financing activities Our ability to generate cash from our operations is highly dependent on sales and therefore on light vehicle production, the global economy and especially the economies of our important markets. If light vehicle production were to remain on low levels for an extended period of time, this would result in a significantly negative cash flow. Similarly, if cash losses for customer defaults rise sharply, this would also result in a negative cash flow. Such negative cash flow could result in our having insufficient funds to continue our operations unless we can procure external financing, which may not be possible. 15 Table of Contents A prolonged recession and/or another downturn in our industry could result in external financing not being available to us or available only on materially different terms than what has historically been available Although our credit rating was upgraded in 2010, our current credit rating could be lowered as a result of us experiencing significant negative cash flows or a dire financial outlook. This may affect our ability to procure financing. We may also for the same, or other reasons, find it difficult to secure new long-term credit facilities, at reasonable terms, when our existing credit facility expires in 2017. These risks are exacerbated by the current instability in the global credit markets, including the on-going European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries and to the overall Eurozone. Further, even our existing unutilized credit facilities may not be available to us as agreed, or only at additional cost, if participating banks are unable to raise the necessary funds, where, for instance, financial markets are not functioning as expected or one or more banks in our Revolving Credit Facility syndicate were to default. If external financing is unavailable to us when necessary, we may have insufficient funds to continue our operations. Information concerning our credit facilities and other financings are included in the Annual Report on page 48 in the section headed “Treasury Activities” and in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 70 and 71 of the Annual Report. Our level of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations As of December 31, 2012, we have outstanding debt of $633 million, including $290 million in privately placed debt issued in 2007. We may incur additional debt for a variety of reasons. Although our revolving credit facilities do not have any financial covenants, our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or could be used for amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; • depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and • potential future tightening of the availability of capital both from financial institutions and the debt markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to access additional capital. Our customers may be unable to pay our invoices There is a risk that one or more of our major customers will be unable to pay our invoices as they become due or that a customer will simply refuse to make such payments given its financial difficulties. We invoice our major customers through their local subsidiaries in each country even for global contracts. We thus try to avoid having all of our receivables with a single multinational customer group. In each country, we also monitor invoices becoming overdue and take legal action to enforce such obligations where possible and prudent. If a major customer would enter into bankruptcy proceedings or similar proceedings whereby contractual commitments are subject to stay of execution and the possibility of legal or other modification, or if a major customer otherwise successfully procures protection against us legally enforcing its obligations, it is likely that we will be forced to record a substantial loss. 16 Table of Contents Governmental restrictions may impact our business adversely Some of our customers are owned by a governmental entity, receive various forms of governmental aid or support or are subject to governmental influence in other forms. As a result, they may be required to procure components from local suppliers to achieve a specific local content or be subject to other restrictions regarding localized content. The nature and form of any such restrictions or protections, whatever their basis, is very difficult to predict as is their potential impact. However, they are likely to be based on political rather than economical or operational considerations and may severally impact our business. We periodically review the carrying value of our assets for possible impairment; the value of one or more of our assets may not be realized if one or more of our customers cease production or decrease their production volumes and we could be required to write down amounts of certain assets and record impairment charges If one or more of our customers’ plants cease production or decrease their production volumes, the assets we carry related to our plants serving such customers may decrease in value because we may no longer be able to utilize or realize them as intended. Where such decreases are significant, whether as to specific customers or geographic areas, such impairments may have a materially adverse impact on our financial results. We periodically review the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets for possible impairment; if future circumstances indicate that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, we could be required to write down amounts of goodwill or other intangible assets and record impairment charges We monitor the various factors that impact the valuation of our goodwill and other intangible assets, including expected future cash flow levels, global economic conditions, market price for our stock, and trends with our customers. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance and especially the cash-flow performance of these goodwill assets, adverse market conditions and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations. If there are changes in these circumstances or the other variables associated with the estimates, judgments and assumptions relating to the valuation of goodwill, when assessing the valuation of our goodwill items, we may determine that it is appropriate to write down a portion of our goodwill or intangible assets and record related non-cash impairment charges. In the event that we determine that we are required to write-down a portion of our goodwill items and other intangible assets and thereby record related non-cash impairment charges, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. We face risks related to our defined benefit pension plans, including the need for additional funding as well as higher costs and liabilities Our defined benefit pension plans may require additional funding or give rise to higher related costs and liabilities which, in some circumstances, could reach material amounts and negatively affect our results of operations. We are required to make certain year-end assumptions regarding our pension plans. Our pension obligations are dependent on several factors, including factors outside our control such as changes in interest rates, the market performance of the diversified investments underlying the pension plans, actuarial data and adjustments and an increase in the minimum funding requirements or other regulatory changes governing the plans. Adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit market may have an unfavorable impact on the value of our pension assets and our future estimated pension liabilities. Internal factors such as an adjustment to the level of benefits provided under the plans may also lead to an increase in our pension liability. If these or other internal and external risks were to occur, alone or in combination, our required contributions to the plans and the costs and net liabilities associated with the plans could increase substantially and have a material effect on our business. Information concerning our defined benefit plans is included in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 76 through 79 of the Annual Report. You should not anticipate or expect the payment of cash dividends on our common stock Our dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon a number of factors, including our earnings, financial condition, cash and capital needs and general economic or business conditions. Although we currently use dividends as a way to 17 Table of Contents return value to our stockholders, during the second quarter of 2009 until the third quarter of 2010, our Board of Directors suspended our quarterly dividend after determining that a suspension was necessary in light of the decline in global light vehicle production, the uncertainty surrounding the recession at the time and the inherent risk of customer defaults. While we have resumed the payment of dividends on our common stock, in the future, there can be no assurance that the Board of Directors will continue to declare dividends. Increases in IT security threats, the sophistication of computer crime and our reliance on global data centers could expose our systems, networks, solutions and services to risks As the world’s largest automotive safety system supplier with worldwide facilities, we rely extensively on information technology (IT) systems and the use of our global data centers. These IT systems and data centers are vulnerable to disruptions, including those resulting from natural disasters, cyber-attacks or failures in third-party-provided services. Disruptions and attacks on our IT systems pose a risk to the security of our systems and our ability to protect our networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our and our customers’ data. As a result, such attacks or disruptions could potentially lead to the leakage of confidential information, including our intellectual property, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and both internal and external supply shortages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Our business is exposed to risks inherent in global operations Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations (including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act), which prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where and how we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to authorities in governmental organizations. Although we have procedures and policies in place that should mitigate the risk of violations of these laws, there is no guarantee that they will be sufficiently effective. If and when we acquire new businesses, we may not be able to ensure that the pre-existing controls and procedures meant to prevent violations of the rules and laws were effective, and we may not be able to implement effective controls and procedures to prevent violations quickly enough when integrating newly acquired businesses. We also have manufacturing and distribution facilities in many countries. Some of these countries are growth markets. International operations, especially in growth markets, are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad, including: • exposure to local economic conditions; • inability to collect, or delays in collecting, VAT withholding and other customs and taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • exposure to local political turmoil; • expropriation and nationalization; • enforcing legal agreements or collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • lack of liquidity in foreign currency due to governmental restrictions on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters; 18 Table of Contents • currency controls; • investment restrictions or requirements; and • export and import restrictions. Increasing our manufacturing footprint in the growth markets and our business relationships with automotive manufacturers in these markets are particularly important elements of our strategy. As a result, our exposure to the risks described above may be greater in the future. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential impact on us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Global integration may result in additional risks Because of our efforts to integrate our operations globally to manage cost, we face the additional risk that, should any of the other risks discussed herein materialize, the negative effects could be more pronounced. For example, while supply delays of a component have typically only affected a few customer models, such a delay could now affect several models of several customers in several geographic areas. Additionally, as we move our operations to lower-cost countries, we have witnessed an increase in our exposure to risks associated with developing countries, such as the risk of political upheaval. Similarly, should we face a recall or warranty issue due to a defective product, such a recall or warranty issue is now more likely to involve a larger number of units in several geographic areas. Exchange rate risks In addition, as a result of our global presence, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are therefore subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. Such risks and exposures include: • transaction exposure, which arises because the cost of a product originates in one currency and the product is sold in another currency; • translation exposure in the income statement, which arises when the income statements of non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars; and • translation exposure in the balance sheet, which arises when the balance sheets of non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. For example, the financial crisis during 2008-2009 caused extreme and unprecedented volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. Such fluctuations may occur again and may impact our financial results. We cannot predict when, or if, this volatility will cease or the extent of its impact on our future financial results. We typically denominate foreign transactions in foreign currencies and have not engaged in hedging transactions, although we may engage in hedging transactions from time to time in the future relating to foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, growth markets are more likely to utilize foreign currency restrictions that govern the transfer of funds out of such country. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, there is an increased risk that such foreign currency controls may create difficulty in repatriating profits from lower-cost countries in the form of taxes or other restrictions. 19 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS We face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions Our growth has been enhanced through acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies that we believe will complement our business. We regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities, frequently engage in acquisition discussions, conduct due diligence activities in connection with possible acquisitions, and, where appropriate, engage in acquisition negotiations. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we compete for acquisitions and expansion opportunities with companies that have substantially greater resources, and competition with these companies for acquisition targets could result in increased prices for possible targets. Acquisitions also involve numerous additional risks to us and our investors, including: • risk in retaining acquired management and employees; • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services and personnel of the acquired company; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of known and unknown or contingent liabilities; • adverse financial impact from the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; • incurrence of indebtedness; • potential adverse financial impact from failure of acquisitions to meet internal revenue and earnings expectations; • integration of internal controls; • entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; and • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. In the future, the best growth opportunities may be in passive safety electronics and active safety systems markets, which include and are likely to include other and often larger companies than our traditional competitors. If we fail to adequately manage these acquisition risks, the acquisitions may not result in revenue growth, operational synergies or service or technology enhancements, which could adversely affect our financial results. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY If our patents are declared invalid or our technology infringes on the proprietary rights of others, our ability to compete may be impaired We have developed a considerable amount of proprietary technology related to automotive safety systems and rely on a number of patents to protect such technology. At present, we hold more than 6,500 patents covering a large number of innovations and product ideas, mainly in the fields of seatbelt and airbag technologies. We utilize, and have often access to, the patents of our joint ventures. Our patents expire on various dates during the period 2013 to 2032. We do not expect the expiration of any single patent to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we believe that our products and technology do not infringe the proprietary rights of others, third 20 Table of Contents parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. Also, any patents now owned by us may not afford protection against competitors that develop similar technology. We primarily protect our innovations with patents and vigorously protect and defend our patents, trademarks and know-how against infringement and unauthorized use. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary rights and technology, we could lose those rights and incur substantial costs policing and defending those rights. Our means of protecting our intellectual property, proprietary rights and technology may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar or competitive technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the U.S. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights, which could result in the loss of our rights or increased costs. If claims alleging patent, copyright or trademark infringement are brought against us and successfully prosecuted against us, they could result in substantial costs. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to respond quickly enough to changes in technology and technological risks and to develop our intellectual property into commercially viable products Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive or that certain of our products will not become obsolete. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. To compete effectively in the automotive supply industry, we must be able to launch new products to meet our customers’ demand in a timely manner. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will be able to install and certify the equipment needed to produce products for new product programs in time for the start of production, or that the transitioning of our manufacturing facilities and resources to full production under new product programs will not impact production rates or other operational efficiency measures at our facilities. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our customers will execute on schedule the launch of their new product programs, for which we might supply products. Our failure to successfully launch new products, a delay by our customers in introducing our new products, or a failure by our customers to successfully launch new programs, could adversely affect our results. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS Our business may be adversely affected by environmental, occupational health and safety or other governmental regulations We are subject to the requirements of environmental, occupational health and safety and other governmental regulations in the United States and other countries. Although we have no known pending material environmental related issues, we have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. To reduce our exposure to environmental risk, we implemented an environmental plan in 1996 based on our environmental policy. According to the plan, we 21 Table of Contents sought to certify according to ISO 14001, an international standard for environmental management systems, all of our plants and units. As of December 31, 2012, 89% of our facilities representing 97% of our consolidated sales have been certified according to ISO 14001 (most of our remaining plants are new facilities which have not been certified yet). However, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all of these requirements or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts that we, at each time, may have reserved. In addition, environmental and occupational health and safety and other requirements are complex, subject to change and have tended to become more and more stringent. Accordingly, such requirements may change or become more stringent in the future. Any material environmental issues or changes in environmental or other governmental regulations may have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns Government safety regulations are a key driver in our business. Historically, these regulations have imposed ever more stringent safety regulations for vehicles and have thus been a driver of growth in our business. However, these regulations are subject to change based on a number of factors that are not within our control, including new scientific or medical data, adverse publicity regarding the safety risks of airbags or seatbelts (for instance, to children and small adults), domestic and foreign political developments or considerations, and litigation relating to our products and our competitors’ products and more. Changes in government regulations in response to these and other considerations could have a severe impact our business. Additionally, governments have different regulatory agendas at different times. An increased focus on environmental regulations relating to automobiles such as green-house gas emissions or gas mileage instead of safety regulations may impact the safety content of vehicles. Although we believe that over time safety will continue to be a regulatory priority, if government priorities shift and we are unable to adapt to changing regulations our business may suffer material adverse effects. Additional information relating to our environmental management is included in the Annual Report in the section “Contribution to Protecting the Environment” on page 20 and in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section “Environmental” on page 52 of the Annual Report. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition We are subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions, which are inherently uncertain. Negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits in jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles or in their application with respect to matters such as tax rates, transfer pricing, dividends, restrictions on certain forms of tax relief or limitations on favorable tax treatment could affect our effective tax rate in the United States or in other countries and, as a result, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. For example, our ability to take advantage of expected favorable tax treatment (including those associated with R&D credits and loss carry forwards) may be significantly impaired as a result of changes to the conditions associated with such favorable treatments. Such changes may be the result of general attempts to remedy fiscal deficits or implement shifts in social policies, such as discouraging headcount reductions or similar actions. 22 Table of Contents The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, is currently unable to inspect the audit work of auditors working in Sweden, including our auditor Because we are a public company in the U.S., our auditor is required to undergo regular PCAOB inspections to assess compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with its audit of our financial statements filed with the SEC. The PCAOB, however, is currently unable to inspect the audit work and practices of auditors in Sweden, where our head office is located, even if they are, as our auditors, part of a major U.S. based international accounting firm. As a result, if the PCAOB and Sweden are unable to reach an agreement allowing access, investors who rely on our auditor’s audit reports are deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections of our auditor. Management of the Company expects our auditor to adhere to the highest applicable standards and to take measures to ensure that these standards are consistent with the requirements of the PCAOB. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that PCAOB inspections could strengthen the adherence to such standards and/or detect failures to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 