ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Changes in the source and availability of raw materials and components. Our business uses a broad range of raw materials and components in the manufacture of our products, nearly all of which are generally available from a number of qualified suppliers. Peaks in worldwide demand for certain raw materials have had an impact on raw material costs and availability. Our business has not generally experienced significant or long-term difficulty in obtaining raw materials. However, the cost of direct materials amounts to approximately 50% of our sales. Of the direct materials costs, approximately 36% comprise raw materials costs and approximately 64% comprise value added costs by the supply chain. A significant increase in the price of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our profit margin. Delays or stoppages in the delivery of components that are produced by a single supplier would result in supply interruption to our customers and could negatively impact our business. We depend in certain instances on a single supplier for certain components relating to particular customer programs. The failure of these suppliers to perform as expected could result in us being unable to supply complete products to our customers in a timely manner. This non-performance on the part of our suppliers may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. Such non-performance could cause our customers to halt their own production processes. In such instances, we may lose income due to the reduced volume of supplied products and may also be exposed to the risk that our customers may seek to recoup from us consequential losses incurred as a result of their lost production. Our business is exposed to risks inherent in global operations. Our joint ventures and foreign subsidiaries may be subject to the usual risks inherent in global operations, including, but not limited to: risks with respect to currency exchange rates; economic and political destabilization; other disruption of markets; restrictive laws and actions of certain governments (such as restrictions on transfers of funds, export duties and quotas, foreign customs and tariffs and unexpected changes in regulatory environments); difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; nationalization; and the laws and policies of mainly the United States, the European Union, Japan, China and the World Trade Organization affecting trade, investment and loans; and tax laws. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our patents are declared invalid or our technology infringes on the proprietary rights of others, our ability to compete may be impaired. We have developed a considerable amount of proprietary technology related to car occupant restraint systems and rely on a number of patents to protect such technology. We primarily protect our innovations with patents, and vigorously protect and defend our patents, trademarks and know-how against infringement and unauthorized use. At present, we hold approximately 3,500 patents covering a large number of innovations and product ideas, mainly in the fields of seat belt and airbag technologies. We utilize, and have access to, the patents of our joint ventures. These patents expire on various dates during the period 2006 to 2025. We do not expect the expiration of any single patent to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we believe that our products and technology do not infringe the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. There can also be no assurance that any patents now owned by us will afford protection against competitors that develop similar technology. The cyclicality of automotive production and sales could adversely affect our business. Our customers are automobile manufacturers whose production volumes are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of consumer spending. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences. In addition, automotive production and sales can be affected by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. The volume of automotive production in our most important markets in Europe, North America, and Asia has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Any significant economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production and sales by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. As a result of the high market concentration, we are dependent on a relatively small number of automobile manufacturers with strong purchasing power. Our three largest customers represented 48% of our combined sales for 2005, with Ford (including Volvo) accounting for 21%, Renault/Nissan accounting for 14% and GM companies accounting for 13%. Our largest contract accounted for 5% of our total fiscal 2005 sales. This contract is due to expire in 2009. Although business with any given customer is typically split into several contracts (usually one contract per vehicle model), the loss of all of the business of certain customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, automobile manufacturers seek competitive quotes from suppliers and demand significant price reductions over a product's life cycle. In line with our customers' purchasing strategies, we have implemented cost-saving programs that management believes will help reduce our own material, production and administrative costs. Information concerning our major customers is included in the section "Creating Shareholder Value" on page 13 and in Note 19 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 50 of the Annual Report, and is incorporated herein by reference. Escalating pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. Our industry has been characterized by pricing pressure from customers in recent years. This trend is partly attributable to the major automobile manufacturers' strong purchasing power. Similar to other automobile component manufacturers, we expect to quote, under certain circumstances, fixed or maximum prices for long-term supply arrangements. Our future profitability will depend upon, among other things, our ability to continue to reduce our per unit costs and maintain a cost structure, internally and with our suppliers, that will enable us to remain cost-competitive. Our profitability may also be influenced by our success in designing and marketing technological improvements in car occupant restraint systems. If we are unable to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, these price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional information on pricing pressure is included in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis" section "Risks and Risk Management" on page 29 of the Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. Each vehicle manufacturer has its own practices regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with recalls and product liability claims. A recall claim or a product liability claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance may have a material adverse effect on our business. Vehicle manufacturers are also increasingly requiring their outside suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and bear the costs of repair and replacement of such products under new vehicle warranties. A vehicle manufacturer may attempt to hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of defective products under new vehicle warranties, when the product supplied did not perform as represented. Accordingly, the future costs of warranty claims by our customers may be material. However, we believe our established reserves are adequate to cover potential warranty settlements. Our warranty reserves are based upon our best estimates of amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims. Although we regularly evaluate the appropriateness of these reserves, and adjust them when appropriate, the final amounts determined to be due related to these matters could differ materially from our recorded estimates. Our business may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all of these requirements, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts we have reserved. Such regulations are subject to a number of factors that are not within our control, including adverse publicity regarding the safety risks of airbags to children and small adults, domestic and foreign political developments, and litigation relating to our products and our competitors' products. In addition, these requirements are complex, subject to change and have tended to become more and more stringent. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that such requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future. To reduce our exposure to environmental risk, we implemented an environmental plan in 1996 based on our environmental policy. According to the plan, we sought to certify according to ISO 14001, an international standard for environmental management systems, all our plants and units. To date, 57 of our facilities, representing more than 95% of our consolidated sales, have been certified according to ISO 14001. We have no pending material environmental related issues. We have however made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. There can be no assurance that those regulatory developments or adverse publicity will not adversely affect customer demand for our automotive safety products. Such changes could also result in slower increases, or in decreases, in demand for automotive safety products in other countries. Additional information relating to our environmental management is included in the "Corporate Social Responsibility" section "Environment - A Competitive Tool" on page 19 of the Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference. Loss of market share by domestic vehicle manufacturers may adversely affect our results in the future. In recent years, the Big Three (Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation and the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler AG) have seen a decline in their market share for vehicle sales in North America and Europe, with Asian automobile manufacturers increasing their share in such markets. Although we do have business with the Asian automobile manufacturers, a portion of our customer base derives from the Big Three. Accordingly, if this trend of Big Three loss in market share should continue and our share of business with Asian vehicle manufacturers does not increase, our results could be adversely affected. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our customers' facilities or at our facilities could adversely affect our operations. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While labor contract negotiations at our locations historically have rarely resulted in work stoppages, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions or that our failure to do so will not result in work stoppages. A work stoppage at one or more of our plants may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly engineers and other employees with electronics and software expertise. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate in highly competitive markets. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with a number of other manufacturers that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, manufacturing and distribution capability, product design, product quality, product delivery and product service. Some of our competitors are companies, or divisions, units or subsidiaries of companies, that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors. In addition, our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than we can or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving regulatory, industry or customer requirements. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully with their products. We may encounter increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new competitors. We may be unable to make the technological advances necessary to carry out product innovations sufficient to meet our customers' demands. Certain areas of our business, in particular restraint and protection systems utilizing airbags, are subject to technological change. While we believe that, through our research and development activities, our product range will keep pace with changing technologies, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by others will not reduce the competitiveness of our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 