ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and future results could be adversely impacted. The current challenging economic conditions in the United States may continue to adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The current challenging economic conditions in the United States may continue to adversely affect our operating results and the broadcast industry in general by, among other things, reducing demand for local and national broadcast advertising and making it more difficult for customers to pay their accounts. Some companies have experienced downward pressure on their stock price and credit capacity without regard to their underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may continue to be adversely affected, possibly materially. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted which could reduce our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any such disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. In addition, our cash balances will not yield significant interest income in this low-interest rate environment. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and other discretionary uses of cash. Uncertainty about current economic conditions could also affect the volatility of our stock price. We cannot predict the timing, magnitude or duration of the current (or any future) economic downturn or any subsequent recovery. We depend on advertising revenues, which fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Our main source of revenue is the sale of advertising. Our ability to sell advertising depends on many factors, including the following: • the health of the economy, and particularly the economy of the Pacific Northwest region and Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon; • the popularity of our programming; • pricing fluctuations in local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media, particularly network, cable television, direct satellite television and radio, and the Internet; • the use of new services and devices which allow viewers to minimize commercial advertisements, such as satellite radio and personal digital video recorders; • increased competition for the leisure time of audiences, including video-on-demand, video game consoles, personal computers and other sources of home entertainment; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; • level of consumer confidence; • level of corporate profits and capital spending; • level of political advertising spending; • advertisers’ budgets, which are affected by broad economic trends; 22 • size and demographic characteristics of our markets, especially the Pacific Northwest region; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. Our net advertising revenue decreased 30% in 2009 compared to 2008 due to adverse developments in many of the above factors, including, without limitation, the health of the national and Pacific Northwest economies and 2009 being an off political spending year. If the revenue decrease continues, it will adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, and as a result, second and fourth quarter broadcasting revenue is typically greater than first and third quarter broadcasting revenue. This seasonality is primarily attributable to increased consumer advertising in the spring and then increased retail advertising in anticipation of holiday season spending. Furthermore, revenue from political advertising is cyclical and varies based on the timing of federal, state, and local elections, as well as the presence of highly contested initiatives or ballot measures. In light of the recent United States Supreme Court decision in Citizens United v. FEC in which the court struck down federal laws banning independent electoral and issue advocacy sponsored by nonprofit and for-profit corporations, we may experience higher than normal political advertising revenue in the future, including in 2010, although we are currently unable to predict whether any increases will occur in light of the current national and local economic conditions and other factors. Also, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could cause us to lose our ability to operate our stations or, if we are able to broadcast, our broadcast operations may shift to around-the-clock news coverage, which would cause the loss of advertising revenues due to the suspension of advertising-supported commercial programming. We incurred losses during 2009. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. During 2009, we had a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $14 million, compared to income from continuing operations before income taxes of $71 million and $47 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively. The results for 2008 include $153 million of income from our sale of shares of Safeco Corporation common stock and a $78 million impairment charge for goodwill, intangibles and equity investments, and 2007 includes $40 million of income also resulting from our sale of shares of Safeco Corporation common stock. We cannot assure you that our plans to improve operating performance will be successful or that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future, especially given the current state of the national and regional economies and the resulting decrease in advertising revenues. Because significant portions of our cost of services are relatively fixed, downturns in the economy harm our operations, revenue, cash flow and earnings. Nearly all of our operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest region. The Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon markets are particularly important for our financial strength. Operating results over the past several years, including 2009, have been adversely impacted by the negative state of the Pacific Northwest regional economy. Continued weak economic conditions in these markets would harm our operations and financial condition. Because significant portions of our costs of services are relatively fixed, we may be unable to materially reduce costs to offset declines in our revenues. As a result, we could continue to suffer net losses, which could increase if the current economic conditions deteriorate further. In addition, the significant downturn in the national economy that began in 2008 resulted (and may in the future continue to result) in decreased national advertising sales. If this continues, it could harm our results of operations because national advertising sales represent a significant portion of our television advertising net revenue. The current economic downturn has particularly affected certain key categories of national and local broadcast advertising segments, including specifically, the automotive industry, which represents the largest 23 spending category in the broadcasting industry. Reductions in advertising spending by key segments in 2009 negatively affected our financial results, and a prolonged downturn in these industries could continue to harm our operations, revenue, cash flows and earnings. Continued difficulties in the automotive, retail and other key advertising categories could materially affect our results and the value of our common stock. A significant portion of our revenue consists of advertising by companies in the retail and automotive sectors. Continued difficulties, including bankruptcies, in these and other key industries, have adversely affected total advertising expenditures in the United States. For example, on the national level, automotive-related advertising decreased 28% from 2008 to 2009, retail-related advertising decreased 12% from 2008 to 2009 and professional services-related advertising decreased 15% from 2008 to 2009. Reductions in spending by these and other industries over the course of 2010 could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, and the value of our common stock. We have a significant amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments of these assets in the past. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income or increase net loss, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our common stock. We currently have approximately $55.2 million of goodwill, intangibles and equity investments included in our total assets, which represents approximately 17% of our total assets. We test goodwill at the reporting unit level and intangible assets annually in October or whenever certain triggering events or circumstances occur, including, but not limited to changing business conditions and outlook, significant slowdown in the economic environment, and significant reduction in our market capitalization, indicating that goodwill or intangible assets might be impaired. Recent trends in advertising revenues have adversely affected investors’ outlooks on our market value. If revenue trends continue to worsen, this may be considered an indicator of impairment and could require us to perform an impairment analysis in advance of our annual impairment testing. In addition, any significant shortfall in advertising revenue could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting segments. If impairment is indicated as a result of future evaluations, we would record a further impairment charge in accordance with accounting rules, which would reduce any reported net income or increase any reported net loss for the period in which the charge is taken, and which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We may need to take additional impairments in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of our future impairments. As a result, we could recognize further impairments in future quarters on the approximately $55.2 million goodwill, intangibles and equity investment currently included in our total assets. Unfavorable resolution of tax returns and positions could adversely affect our tax expense and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, and local taxing authorities. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the year 2006 and onward. The IRS completed its field examination of our 2006 and 2007 U.S. tax returns in June 2009 and we paid $856,000 for the settlement of this examination, as well as $31,000 in interest expense. An unfavorable outcome to a U.S. tax audit or any other tax audit could result in higher tax costs and payments, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations and cash flows. Our federal and state income tax returns are subject to periodic examination, and the tax authorities may challenge certain of our tax positions as a result of examinations. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and we would vigorously defend these positions if challenged. The final disposition of any positions challenged by the tax authorities could require us to make additional tax payments. Such a resolution could also materially affect our effective tax rate for future periods. 24 Our operating results are dependent on the success of programming aired by our television and radio stations, which depends in part upon factors beyond our control. Our advertising revenues are dependent on the success of our local, network and syndicated programming. We make significant commitments to acquire rights to television and radio programs under multi-year agreements. The success of such programs is dependent partly upon unpredictable factors such as audience preferences, competing programming, and the availability of other entertainment activities. If a particular program is not popular in relation to its costs, we may not be able to sell enough advertising to cover the costs of the program. In some instances, we may have to replace or cancel programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase operating costs. Our Seattle and Portland television stations, which accounted for approximately 62% of our television broadcasting revenue in 2009, are affiliated with the ABC Television Network, nine of our television stations are affiliated with the CBS Television Network (including a 50%-owned television station), one of our television stations is affiliated with the FOX Television Network, six of our television stations are affiliated with Univision (Spanish language) and the remainder of our television stations are independent. Any performance decline by ABC, CBS, or by other networks or network program suppliers, could harm our business and operating results. We rely on our stations’ ratings points when determining the advertising rates that we receive. The use of new ratings technologies and measurements could impact our program ratings and reduce advertising pricing and spending. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Programming is a significant operating cost in our television businesses. There can be no assurances that we will not be exposed to future increases in programming costs, including, without limitation, for network programming. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, television networks have been seeking arrangements with their affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs and to eliminate networks compensation traditionally paid to broadcast affiliates. We cannot predict the nature of scope of any such potential compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. Acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In addition, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or a decline in the expected popularity of the programming for which we have acquired rights could lead to less than expected revenue which could result in programming write-offs. Additionally, in some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs. These write-offs increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. An increase in the cost of news programming and content or in the costs for on-air and creative talent may also increase our expenses, particularly during events requiring extended news coverage, and therefore adversely affect our business and operating results. Radio and television programming revenue may be negatively affected by the cancellation of syndication agreements. Syndication agreements are licenses to broadcast programs that are produced by production companies. Such programming can form a significant component of a station’s programming schedule. Syndication agreements are subject to cancellation, which may affect a station’s programming schedule, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire rights to syndicated programs once our current contracts for these programs end. Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt, in the form of 8.625% senior notes due 2014, in the aggregate principal amount of $122.1 million. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to the current general adverse economic and industry conditions and resulting downturn in our business; 25 • reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general business purposes; • reduce the funds available to purchase the rights to television and radio programs; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industries, making us more vulnerable to economic downturns, including the current one; • limit our ability to raise additional funding; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. If our indebtedness produces such adverse effects, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could suffer, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Furthermore, the indenture governing our 8.625% senior notes due 2014 permits us to incur additional debt only if we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with other covenants. Refer to Note 10 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the covenants included in the indenture. The failure to comply with the covenants in the indenture could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our payment obligations under the notes. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion of our indebtedness. The non-renewal, modification, or cancellation of affiliation agreements with major television networks, including our affiliation agreement with FOX Network for KBFX which expires in 2010, could harm our operating results. Each of our television stations’ affiliation with one of the four major television networks has a significant impact on the composition of the station’s programming, revenue, expenses and operations. In some instances, network affiliation agreements are not renewed, or in limited circumstances, may be cancelled by the network. For example, if a network acquires a television station in a market in which we own a station affiliated with that network, the network will likely decline to renew the affiliation agreement for our station in that market. Our two largest television stations, KOMO-TV, which broadcasts in Seattle, Washington, and KATU, which broadcasts in Portland, Oregon, have affiliation agreements with ABC Network with current terms expiring in August 2014. The major network affiliations for our television stations other than KOMO-TV and KATU are with CBS or FOX. Our affiliation agreements with CBS generally expire in February 2016. Our only affiliation agreement with the FOX Network expires, at KBFX, in June 2010. The non-renewal of any of our major network affiliation agreements could adversely affect our business and results. While we generally expect to renew our affiliation agreements prior to their expiration, there can be no assurances that we will do so, or on terms that are beneficial to us. Although none of our affiliation agreements with CBS or ABC are scheduled for renewal in 2010, any modification, cancellation or eventual non-renewal of any of these agreements could harm our operating results. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated may require as a condition to the renewal of affiliation agreements, among other things, elimination of network affiliate compensation and, in some cases, cash payments to the network. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not remain in place under existing terms and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to affiliates on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation. If this occurs, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include the following: • increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; 26 • short-term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; • costs of building a new or larger news operation and other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and • the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation, if any. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network’s audience share and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network’s programming is accepted in an individual market. There can be no assurances that any future affiliation agreement will be obtainable on economic terms or other conditions that will be favorable to us, nor that any network could not change the type, quality or quantity of programming provided to us in a way that could be detrimental to our operations. Competition in the broadcasting industry and the rise of alternative entertainment and communications media may result in loss of audience share and advertising revenue by our stations. Our television and radio stations face intense competition, including competition from the following sources: • other local network affiliates and independent stations; • cable, direct broadcast satellite and alternative methods of broadcasting brought about by technological advances and innovations, including pay-per-view and home video and entertainment systems; • television networks and other programmers that have begun to distribute their programming directly to the consumer via the Internet and portable digital devices such as video iPods and mobile phones; and • other sources of news, information and entertainment, including streaming video broadcasts over the Internet, podcasting, newspapers, magazines, movie theaters and live sporting events. In addition to competing with other media outlets for audience share, we also compete for advertising revenue that comprises our primary source of revenue. Our stations compete for advertising revenue with other television and radio stations in their respective markets, as well as with other advertising media such as newspapers, the Internet, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directory, direct mail and local cable systems. Cable companies and others have developed national advertising networks in recent years that increase the competition for national advertising. Our stations also compete against other local media outlets for exclusive local access to programming. Competition for non-network programming involves negotiating with national program distributors or syndicators that sell first-run and off-network packages of programming. Our operating results are dependent in part upon the ability of each of our stations to compete successfully in its market, and there can be no assurance that any one of our stations will be able to maintain or increase its current audience share or revenue share. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Advertising rates are set based upon a variety of factors, including a program’s popularity among the advertiser’s target audience, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the demographic make-up of the market served and the availability of alternative advertising in the market. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. To the extent that certain of our competitors have, or may in the future obtain, greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources, audience share or revenue share, our ability to compete successfully in our broadcasting markets may be impeded. 27 If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television and radio businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could continue to adversely affect our television and radio stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives including cable, direct satellite-to-home services, video provided by telephone companies, satellite radio, pay-per-view, the Internet, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems, portable entertainment systems, MP3 players, and mobile phones have fractionalized television and radio audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes including the increased usage of video-on-demand have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire desired programming. Technologies that enable users to view content of their own choosing, in their own time, and to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as DVRs, portable digital devices, video-on-demand, and the Internet, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers. Other advances in technology, such as increasing use of local-cable advertising “interconnects,” which allow for easier insertion of advertising on local cable systems, have also increased competition for advertisers. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites and potentially soon for cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our television businesses. Our inability to effectively respond to these technological changes may result in our inability to effectively compete for advertising revenue and programming. In recent years, the television networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those owned by us. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by local stations and could adversely affect our stations’ results of operations. Pending initiatives to reallocate television spectrum and to impose a performance tax on radio broadcasters could, if enacted, adversely affect our business, operation results and stock price. New mobile communications technologies are increasingly offering Internet broadband services using wireless spectrum. Recently, in connection with the FCC’s development of a National Broadband Plan—a plan the FCC is required to develop pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 to ensure wide access to broadband capability throughout the United States—various parties, in particular mobile communications providers, have expressed concern that the United States will not have spectrum sufficient to meet demand for wireless broadband services in the near future. In response, the FCC is in the process of reviewing various spectrum bands, including the bands currently licensed to television broadcasters, to determine if all or a portion of the spectrum within these bands may be repurposed for wireless broadband services. Various scenarios are being considered, including voluntary reallocation of spectrum that broadcasters agree to surrender, which may be all or a portion of a particular station’s spectrum, and compensation to broadcasters from the proceeds from the auction of reallocated spectrum to other services. This reallocation could limit our ability to realize the full potential of digital television, including high definition, multicast programming, and mobile 28 television. Related reductions in the quality or quantity of our services may impede our ability to compete for programming, diminish the size of our audience, or reduce our advertising revenues. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any proposals made in this proceeding; however, the reallocation of all or some portions of our television stations’ spectrum and increased competition from new mobile communications technologies could materially affect our operating results, financial condition and stock price. The recording industry has requested that Congress impose a performance tax on radio broadcasters that would require local stations to pay record labels and performers for the music they air on the radio without charge to listeners. This tax would be in addition to the license fees paid by broadcasters to writers and composers. If enacted a performance tax such as this could materially affect the financial results of our radio stations. We may experience disruptions in our business if we sell or acquire and integrate new television or radio stations. As part of our business strategy and subject to market conditions, we plan to continue to evaluate opportunities to sell or acquire television and radio stations. If we make acquisitions in the future, we may need to use more of our existing cash, incur more debt, or issue equity securities, and we may incur contingent liabilities and amortization and/or impairment expenses related to intangible assets. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will find other attractive acquisition candidates or effectively manage the integration of acquired stations into our existing business. If the expected operating efficiencies from acquisitions do not materialize, if we fail to integrate new stations or recently acquired stations into our existing business, if the costs of such integration exceed expectations or if undertaking such sales or acquisitions diverts management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, television and radio station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television or radio stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations Changes in FCC regulations regarding ownership have increased the uncertainty surrounding the competitive position of our stations in the markets we serve. Section 202(h) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires the FCC to review its ownership rules every four years to “determine whether any of such rules are necessary in the public interest as the result of competition.” Under Section 202(h), the FCC “shall repeal or modify any regulation it determines to be no longer in the public interest.” Recently, the FCC commenced its 2010 Quadrennial Review of its media ownership rules and is conducting a series of public forums and workshops designed to collect information and solicit public input for the 2010 review. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding nor the effect that any particular outcome will have on our stations and business. The FCC concluded its 2006 Quadrennial Review in February 2008, in which the FCC also addressed issues raised by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in connection with the Third Circuit’s review of the FCC’s 2002 ownership rule review. In the 2002 review, the FCC relaxed certain of its local media ownership rules, including its local television ownership limitations and its prohibition against common ownership of newspapers and broadcast stations in the same market. It also modified its local radio ownership limitations in a way that could limit our ability to acquire additional radio stations in existing markets that we serve. The FCC’s new rules were to have become effective on September 4, 2003, but were stayed by the Third Circuit. In June 2004, the court remanded the new rules to the FCC with instructions to undertake additional analysis of the record in order to justify its decision. In September 2004, the Third Circuit court lifted its stay insofar as it 29 applied to the modified local radio ownership rules, which are largely in effect. In the 2008 remand order, the FCC liberalized its broadcast/newspaper cross-ownership rule and declined to modify its other ownership rules (which, except for the modified local radio ownership rules, are currently in effect as effective prior to the FCC’s 2002 review). Because the Third Circuit stayed the effectiveness of any modifications to the ownership rules until it reviews the FCC’s compliance with its June 2004 order, the 2008 broadcast/newspaper cross-ownership rule modification will not go into effect until the court has completed its review. A number of media companies and public interest groups have challenged the FCC’s February 2008 order before the Third Circuit, and others have asked the FCC to reconsider the order. Those challenges remain pending. In December 2009, the Third Circuit asked the FCC to explain why the court should not lift its stay on the effectiveness of the 2008 broadcast/newspaper cross-ownership rule modification and start hearing the new appeals. In response, the FCC requested that the court’s stay remain in place and the challenges held in abeyance until the FCC has completed its 2010 Quadrennial Review. Under existing law a single entity is permitted to have an attributable interest in television stations serving up to 39% of U.S. television households. The 39% cap is statutorily excluded from the FCC quadrennial review requirement. Large broadcast groups may take advantage of this law to expand further their ownership interests on a national basis. Any relaxation of ownership restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to those with greater financial and other resources than we possess. We expect that the consolidation of ownership of broadcasting and newspapers in the hands of a smaller number of competitors would intensify the competition in our markets, which could harm our future operating results. Changes in laws and regulations of the broadcasting industry and changes in enforcement policies may have an adverse effect on our business. The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Compliance with and the effects of existing and future regulations could have a material adverse impact on us. We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio and television stations. Issuance, renewal, assignment, or transfer of broadcast station operating licenses requires FCC approval. Under the Communications Act, the FCC generally may grant and renew broadcast licenses for terms of eight years, though licenses may be renewed for a shorter period or denied under certain circumstances. While the majority of such licenses are renewed by the FCC, we cannot assure you that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates, or, if renewed, that the renewal terms will be for eight years. If the FCC decides to include conditions or qualifications in any of our licenses, we may be limited in the manner in which we may operate the affected stations. Except for KATU (and KATU’s translator stations), FCC licenses for our various television and radio stations expire in 2013, 2014 or 2015. The license renewal application for KATU (and KATU’s translator stations) for the term expiring February 1, 2007, was timely filed in September 2006. On December 22, 2006, a petition to deny was filed by Oregon Alliance to Reform Media, or OARM, against KATU and seven other television stations licensed to serve the Portland, Oregon market. OARM argued that the stations each failed to present adequate programming relating to state and local elections during the 2004 election cycle in their news and public affairs programming. The FCC’s Media Bureau rejected OARM’s petition. However, on September 14, 2007, OARM petitioned the FCC for reconsideration of that decision. That petition remains pending, and we cannot predict when or how the FCC will address it. KATU’s authority to operate is automatically extended while its renewal application is on file and under review. We must comply with extensive FCC ownership regulations and policies. In general, the FCC’s ownership rules limit the number of television and radio stations that we can own in a market and the number of television stations we can own nationwide. The FCC attributes interests held by, among others, a licensee entity’s officers, directors, certain stockholders, and in some circumstances, lenders, to that entity for purposes of applying these 30 ownership limitations. The ownership rules may prevent us from acquiring additional stations in a particular market. We may also be prevented from engaging in a swap transaction if the swap would cause the other company to violate these rules. We may further be prevented from implementing certain joint operations with competitors which might make the operation of our stations more efficient. Federal legislation and FCC rules have changed significantly in recent years and can be expected to continue to change. These changes may limit our ability to conduct our business in ways that we believe would be advantageous and may thereby affect our operating results. Federal law and the FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time, and the broadcast of indecent or profane material during the period from 6 a.m. through 10 p.m. In recent years, the FCC has vigorously enforced its indecency prohibition, and in 2006, legislation was enacted that raised the maximum monetary penalty for the broadcast of obscene, indecent, or profane language to $325,000 for each “violation,” with a cap of $3 million for any “single act.” The determination of whether content is indecent or profane is inherently subjective, creates uncertainty as to our ability to comply with the rules (in particular during live programming), and impacts our programming decisions. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In recent years, the FCC has also vigorously enforced a number of other rules, typically in connection with license renewals. For example, in recent years, the FCC has issued fines and sanctions for violations of its equal employment opportunity rules, public inspection file rules, children’s programming rules, commercial time limits rules, sponsorship identification rules, closed captioning rules, station-conducted contest rules, and emergency alert system rules. If we are unable to secure or maintain carriage of our television stations’ signals over cable and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, our television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to FCC rules, local television stations may elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the station’s primary programming stream or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage, which may include carriage of a station’s primary and multicast programming streams. Unless a retransmission consent agreement is reached, cable and direct satellite operators are not required to carry our multicast programming streams. At present, we have retransmission consent agreements with the major cable operators in our markets and both satellite providers, including carriage of certain of our multicast programming streams. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on less favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. Dependence on key personnel may expose us to additional risks. Our business is dependent on the performance of certain key employees, including executive officers and senior operational personnel. While we have entered into change of control agreements with some of our key executives, we do not enter into employment agreements with most of our key executive officers and senior operational personnel. We also employ several on-air personalities who have significant loyal audiences in their respective markets, with whom we have entered into employment agreements. We cannot assure you that all such key personnel or on-air personalities will remain with us or that our on-air personalities will renew their contracts. The loss of any key personnel could harm our operations and financial results. Failure of our information technology systems would disrupt our operations, which could reduce our customer base and result in lost revenue. Our computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, unauthorized tampering, system failures and potential obsolescence. Our operations depend on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers and computer systems are 31 vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Our computer systems are also subject to potential system failures and obsolescence. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data that would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our ownership and operation of Fisher Plaza is subject to risks, including those relating to the economic climate, local real estate conditions, potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, potential collection problems, reliance on significant tenants, and regulatory risks. Revenue and operating income from, and the value of, Fisher Plaza may be adversely affected by the general economic climate, the Seattle economic climate and real estate conditions, including prospective tenants’ perceptions of the attractiveness of the property and the availability of space in other competing properties. In addition, the economic conditions in the telecommunications and high-tech sectors may significantly affect our ability to attract tenants to Fisher Plaza, because space at Fisher Plaza is marketed in significant part to organizations from these sectors. Other risks relating to the operation of Fisher Plaza include the potential inability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance, and the potential inability to collect rent, due to bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, especially in light of the current difficult economic environment. We also risk facing lower rents due to the current economic downturn and abundance of available commercial space in downtown Seattle. Real estate income and values may also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rent loss insurance with respect to Fisher Plaza. There are, however, certain losses that may be either uninsurable, not economically insurable, or in excess of our current insurance coverage limits. If an uninsured loss occurs, it could harm our operating results. For example, on July 2, 2009, an electrical fire contained within a garage level equipment room of the east building of Fisher Plaza disrupted city-supplied electrical service to that building. A third-party investigation concluded that the fire appears to have been caused by a malfunction of bus duct equipment manufactured by a third-party. We incurred approximately $6.8 million in expenditures related to the Fisher Plaza fire, comprised of remediation expenses of $3.7 million and capital expenditures of $3.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized in the consolidated statement of operations, total Plaza fire expenses of $2.7 million, consisting of a $1.5 million loss on fixed assets destroyed by the fire plus the above mentioned $3.7 million of remediation expenses offset by $2.5 million of insurance reimbursements. Our insurers have indicated that the event is a covered occurrence under the applicable insurance policies, and they continue to investigate the incident. We currently expect that a significant portion of our incurred costs will be covered by our insurance policies. However, the actual amount and timing of the reimbursement remains subject to the insurance companies’ investigation. We intend to vigorously assert all of our claims related to the Fisher Plaza fire as necessary. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, if identified in future periods, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to audit and provide a separate opinion on their evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting. To issue our report, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. If we or our independent registered public 32 accountants discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Our operations may be adversely affected by earthquakes and other natural catastrophes in the Pacific Northwest or California. Our corporate headquarters, Fisher Plaza and the majority of our operations are located in the Pacific Northwest and we own two television stations in California. The Pacific Northwest and California have from time to time experienced earthquakes. We do not know the ultimate impact on our operations of being located near major earthquake faults, but an earthquake could harm our operating results. Our broadcasting towers may also be affected by other natural catastrophes, such as forest fires. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes or other natural catastrophes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 