1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Readers of our annual report on Form 10-K should also read our Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and other publicly filed documents for further discussion regarding such factors. As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” refer to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are a Maryland corporation formed in October 1994 that has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We are the largest owner and pre-eminent first-in-class REIT focused principally on science-driven cluster formation. We are the leading provider of high-quality environmentally sustainable real estate, technical infrastructure and services to the broad and diverse life science industry. Client tenants include institutional (universities and independent not-for-profit institutions), pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, product, service and translational entities, as well as government agencies. Our operating platform is based on the principle of “clustering,” with assets and operations located in key life science markets. As of December 31, 2009, we had 156 properties (152 properties located in ten states in the United States and four properties located in Canada) containing approximately 12.7 million rentable square feet (including spaces undergoing active redevelopment) and properties undergoing ground-up development of approximately 980,000 rentable square feet. Business and strategy We focus our property operations and investment activities principally in the following life science markets: · California – San Diego; · California – San Francisco Bay; · Eastern Massachusetts; · New Jersey/Suburban Philadelphia; · New York City; · Southeast; · Suburban Washington, D.C.; · Washington – Seattle; and · International. Our client tenant base is broad and diverse within the life science industry and reflects our focus on regional, national and international tenants with substantial financial and operational resources. For a more detailed description of our properties and tenants, see “Item 2. Properties.” We have an experienced board of directors and are led by a senior management team with extensive experience in both the real estate and life science industries. 2009 demonstrated the strength and durability of our core operations providing office/laboratory space to the broad and diverse life science industry. Our core operating results were relatively steady for the year ended December 31, 2009, during the continuing extraordinary and unprecedented United States and worldwide economic, financial, banking and credit market crises, significant worldwide economic recession and drastic decline in consumer confidence and the consumer driven economy. Financial systems throughout the world have recently experienced significant periods of illiquidity with banks much less willing to lend substantial amounts to other banks and borrowers. The economic, financial and banking environment and consumer confidence have improved since the depth of the crisis in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009. Even with the recent improvements, we remain cautious regarding the economic, financial and banking environment. We intend to continue to focus on the completion of our existing active redevelopment projects aggregating approximately 575,152 rentable square feet and our existing active development projects aggregating approximately an additional 980,000 rentable square feet. Additionally, we intend to continue with preconstruction activities for certain land parcels for future ground-up/vertical above ground development in order to preserve and create value for these projects. These important preconstruction activities add significant value to our land for future ground-up development and are required for the ultimate vertical construction of the buildings. We also intend to be very careful and prudent with any future decisions to add new projects to our active ground-up/vertical developments. Future ground-up/vertical development projects will likely require significant pre-leasing from high quality and/or credit entities. We also intend to continue to reduce debt as a percentage of our overall capital structure over a multi-year period. During this period, we may also extend and/or refinance certain debt maturities. We expect the source of funds for construction activities and repayment of outstanding debt to be provided over several years by opportunistic sales of real estate, joint ventures, cash flows from operations, new secured or unsecured debt and the issuance of additional equity securities, as appropriate. As of December 31, 2009, we had identified three assets as “held for sale,” which have been classified in discontinued operations. 2 We seek to maximize funds from operations (“FFO”), balance sheet liquidity and flexibility and cash available for distribution to our stockholders through the ownership, operation, management and selective redevelopment, development and acquisition of life science properties, as well as management of our balance sheet. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Funds From Operations” for a discussion of how we compute and view FFO, as well as a discussion of other measures of cash flow. In particular, we seek to maximize FFO, balance sheet liquidity and flexibility and cash available for distribution by: · maintaining a strong, liquid and flexible balance sheet; · re-tenanting and re-leasing space at higher rental rates while minimizing tenant improvement costs; · maintaining solid occupancy while also maintaining high lease rental rates; · realizing contractual rental rate escalations, which are currently provided for in approximately 93% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis); · implementing effective cost control measures, including negotiating pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses and certain capital expenditures; · improving investment returns through leasing of vacant space and replacement of existing tenants with new tenants at higher rental rates; · achieving higher rental rates from existing tenants as existing leases expire; · selectively redeveloping existing office, warehouse, shell space or newly acquired properties into generic laboratory space that can be leased at higher rental rates in our target life science cluster markets; and · selectively developing properties in our target life science cluster markets. Redevelopment A key component of our long term business model is the redevelopment of existing office, warehouse or shell space as generic office/laboratory space, including the conversion of single tenancy space to multi-tenancy spaces or multi-tenancy spaces to single tenancy space that can be leased at higher rates. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 575,152 rentable square feet undergoing redevelopment at ten projects. In addition to properties undergoing redevelopment, as of December 31, 2009, our asset base contained embedded opportunities for a future permanent change of use to office/laboratory space through redevelopment aggregating approximately 1.5 million rentable square feet. Development Another key component of our long term business model is ground-up development projects. Our development strategy is primarily to pursue selective projects where we expect to achieve appropriate investment returns. We generally have undertaken ground-up development projects only if our investment in infrastructure will be substantially made for generic, rather than tenant specific, improvements. As of December 31, 2009, we had six parcels of land undergoing ground-up development approximating 980,000 rentable square feet of office/laboratory space. We also have an embedded pipeline for future ground-up development approximating 11.1 million developable square feet of office/laboratory space. Future ground-up/vertical development projects will likely require significant pre-leasing from high quality and/or credit entities. Tenants As of December 31, 2009, we had 417 leases with a total of 342 tenants, and 74 of our 156 properties were single-tenant properties. Our three largest tenants accounted for approximately 17.1% of our aggregate annualized base rent, or approximately 8.0%, 4.7% and 4.4%, respectively. None of our tenants represented more than 10% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. 3 Competition In general, other life science properties are located in close proximity to our properties. The amount of rentable space available in any market could have a material effect on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can earn. In addition, we compete for investment opportunities with insurance companies, pension and investment funds, private equity entities, partnerships, developers, investment companies, other REITs, and owner/occupants. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than us or accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. Competition in acquiring existing properties and land, both from institutional capital sources and from other REITs, has been very strong over the past several years. We believe we have differentiated ourselves from our competitors, as we are the largest owner, manager and developer of life science properties, in key life science markets. Financial information about our operating segment See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information about our operating segment. Available information Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to the foregoing reports, are available, free of charge, through our corporate website at http://www.labspace.com as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The current charters of our Board of Director’s Audit, Compensation and Nominating & Governance Committees, along with the Company’s corporate governance guidelines and Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting Non-compliance (the “Business Integrity Policy”) are available on our corporate website. Additionally, any amendments to, and waivers of, our Business Integrity Policy that apply to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will be available free of charge on our corporate website in accordance with applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) requirements. Written requests should be sent to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., 385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299, Pasadena, California 91101, Attention: Investor Relations. Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The public may also download these materials from the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 142 full-time employees. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. We have adopted a Business Integrity Policy that applies to all of our employees. Its receipt and review by each employee is documented and verified annually. 4 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The global financial crisis, and other events or circumstances beyond the control of the Company, may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations, contractual commitments, and access to capital. What began initially in 2007 and 2008 as a “subprime” mortgage crisis turned into an extraordinary United States and worldwide structural economic and financial crisis coupled with the rapid decline of the consumer economy. Recently, in 2008 and 2009 significant concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a steep economic decline and fears of a deep and prolonged recession. Further, severe financial and structural strains on the banking and financial systems have led to significant lack of trust and confidence in the global credit and financial system. Consumers and money managers have and may liquidate equity investments and consumers and banks have and may hold cash and other lower risk investments, resulting in significant and, in some cases, catastrophic declines in the equity capitalization of companies and unusual failures of financial institutions. Additionally, financial systems throughout the world are undergoing severe structural changes with banks much less willing to lend substantial amounts to other banks and borrowers. This extraordinary level of illiquidity has caused a significant decline in available credit from financial institutions and other lenders and the unprecedented declines in the market values of United States and foreign stock exchanges has led to significantly higher cost of debt and equity capital. The United States and foreign governments have taken extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the consumer driven economy. These extraordinary actions, including the merger of large financial institutions and significant investment in and control by government bodies, has so far resulted in some relief to the frozen markets. Additionally, extraordinary government controls have been attempted, including a temporary ban of “short sales” on certain publicly traded stocks and guarantees of money market funds, which have also resulted in limited relief, if any, to the credit markets. The resulting and ongoing lack of available credit, lack of lending between financial institutions and other key lending sources (such as life insurance companies and pension funds), lack of lending to borrowers and further failures and consolidation of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect our tenants, key vendors and contractors, financial condition, results of operations, ability to fund our construction activities, ability to refinance debt and other capital needs and our access to capital. There can be no assurance that actions of the United States Government, Federal Reserve, and other government and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In an unprecedented response to the financial and economic crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, former President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the United States Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The federal government, the Federal Reserve Board, and other government and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions or future actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may also limit our access to capital from financial institutions on favorable terms, or at all, and our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities could be adversely affected by causes beyond the control of the Company through ongoing extraordinary disruptions in the global economy and financial systems or other events. 5 We may not be able to obtain additional capital to further our business objectives. Our ability to develop, redevelop or acquire properties depends upon our ability to obtain capital. The real estate industry has recently experienced volatile debt and equity capital markets with periods of extreme illiquidity. A prolonged period in which we cannot effectively access the public equity or debt markets may result in heavier reliance on alternative financing sources to undertake new investments. An inability to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing and completing desirable investments, and which could otherwise adversely affect our business. Also, the issuance of additional shares of capital stock or interests in subsidiaries to fund future operations could dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders. Even as liquidity returns to the market, debt and equity capital may be more expensive than in prior years. Possible future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of shares of our common stock on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of capital stock (including common stock issued upon the exercise of stock options, the conversion of convertible debt securities or the conversion or redemption of preferred stock), or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We have reserved a number of shares of common stock for issuance to our officers, directors and employees pursuant to our Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (sometimes referred to herein as our equity incentive plan). As of December 31, 2009, a total of 629,896 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance under our Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan. As of December 31, 2009, options to purchase 118,225 shares of our common stock were outstanding, all of which were exercisable. We have filed a registration statement with respect to the issuance of shares of our common stock pursuant to grants under our equity incentive plan. In addition, any shares issued under our equity incentive plan will be available for sale in the public market from time to time without restriction by persons who are not our “affiliates” (as defined in Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act). Affiliates will be able to sell shares of our common stock subject to restrictions under Rule 144. The price per share of our stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price per share of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: · the availability of debt and/or equity capital; · the condition of our balance sheet; · the condition of the financial and banking industries; · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; · the amount and timing of debt maturities and other contractual obligations; · changes in our FFO or earnings estimates; · the publication of research reports about us, the real estate industry, or the life science industry; · the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other debt or equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); · general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; · changes in our analyst ratings; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by institutional stockholders; · speculation in the press or investment community; · terrorist activity adversely affecting the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; · government regulatory action and changes in tax laws; · the realization of any of the other risk factors included in this annual report on Form 10-K; and · general market and economic conditions. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or our prospects. 6 Our debt service obligations may have adverse consequences on our business operations. We use debt to finance our operations, including the development, redevelopment and acquisitions of properties. Our use of debt may have adverse consequences, including the following: · our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; · we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt; · we may default on our debt obligations, and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure those loans; · a foreclosure on one of our properties could create taxable income without any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the tax; · a default under a mortgage loan that has cross default provisions may cause us to automatically default on another loan; · we may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt; · the terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt; · we may be subject to a significant increase in the variable interest rates on our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan and certain other borrowings, which could adversely impact our operations; and · the terms of our debt obligations may require a reduction in our distributions to stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $937.0 million (net of $2.1 million discount), secured by 57 properties and one land development parcel, and outstanding debt under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan of approximately $1.2 billion. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $368.0 million (net of $16.7 million discount) and $215.9 million (net of $24.1 million discount) of 3.70% and 8.00% unsecured convertible notes outstanding, respectively. We may not be able to refinance our debt and/or our debt may not be assumable. Due to the high volume of real estate debt financing in recent years, the industry may require more funds to refinance debt maturities than the potential funds available from lenders. This potential shortage of available funds from lenders may limit our ability to refinance our debt as it matures, our cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We have approximately $1.8 billion in unsecured corporate debt. This debt may be unassumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. We may not be able to borrow additional amounts under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan. Aggregate unsecured borrowings under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan is limited to an amount based primarily on the net operating income derived from a pool of unencumbered properties and our cost basis of certain land and construction projects and compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. Borrowings under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan are funded by a group of approximately 50 banks. Our ability to borrow additional amounts under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan may be negatively impacted by a decrease in cash flows from our properties, a default or cross default under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan, non-compliance with one or more loan covenants and non-performance or failure of one or more lenders under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan. In addition, we may not be able to refinance or repay outstanding borrowings on our unsecured line of credit or unsecured term loan. Our inability to borrow additional amounts could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing and completing desirable investments, which could adversely affect our business; and our inability to refinance or repay amounts under our unsecured line of credit or unsecured term loan may adversely affect our cash flows, ability to make distributions to our stockholders, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan restrict our ability to engage in some business activities. Our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: · restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness; · restrict our ability to make certain investments; · restrict our ability to merge with another company; · restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders; · require us to maintain financial coverage ratios; and · require us to maintain a pool of unencumbered assets approved by the lenders. These restrictions could cause us to default on our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan or negatively affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We could become highly leveraged and our debt service obligations could increase. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. Therefore, we could become highly leveraged. This would result in an increase in our debt service obligations that could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Higher leverage could also increase the risk of default on our debt obligations. If interest rates rise, our debt service costs will increase and the value of our properties may decrease. Our unsecured line of credit, unsecured term loan and certain other borrowings bear interest at variable rates, and we may incur additional debt in the future. Increases in market interest rates would increase our interest expense under these debt instruments and would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. Additionally, increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and decrease the market price of our common stock. Accordingly, these increases could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. The interest rate hedge agreements we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. These risk factors may lead to failure to hedge effectively against changes in interest rates and therefore may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through partnerships, limited liability companies and joint ventures. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of funds that we may invest in non-wholly owned partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures. Partnership, limited liability company or joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: · upon bankruptcy of non-wholly owned partnerships, limited liability companies, or joint venture entities, we may become liable for the partnership’s, limited liability company’s or joint venture’s liabilities; · we may share certain approval rights over major decisions with third parties; · we may be required to contribute such capital if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions; · our partners, co-members or joint ventures might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and that could affect our ability to operate the property or our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT; · our ability to sell the interest on advantageous terms when we desire may be limited or restricted under the terms of our agreements with our partners; and · we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above market price to continue ownership. 8 We generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships, limited liability companies and joint ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives. However, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions to our stockholders or the market price of our common stock. The conversion rights of our 3.70% unsecured convertible notes may be detrimental to holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $368.0 million, net of $16.7 million discount, outstanding on our unsecured convertible notes with a coupon of 3.70% (the “3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes”). Prior to January 15, 2012, we will not have the right to redeem the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes, except to preserve our qualification as a REIT. On and after that date, we have the right to redeem the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. Holders of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase their notes, in whole or in part, on January 15, 2012, 2017 and 2022 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. Holders of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions, including a change in control, certain merger or consolidation transactions or the liquidation of the Company (each, a “Fundamental Change”), at a repurchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. At issuance, the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes had an initial conversion rate of approximately 8.4774 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes, representing a conversion price of approximately $117.96 per share of our common stock. This initial conversion price represented a premium of 20% based on the last reported sale price of $98.30 per share of our common stock on January 10, 2007. The conversion rate of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes is subject to adjustments for certain events, including, but not limited to, certain dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.74 per share per quarter and dividends on our common stock payable in shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes had a conversion rate of approximately 8.5207 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $117.36 per share of our common stock. Holders of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes may convert their notes into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock prior to the stated maturity of January 15, 2027 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2007, if the closing sale price of our common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 120% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2) during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the “3.70% Unsecured Convertible Note Measurement Period”) in which the average trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average conversion value of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes during the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Note Measurement Period; (3) upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change; (4) if we call the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes for redemption; and (5) at any time from, and including, December 15, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding January 15, 2027 or earlier redemption or repurchase. The conversion of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes into our common stock would dilute stockholder ownership in the Company, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any adjustments that increase the conversion rate of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes would increase their dilutive effect. Further, the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes may be converted into cash at a time when we need to conserve our cash reserves, in which event, such conversion may adversely affect us and our stockholders. The conversion rights of our 8.00% unsecured convertible notes may be detrimental to holders of our common stock. In April 2009, we completed a private offering of $240 million unsecured convertible notes with a coupon of 8.00% (the “8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes”). As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $215.9 million, net of $24.1 million discount, outstanding on our 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes. Prior to April 20, 2014, we will not have the right to redeem the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes, except to preserve our qualification as a REIT. On and after that date, we have the right to redeem the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. Holders of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase their notes, in whole or in part, on April 15, 2014, 2019 and 2024 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. Holders of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, at a repurchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. At issuance, the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes had an initial 9 conversion rate of approximately 24.1546 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes, representing a conversion price of approximately $41.40 per share of our common stock. This initial conversion price represented a premium of 15% based on the last reported sale price of $36.00 per share of our common stock on April 21, 2009. The conversion rate of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes is subject to adjustments for certain events, including, but not limited to, certain cash dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.35 per share per quarter and dividends on our common stock payable in shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, there was no change from the initial conversion rate of our 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes. Holders of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes may convert their notes prior to the stated maturity date of April 15, 2029 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending June 30, 2009, if the closing sale price of our common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds or is equal to 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2) during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading day period (the “8.00% Unsecured Convertible Note Measurement Period”) in which the average trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes was equal to or less than 98% of the average conversion value of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes during the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Note Measurement Period; (3) upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change; (4) if we call the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes for redemption; and (5) at any time from, and including, March 15, 2029 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding April 15, 2029 or earlier redemption or repurchase. Upon conversion, holders of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes will receive cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, as the case may be, at our election. The conversion of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes into our common stock would dilute stockholder ownership in the Company, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any adjustments that increase the conversion rate of the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes would increase their dilutive effect. Further, the 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes may be converted into cash at a time when we need to conserve our cash reserves, in which event, such conversion may adversely affect us and our stockholders. The conversion rights of our convertible preferred stock may be detrimental to holders of common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $250 million outstanding of 7.00% series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (“Series D Convertible Preferred Stock”). The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted into shares of our common stock subject to certain conditions. At December 31, 2009, the conversion rate for the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock was 0.2480 shares of our common stock per $25.00 liquidation preference, which was equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $100.81 per share of common stock. The conversion rate for the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock is subject to adjustments for certain events, including, but not limited to certain dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.78 per share per quarter and dividends on our common stock payable in shares of our common stock. In addition, on or after April 20, 2013, we may, at our option, be able to cause some or all of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock to be automatically converted if the closing sale price per share of our common stock equals or exceeds 150% of the then-applicable conversion price of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately prior to our issuance of a press release announcing the exercise of our conversion option. Holders of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, at their option, may, at any time and from time to time, convert some or all of their outstanding shares. The conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock for our common stock would dilute stockholder ownership in our company, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any adjustments that increase the conversion rate of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock would increase their dilutive effect. Further, the conversion rights by the holders of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock might be triggered in situations where we need to conserve our cash reserves, in which event, our election, under certain conditions, to repurchase such Series D Convertible Preferred Stock in lieu of converting them into common stock might adversely affect us and our stockholders. We may not be able to sell our properties quickly to raise money. Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid compared to other investments. Accordingly, we may not be able to sell our properties when we desire or at prices acceptable to us in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”) limits our ability to sell properties held for fewer than two years. These limitations on our ability to sell our properties may adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to repay debt and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 10 If our revenues are less than our expenses, we may have to borrow additional funds and we may not be able to make distributions to our stockholders. If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including our debt service obligations and capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs and cash flow needs. This could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Factors that could adversely affect the revenues we generate from, and the values of, our properties include: · national, local and worldwide economic conditions; · competition from other life science properties; · changes in the life science industry; · real estate conditions in our target markets; · our ability to collect rent payments; · the availability of financing; · changes to the financial and banking industries; · changes in interest rate levels; · vacancies at our properties and our ability to re-lease space; · changes in tax or other regulatory laws; · the costs of compliance with government regulation; · the lack of liquidity of real estate investments; and · increases in operating costs. In addition, if a lease at a property is not a triple net lease, we will have greater expenses associated with that property and greater exposure to increases in such expenses. Significant expenditures, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and insurance and maintenance costs are generally fixed and do not decrease when revenues at the related property decrease. Our distributions to stockholders may decline at any time. We may not continue our current level of distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors will determine future distributions based on a number of factors, including: · our amount of cash available for distribution; · our financial condition; · any decision by our board of directors to reinvest funds rather than to distribute such funds; · our capital expenditures; · the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code; · restrictions under Maryland law; and · other factors our board of directors deems relevant. A reduction in distributions to stockholders may negatively impact our stock price. Distributions on our common stock may be made in the form of cash, stock, or a combination of both. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders. Typically, we generate cash for distributions through our operations, the disposition of assets, or the incurrence of additional debt. Our board of directors may determine in the future, to pay dividends on our common stock in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. The Internal Revenue Service recently issued Revenue Procedure 2010-12, which provides guidance regarding certain dividends payable in cash or stock at the election of stockholders and declared with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011. Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, a distribution of our stock pursuant to such an election will be considered a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the amount of cash that could have been received instead if, among other things, 10% or more of the distribution is payable in cash. Any such dividend would be distributed in a manner intended to count toward satisfaction of our annual distribution requirements and to qualify for the dividends paid deduction. A reduction in the cash yield on our common stock may negatively impact our stock price. 11 We may be unsuccessful with our real estate development and redevelopment activities. A key component of our long term business model consists of the ground-up development and redevelopment of space for lease. Our success with our development and redevelopment projects depends on many risks that may adversely affect our business, including those associated with: · negative worldwide economic, financial, and banking conditions; · worldwide economic recession and lack of confidence; · the seizure or illiquidity of credit markets; · national, local and worldwide economic conditions; · delays in construction; · budget overruns; · lack of availability and/or increasing costs of materials; · commodity pricing of building materials and supplies; · financing availability; · changes in the life sciences, financial and banking industries; · volatility in interest rates; · labor availability and/or strikes; · uncertainty of leasing; · timing of the commencement of rental payments; · changes in local submarket conditions; · delays or denials of entitlements or permits; and · other property development uncertainties. In addition, development and redevelopment activities, regardless of whether they are ultimately successful, typically require a substantial portion of management’s time and attention. This may distract management from focusing on other operational activities. If we are unable to complete development projects successfully, our business may be adversely affected. We have spaces available for redevelopment that may be difficult to redevelop or successfully lease to tenants. A key component of our long term business model is redevelopment of existing office, warehouse or shell space as generic office/laboratory space, including the conversion of single tenancy space to multi-tenancy spaces or multi-tenancy spaces to single tenancy space that can be leased at higher rates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete spaces undergoing redevelopment or initiate additional redevelopment projects. Redevelopment activities subject us to many risks, including delays in permitting, financing availability, engaging contractors, the availability and pricing of materials and labor and other redevelopment uncertainties. In addition, there can be no assurance that, upon completion, we will be able to successfully lease the space or lease the space at rental rates at or above the returns on our investment anticipated by our stockholders. Improvements to life science properties are significantly more costly than traditional office space. Our properties contain infrastructure improvements that are significantly more costly than other property types. Although we have historically been able to recover the additional investment in infrastructure improvements through higher rental rates, there is the risk that we will not be able to continue to do so in the future. Typical improvements include: · reinforced concrete floors; · upgraded roof loading capacity; · increased floor to ceiling heights; · heavy-duty heating, ventilation and air conditioning (“HVAC”) systems; · enhanced environmental control technology; · significantly upgraded electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure; and · laboratory benches. 12 We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located or held for future development. As of December 31, 2009, we held ground lease obligations including leases for 19 of our properties and three land development parcels. These lease obligations have remaining lease terms from 23 to 97 years, excluding extension options. If we default under the terms of any particular lease, we may lose the ownership rights to the property subject to the lease. Upon expiration of a lease and all of its options, we may not be able to renegotiate a new lease on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of the ownership rights to these properties or an increase of rental expense could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, stock price and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our stockholders. We may not be able to operate properties successfully. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to operate our properties successfully. If we are unable to do so, our business could be adversely affected. The ownership and operation of real estate is subject to many risks that may adversely affect our business and our ability to make payments to our stockholders, including the risks that: · our properties may not perform as we expect; · we may lease space at rates below our expectations; · we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms; and · we may underestimate the cost of improvements required to maintain or improve space up to standards established for the market position intended for that property. If we encounter any of these risks, our business and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We may experience increased operating costs, which may reduce profitability. Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses including cleaning, electricity, HVAC, administrative costs and other costs associated with security, landscaping and repairs and maintenance of our properties. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 88% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) were triple net leases, requiring tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes and insurance, common area and other operating expenses, including increases thereto. In addition, approximately 8% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) required the tenants to pay a majority of operating expenses. However, we cannot be certain that our tenants will be able to bear the full burden of these higher costs, or that such increased costs will not lead them, or other prospective tenants, to seek space elsewhere. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other comparable space in the markets we operate in may hinder or limit our ability to increase our rents; if operating expenses increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We face substantial competition in our target markets. The significant competition for business in our target markets could have an adverse effect on our operations. We compete for investment opportunities with: · insurance companies; · pension and investment funds; · private equity entities; · partnerships; · developers; · investment companies; · other REITs; and · owners/occupants. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than we can or accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. 13 Poor economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect our business. Our properties are located in the following markets: · California – San Diego; · California – San Francisco Bay; · Eastern Massachusetts; · New Jersey/Suburban Philadelphia; · New York City; · Southeast; · Suburban Washington, D.C.; · Washington – Seattle; and · International. As a result of our geographic concentration, we depend upon the local economic conditions in these markets, including local real estate conditions. We are, therefore, subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to economic, tax, currency fluctuations, and other competitive factors specific to markets in confined geographic areas. Our operations may also be affected if too many competing properties are built in any of these markets. An economic downturn in any of these markets could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We cannot assure our stockholders that these markets will continue to grow or will remain favorable to the life science industry. We are largely dependent on the life science industry for revenues from lease payments. In general, our business and strategy is to invest primarily in properties used by tenants in the life science industry. Our business could be adversely affected if the life science industry is impacted by the current economic, financial and banking crisis or if the life science industry migrates from the United States to other countries. Because of our industry focus, events within the life science industry may have a more pronounced effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders than if we had more diversified investments. Also, some of our properties may be better suited for a particular life science industry tenant and could require modification before we are able to re-lease vacant space to another life science industry tenant. Generally, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants without significant expenditures on renovations. Our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. Our tenants may not be able to pay us if they are unsuccessful in discovering, developing, making or selling their products and technologies. Our life science industry tenants are subject to a number of risks, including the following, any one or more of which may adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us: · Some of our tenants developing potential drugs may find that their drugs are not effective, or may even be harmful, when tested in humans. · Some of our tenants depend on availability of reimbursements from various government entities or private insurance plans and reimbursements may decrease in the future. · Some of our tenants may not be able to manufacture their drugs economically, even if such drugs are proven through human clinical trials to be safe and effective in humans. · Drugs that are developed and manufactured by some of our tenants require regulatory approval, including the approval of the United States Food and Drug Administration, prior to being made, marketed, sold and used. The regulatory approval process to manufacture and market drugs is costly, typically takes several years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources and is often unpredictable. A tenant may fail or experience significant delays in obtaining these approvals. · Some of our tenants and their licensors require patent, copyright or trade secret protection to develop, make, market and sell their products and technologies. A tenant may be unable to commercialize its products or technologies if patents covering such products or technologies do not issue, or are successfully challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented by third parties, or if the tenant fails to obtain licenses to the discoveries of third parties necessary to commercialize its products or technologies. 14 · A drug made by a tenant may not be well accepted by doctors and patients, may be less effective or accepted than a competitor’s drugs, or may be subsequently recalled from the market, even if it is successfully developed, proven safe and effective in human clinical trials, manufactured and the requisite regulatory approvals are obtained. · Some of our tenants require significant funding to develop and commercialize their products and technologies, which funding must be obtained from venture capital firms, private investors, the public markets, companies in the life science industry or federal, state and local governments. Such funding may become unavailable or difficult to obtain. The ability of each tenant to raise capital will depend on their financial and operating condition and the overall condition of the financial, banking and economic environment. · Even with sufficient funding, some of our tenants may not be able to discover or identify potential drug targets in humans, or potential drugs for use in humans, or to create tools or technologies which are commercially useful in the discovery or identification of potential drug targets or drugs. We cannot assure our stockholders that our tenants will be able to develop, make, market or sell their products and technologies due to the risks inherent in the life science industry. Any tenant that is unable to avoid, or sufficiently mitigate, the risks described above, may have difficulty making rental payments to us. Our inability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire may significantly affect our business. Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If a tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other types of financial distress, it may be unable to make timely payments under its lease. Also, when our tenants decide not to renew their leases or terminate early, we may not be able to re-lease the space. Even if tenants decide to renew or lease space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of any tenant improvements, concessions and lease commissions, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Consequently, we could generate less cash flow from the affected properties than expected, which could negatively impact our business. We may have to divert cash flow generated by other properties to meet our debt service payments, if any, or to pay other expenses related to owning the affected properties. As of December 31, 2009, leases at our properties representing approximately 8.7% and 15.1% of the aggregate total square footage of our properties, excluding month-to-month leases, were scheduled to expire in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The inability of a tenant to pay us rent could adversely affect our business. Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If our tenants, especially significant tenants, fail to make rental payments under their leases, our financial condition, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, we had 417 leases with a total of 342 tenants, and 74 of our 156 properties were single-tenant properties. Our three largest tenants accounted for approximately 17.1% of our aggregate annualized base rent, or approximately 8.0%, 4.7% and 4.4%, respectively. “Annualized base rent” means the annualized fixed base rental amount in effect as of December 31, 2009, using rental revenues calculated on a straight-line basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Annualized base rent does not include reimbursements for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area and other operating expenses, substantially all of which are borne by the tenants in the case of triple net leases. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may also adversely affect the income produced by a property. If any of our tenants becomes a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, we cannot evict that tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court may authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against such a tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory limitation that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed to us under the tenant’s lease. Any shortfall in rent payments could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 15 Our United States government tenants may not receive annual budget appropriations, which could adversely affect their ability to pay us. United States government tenants may be subject to annual budget appropriations. If one of our United States government tenants fails to receive its annual budget appropriation, it might not be able to make its lease payments to us. In addition, defaults under leases with federal government tenants are governed by federal statute and not by state eviction or rent deficiency laws. All of our leases with United States government tenants provide that the government tenant may terminate the lease under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2009, leases with United States government tenants at our properties accounted for approximately 2.7% of our aggregate annualized base rent. We could be held liable for damages resulting from our tenants’ use of hazardous materials. Many of our life science industry tenants engage in research and development activities that involve controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and biological and radioactive compounds. In the event of contamination or injury from the use of these hazardous materials, we could be held liable for damages that result. This liability could exceed our resources and any recovery available through any applicable environmental remediation insurance coverage, and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Together with our tenants, we must comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. Failure to comply with, or changes in, these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business or our tenants’ businesses and their ability to make rental payments to us. Our properties may have defects that are unknown to us. Although we review the physical condition of our properties before they are acquired, and on a periodic basis after acquisition, any of our properties may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to us that could adversely affect the property’s value or revenue potential. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans With Disabilities Act and similar laws. Under the Americans With Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation and/or commercial facilities are required to meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with this law. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. A number of additional federal, state and local laws and regulations exist regarding access by disabled persons. These regulations may require modifications to our properties or may affect future renovations. This may limit the overall returns on our investments. We may incur significant costs if we fail to comply with laws or if laws change. Our properties are subject to many federal, state and local regulatory requirements and to state and local fire, life-safety and other requirements. If we do not comply with all of these requirements, we may have to pay fines to government authorities or damage awards to private litigants. We do not know whether these requirements will change or whether new requirements will be imposed. Changes in these regulatory requirements could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. These expenditures could have an adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We could incur significant costs complying with environmental laws. Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may require us, as a current or prior owner or operator of real estate, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products released at or from any of our properties. The cost of investigating and cleaning up contamination could be substantial and could exceed the amount of any environmental remediation insurance coverage available to us. In addition, the presence of contamination, or the failure to properly clean it up, may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell an affected property, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Under environmental laws and regulations, we may have to pay government entities or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties relating to contaminated properties regardless of whether we knew of or caused the contamination. Even if more than one party may have been responsible for the 16 contamination, we may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs. In addition, third parties may sue us for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination or jointly responsible parties may contest their responsibility or be financially unable to pay their share of such costs. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing materials. These laws may impose fines and penalties on us for the release of asbestos-containing materials and may allow third parties to seek recovery from us for personal injury from exposure to asbestos fibers. We have detected asbestos-containing materials at some of our properties, but we do not expect that they will result in material environmental costs or liabilities to us. Environmental laws and regulations also require the removal or upgrading of certain underground storage tanks and regulate: · the discharge of storm water, wastewater and any water pollutants; · the emission of air pollutants; · the generation, management and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals, substances or wastes; and · workplace health and safety. Many of our tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities. Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental assessments at all of our properties. We intend to use consultants to conduct similar environmental assessments on our future acquisitions. This type of assessment generally includes a site inspection, interviews and a public records review, but no subsurface sampling. These assessments and certain additional investigations of our properties have not to date revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The additional investigations have included, as appropriate: · asbestos surveys; · radon surveys; · lead surveys; · mold surveys; · additional public records review; · subsurface sampling; and · other testing. Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our properties have not revealed, nor that assessments on future acquisitions will reveal, all environmental liabilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware that may result in substantial costs to us or our tenants and that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs to remedy the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold may grow, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. 17 We could incur significant costs due to the financial condition of our insurance carriers. We insure our properties with insurance companies that we believe have a good rating at the time our policies are put into effect. The financial condition of one or more of our insurance companies that we hold policies with may be negatively impacted resulting in their inability to pay on future insurance claims. Their inability to pay future claims may have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, the failure of one or more insurance companies may increase the costs to renew our insurance policies or increase the cost of insuring additional properties and recently developed or redeveloped properties. Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses. If we experience a loss at any of our properties that is not covered by insurance or that exceeds our insurance policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the affected property and, possibly, future revenues from that property. In addition, we could continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the affected properties. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. We have obtained earthquake insurance for our properties because many of them are located in the vicinity of active earthquake faults. We also carry environmental remediation insurance and have title insurance policies on all of our properties. We obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire the property, with each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property. Our tenants are also required to maintain comprehensive insurance, including liability and casualty insurance, that is customarily obtained for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that we and our tenants do not generally insure against because they are uninsurable or because it is not economical to insure against them. The availability of coverage against certain types of losses, such as from terrorism or toxic mold, has become more limited and, when available, is at a significantly higher premium cost. We cannot predict whether insurance coverage against terrorism or toxic mold will remain available for our properties because insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against such losses or, if offered, such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. Many, but not all, of our properties are low-rise buildings. Toxic mold has not presented any material problems at any of our properties. Terrorist attacks may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. Terrorist attacks such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. To the extent that future terrorist attacks impact our tenants, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their lease obligations. The loss of services of any of our senior executive officers could adversely affect us. We depend upon the services of relatively few executive officers. The loss of services of any one of them may adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. We use the extensive personal and business relationships that members of our management have developed over time with owners of life science properties and with major life science industry tenants. We cannot assure our stockholders that our senior executive officers will remain employed with us. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed at corporate rates and would not be able to take certain deductions when computing our taxable income. If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify as a REIT: · we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing taxable income; · unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification; and · we would no longer be required by the Internal Revenue Code to make any distributions to our stockholders. As a result of any additional tax liability, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Accordingly, funds available for investment or distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. 18 Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and financial results, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we believe that we have operated in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure our stockholders that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, although we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to operate as a REIT, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders. We may change our business policies without stockholder approval. Our board of directors determines all of our material business policies, with management’s input, including those related to our: · status as a REIT; · incurrence of debt and debt management activities; · selective development, redevelopment and acquisition activities; · stockholder distributions; and · other policies, as appropriate. Our board of directors may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these policies could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatement because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed, and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional significant costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. There are limits on the ownership of our capital stock under which a stockholder may lose beneficial ownership of its shares and which may delay or prevent transactions that might otherwise be desired by our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals or entities (as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code) during the last half of a taxable year. Furthermore, shares of our outstanding stock must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, among other reasons, our charter provides for an ownership limit, which prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership of shares of stock representing more than 9.8% of the combined total value of our outstanding shares of stock by any person, as defined in our charter. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may or may not waive the ownership limit for any person. However, our board of directors may not grant such waiver if, after giving effect to such waiver, five individuals could beneficially own, in the aggregate, more than 49.9% 19 of the value of our outstanding stock. As a condition to waiving the ownership limit, our board of directors may require a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of counsel in order to determine our status as a REIT. Notwithstanding the receipt of any such ruling or opinion, our board of directors may impose such conditions or restrictions as it deems appropriate in connection with granting a waiver. Our charter further prohibits transferring shares of our stock if such transfer would result in us being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code or would result in shares of our stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of our common stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. A transfer of shares to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates these limits, shall be void or shall be exchanged for shares of excess stock and transferred to a trust, for the benefit of one or more qualified charitable organizations designated by us. In that case, the intended transferee will have only a right to share, to the extent of the transferee’s original purchase price for such shares, in proceeds from the trust’s sale of those shares and will effectively forfeit its beneficial ownership of the shares. These ownership limits could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the holders of our common stock or might otherwise be desired by such holders. In addition to the ownership limit, certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that may be deemed to be desirable to our stockholders. As authorized by Maryland law, our charter allows our board of directors to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify unissued shares of common or preferred stock without any stockholder approval. Our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or for other reasons be desired by our common stockholders or that have a dividend preference which may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our charter permits the removal of a director only upon a two-thirds vote of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors, and our bylaws require advance notice of a stockholder’s intention to nominate directors or to present business for consideration by stockholders at an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that involves a premium price for our common stock or that for other reasons may be desired by our stockholders. External factors may adversely impact the valuation of investments. We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies and privately held entities primarily involved in the life science industry. The valuation of these investments is affected by many external factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, market prices, market conditions, prospects for favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product initiatives and new collaborative agreements. Unfavorable developments with respect to any of these factors may have an adverse impact on the valuation of our investments. We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments. We have significant cash balances that we invest in a variety of short-term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. From time to time, these investments may include (either directly or indirectly) obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks, money market funds, Treasury bank securities and other highly rated short-term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances we may be required to redeem all or part of these securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. A decline in the value of our investments or delay or suspension of our right to redeem may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay our obligations as they become due. 20 We have certain ownership interests outside the United States that may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations. We have four operating properties and one development parcel in Canada and two development parcels in China. International development, ownership and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include but are not limited to: · adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies; · any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT; · challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings; · changes in foreign political, regulatory and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally; · challenges in managing international operations; · challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings; · differences in lending practices; · differences in languages, cultures and time zones; and · changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations. Although our international activities currently represent a relatively small portion of our overall business, these risks could increase in significance which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and foreign currencies. We have four operating properties and one development parcel in Canada and two development parcels in China. Investments in countries where the United States dollar is not the local currency are subject to international currency risk from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and the local currency. A significant decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar, Chinese Renminbi, or other foreign currencies where we may have a significant investment could materially affect our results of operations. We may attempt to mitigate such effects by borrowing in the local foreign currency in which we invest. Any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 