ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The supermarket business is highly competitive and characterized by narrow profit margins. Results of operations may be materially adversely impacted by competitive pricing and promotional programs, industry consolidation and competitor store openings. Village competes with national and regional supermarkets, local supermarkets, warehouse club stores, supercenters, drug stores, convenience stores, dollar stores, discount merchandisers, restaurants and other local retailers. Competition with these outlets is based on price, store location, promotion, product assortment, quality and service. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do. In addition, Village made investments in lower prices in fiscal 2013 to combat nontraditional competitors. GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION AND NEW TRADE AREA The Company’s stores are concentrated in New Jersey, with one store in northeastern Pennsylvania and two in Maryland. We are vulnerable to economic downturns in New Jersey in addition to those that may affect the country as a whole. Economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates, energy costs and unemployment rates may adversely affect our sales and profits. Further, since our store base is concentrated in densely populated metropolitan areas, opportunities for future store expansion may be limited, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Village acquired two stores in July 2011 in Maryland, a new market for Village where the ShopRite name is less known than in New Jersey. Marketing and other costs are higher in Maryland than in established markets as Village attempts to build market share and brand awareness. In addition, sales for these two stores are initially expected to be lower than the typical Company store. Potentially higher costs and sales results lower than the Company’s expectations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. WAKEFERN RELATIONSHIP Village purchases substantially all of its merchandise from Wakefern. In addition, Wakefern provides the Company with support services in numerous areas including supplies, advertising, liability and property insurance, technology support and other store services. Further, Village receives patronage dividends and other product incentives from Wakefern. Any material change in Wakefern’s method of operation or a termination or material modification of Village’s relationship with Wakefern could have an adverse impact on the conduct of the Company’s business and could involve additional expense for Village. The failure of any Wakefern member to fulfill its obligations to Wakefern or a member’s insolvency or withdrawal from Wakefern could result in increased costs to the Company. Additionally, an adverse change in Wakefern’s results of operations could have an adverse affect on Village’s results of operations. 5 LABOR RELATIONS Approximately 91% of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. Contracts with the Company’s seven unions expire between October 2013 and July 2016. Approximately 49% of our associates are represented by unions whose contracts have already expired or expire within one year. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care and pension costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. This could significantly disrupt our operations or have an adverse impact on our financial results. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreement, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on our results of operations. HEALTHCARE LEGISLATION We provide health benefits to a large number of our employees, primarily through multi-employer health plans. Effective January 1, 2015, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will impose new mandates on employers that could significantly increase the number of employees receiving benefits and our required contributions to these multi-employer health plans. We are not able at this time to determine the impact of the law, as it will depend on many factors, including finalization of rules implementing the law, the number of additional employees that we will be required to provide health benefits, and negotiation of collective bargaining agreements, which could be material to our results of operations. FOOD SAFETY The Company could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the food supply chain. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, could discourage consumers from buying our products. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in a loss of consumer confidence and product liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. REPLACEMENT STORES The Company is constructing two replacement stores. At the time the replacement stores are expected to open, we will have rental obligations for several years remaining on the existing stores. If we are unable to sublease the existing stores on terms similar to the current rent or otherwise mitigate the rental obligations, we may incur charges for these obligations at the time the existing stores are closed. MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION PLANS The Company is required to make contributions to multi-employer pension plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are funded. Benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. Based on the most recent information available to us, certain of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related items will be issues in the negotiation of our collective bargaining agreements. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur a withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under complex actuarial and allocation rules. The failure of a withdrawing employer to fund these obligations can impact remaining employers. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations and the actual return on assets held in the plans, among other factors. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information relating to our participation in multi-employer pension plans. CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS During the last few years, the supermarket industry was impacted by changing consumer behavior due to the weak economy, high gas prices and high unemployment. Consumers continue to spend cautiously by trading down to lower priced items, including private label, and concentrating their buying on sale items. Our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected if the above trends continue. Also, the Company estimates that product prices overall experienced substantial inflation in the first half of fiscal 2012, with only modest inflation in the second half of fiscal 2012 and during fiscal 2013. 6 IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS Our long-lived assets, primarily stores, are subject to periodic testing for impairment. Failure of our asset groups to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow could result in impairment charges on long-lived assets. TAXES The Company’s effective tax rate may be impacted by the results of tax examinations and changes in tax laws, including the disputes with the state of New Jersey described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Wakefern provides all members of the cooperative with information technology support that enables us to effectively manage our business data, customer transactions, ordering, communications and other business processes. The failure of our information technology to perform as we anticipate or a breach of these systems could disrupt our business or result in the compromise of confidential customer data. Any such event could damage our reputation, expose us to potential litigation from outside parties and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 