Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. If there are changes in the rates or methods of government reimbursements for our services, our net operating revenues and profitability could decline. Approximately 47% of our net operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010 came from the highly regulated federal Medicare program. In recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the Medicare program. President Obama has signed into law comprehensive reforms to the healthcare system, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, Medicare reimbursement. Additional reforms or other changes to these payment systems, including modifications to the conditions on qualification for payment, bundling payments to cover both acute and post-acute care or the imposition of enrollment limitations on new providers, may be proposed or could be adopted, either by the U.S. Congress or by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or “CMS.” If revised regulations are adopted, the availability, methods and rates of Medicare reimbursements for services of the type furnished at our facilities could change. Some of these changes and proposed changes could adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. In addition, there can be no assurance that any increases in Medicare reimbursement rates established by CMS will fully reflect increases in our operating costs. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations, new interpretations of existing regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our net operating revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • facility and professional licensure, including certificates of need; • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among healthcare providers, Medicare fraud and abuse and physician self-referral; • addition of facilities and services and enrollment of newly developed facilities in the Medicare program; • payment for services; and • safeguarding protected health information. Both federal and state regulatory agencies inspect, survey and audit our facilities to review our compliance with these laws and regulations. While our facilities intend to comply with existing licensing, Medicare certification requirements and accreditation standards, there can be no assurance that these regulatory authorities will determine that all applicable requirements are fully met at any given time. In recent years, some regulatory agencies inspecting our facilities have applied these requirements and standards more strictly. A determination by any of these regulatory authorities that a facility is not in compliance with these requirements could lead to the imposition of requirements that the facility takes corrective action, assessment of fines and penalties, or loss of licensure, Medicare certification or accreditation. These consequences could have an adverse effect on our company. In addition, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. The ongoing investigations relate to, among other things, various referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, physician ownership and joint ventures involving hospitals. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject us to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services and capital expenditure programs. These changes may increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating revenues. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to any related investigation or other enforcement action. 28 During July 2009, we received a subpoena from the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services seeking various documents concerning our financial relationships with certain physicians practicing at our hospitals in Columbus, Ohio. We understand that the subpoena was issued in connection with a qui tam lawsuit and that the government has been investigating the matter to determine whether to intervene. We have produced documents in response to the subpoena and have fully cooperated with the government’s investigation. We are in discussions with the government to attempt to resolve this matter in a manner satisfactory to us and the government. Any settlement is not expected to be material to our financial position. Expiration of the moratorium imposed on certain federal regulations otherwise applicable to long term acute care hospitals operated as “hospitals within hospitals” or as “satellites” will have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. Effective for hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004, long term acute care hospitals that are operated as “hospitals within hospitals” (HIHs) or as HIH “satellites,” are subject to a payment reduction for those Medicare patients admitted from their host hospitals that are in excess of a specified percentage threshold. These HIHs and their HIH satellites are separate hospitals located in space leased from, or located on the same campus of, another hospital, which we refer to as “host” hospitals. For HIHs opened after October 1, 2004, the Medicare admissions threshold has been established at 25% except for HIHs located in rural areas or co-located with an MSA dominant hospital or single urban hospital (as defined by the current regulations) in which cases the percentage is no more than 50%, nor less than 25%. Certain grandfathered HIHs were initially excluded from the Medicare admission threshold in the rate year 2005 final regulations. Grandfathered HIHs refer to certain HIHs that were in existence on or before September 30, 1995, and grandfathered satellite facilities refer to satellites of grandfathered HIHs that were in existence on or before September 30, 1999. The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, or the “SCHIP Extension Act,” (as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the “ARRA” and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the “PPACA”) has limited the application of the Medicare admission threshold on HIHs in existence on October 1, 2004. For these HIHs, the admission threshold is no lower than 50% for a five year period to commence on a long term acute care hospital’s, or “LTCH’s,” first cost reporting period to begin on or after October 1, 2007. Under the SCHIP Extension Act, for HIHs located in rural areas the percentage threshold is no more than 75% for the same five year period. For HIHs that are co-located with MSA dominant hospitals or single urban hospitals, the percentage threshold is no more than 75% during the same five year period or the percentage of total Medicare discharges in the MSA in which the hospital is located that are from the co-located hospital. As of December 31, 2010, we owned 81 LTCH HIHs; six of these HIHs were subject to a maximum 25% Medicare admission threshold, one HIH is co-located with an MSA dominant hospital and is subject to a Medicare admission threshold of no more than 50%, nor less than 25%, 23 of these HIHs were co-located with a MSA dominate hospital or single urban hospital and were subject to a Medicare admission threshold of no more than 75%, 47 of these HIHs were subject to a maximum 50% Medicare admissions threshold, two of these HIHs were located in a rural area and were subject to a maximum 75% Medicare admission threshold, and two of these HIHs were grandfathered HIHs and not subject to a Medicare admission threshold. Because these rules are complex and are based on the volume of Medicare admissions from our host hospitals as a percent of our overall Medicare admissions, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact on our future net operating revenues of compliance with these regulations. However, after the expiration of the five year moratorium provided by the SCHIP Extension Act, as amended by the PPACA, we expect many of our HIHs will experience an adverse financial impact beginning for their cost reporting periods on or after October 1, 2012, when the Medicare admissions thresholds decline to 25%. 29 Expiration of the moratorium imposed on certain federal regulations otherwise applicable to long term acute care hospitals operated as free-standing or grandfathered “hospitals within hospitals” or grandfathered “satellites” will have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. For cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007, CMS expanded the current Medicare HIH admissions threshold to apply to Medicare patients admitted from any individual hospital. Previously, the admissions threshold was applicable only to Medicare HIH admissions from hospitals co-located with an LTCH or satellite of an LTCH. Under the rate year 2008 final rule, free-standing LTCHs and grandfathered LTCH HIHs are subject to the Medicare admission thresholds, as well as HIHs that admit Medicare patients from non-co-located hospitals. To the extent that any LTCH’s or LTCH satellite facility’s discharges that are admitted from an individual hospital (regardless of whether the referring hospital is co-located with the LTCH or LTCH satellite) exceed the applicable percentage threshold during a particular cost reporting period, the payment rate for those discharges is subject to a downward payment adjustment. Cases admitted in excess of the applicable threshold are reimbursed at a rate comparable to that under general acute care inpatient prospective payment system, or “IPPS.” IPPS rates are generally lower than LTCH-PPS rates. Cases that reach outlier status in the discharging hospital do not count toward the limit and are paid under LTCH-PPS. The SCHIP Extension Act, as amended, postponed the application of the percentage threshold to free-standing LTCHs and grandfathered HIHs for a five year period commencing on an LTCH’s first cost reporting period on or after July 1, 2007. However, the SCHIP Extension Act did not postpone the application of the percentage threshold, or the transition period stated above, to Medicare patients discharged from an LTCH HIH or HIH satellite that were admitted from a non-co-located hospital. In addition, the SCHIP Extension Act, as interpreted by CMS, did not provide relief from the application of the threshold for patients admitted from a co-located hospital to certain non-grandfathered HIHs. The ARRA limits application of the admission threshold to no more than 50% of Medicare admission to grandfathered satellites from a co-located hospital for a five year period commencing on the first cost reporting period beginning on or after July 1, 2007. Of the 110 long term acute care hospitals we owned as of December 31, 2010, 29 were operated as free-standing hospitals and two qualified as grandfathered LTCH HIHs. Because these rules are complex and are based on the volume of Medicare admissions from other referring hospitals as a percent of our overall Medicare admissions, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact on our future net operating revenues of compliance with these regulations. However, if the rate year 2008 final rule is applied as currently written, there will be an adverse financial impact to the net operating revenues and profitability of many of these hospitals for cost reporting periods on or after July 1, 2012 when the Medicare admissions thresholds go into effect for free-standing hospitals. The moratorium on the Medicare certification of new long term care hospitals and beds in existing long term care hospitals will limit our ability to increase long term acute care hospital bed capacity and expand into new areas. The SCHIP Extension Act, as amended by the PPACA, imposed a five year moratorium beginning on December 29, 2007 on the establishment and classification of new LTCHs, LTCH satellite facilities and LTCH beds in existing LTCH or satellite facilities. The moratorium does not apply to LTCHs that, before December 29, 2007, (1) began the qualifying period for payment under the LTCH-PPS, (2) had a written agreement with an unrelated party for the construction, renovation, lease or demolition for a LTCH and had expended at least 10% of the estimated cost of the project or $2,500,000 or (3) had obtained an approved certificate of need. The moratorium also does not apply to an increase in beds in an existing hospital or satellite facility if the LTCH is located in a state where there is only one other LTCH and the LTCH requests an increase in beds following the closure or the decrease in the number of beds of the other LTCH. Since we may still acquire LTCHs that were in existence prior to December 29, 2007, we do not expect this moratorium to materially impact our strategy to expand by acquiring additional LTCHs if such LTCHs can be acquired at attractive valuations. This moratorium, however, may still otherwise adversely affect our ability to increase long term acute care bed capacity in existing areas we serve or expand into new areas. 30 Expiration of the moratorium imposed on the payment adjustment for very short-stay cases in our long term acute care hospitals will reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. The rate year 2008 final rule changed the payment methodology for Medicare patients with a length of stay that is less than the average length of stay plus one standard deviation for the same Medicare severity diagnosis-related group, or “MS-DRG,” under IPPS, referred to as the so-called “IPPS comparable threshold.” Beginning with discharges on or after July 1, 2007, for these very short-stay cases, the rule lowered the LTCH payment to a rate based on the general acute care hospital IPPS per diem. SSO cases with covered lengths of stay that exceed the IPPS comparable threshold would continue to be paid under the existing short-stay payment policy. The SCHIP Extension Act prevented CMS from applying this change to short-stay outlier policy for a period of three years. The PPACA extends this prohibition by two years. CMS may not apply the very short-stay outlier policy before December 29, 2012. The implementation of the payment methodology for very short-stay outliers discharged after December 29, 2012 will reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. If our long term acute care hospitals fail to maintain their certifications as long term acute care hospitals or if our facilities operated as HIHs fail to qualify as hospitals separate from their host hospitals, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. We operate 111 long term acute care hospitals, all of which are currently certified by Medicare as long term acute care hospitals. Long term acute care hospitals must meet certain conditions of participation to enroll in, and seek payment from, the Medicare program as a long term acute care hospital, including, among other things, maintaining an average length of stay for Medicare patients in excess of 25 days. Similarly, our HIHs must meet conditions of participation in the Medicare program, which include additional criteria establishing separateness from the hospital with which the HIH shares space. If our long term acute care hospitals or HIHs fail to meet or maintain the standards for certification as long term acute care hospitals, they will receive payment under the general acute care hospitals IPPS which is generally lower than payment under the system applicable to long term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would result in our long term acute care hospitals receiving significantly less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services. Implementation of additional patient or facility criteria for LTCHs that limit the population of patients eligible for our hospitals’ services or change the basis on which we are paid could adversely affect our net operating revenue and profitability. CMS and industry stakeholders have, for a number of years, explored the development of facility and patient certification criteria for LTCHs, potentially as an alternative to the current specific payment adjustment features of LTCH-PPS. In its June 2004 report to Congress, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission recommended the adoption by CMS of new facility staffing and services criteria and patient clinical characteristics and treatment requirements for LTCHs in order to ensure that only appropriate patients are admitted to these facilities. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission is an independent federal body that advises Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program. After the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission’s recommendation, CMS awarded a contract to Research Triangle Institute International to examine such recommendation. However, while acknowledging that Research Triangle Institute International’s findings are expected to have a substantial impact on future Medicare policy for LTCHs, CMS stated in the rate year 2007 final rule that many of the specific payment adjustment features of LTCH-PPS then in place may still be necessary and appropriate even with the development of patient- and facility-level criteria for LTCHs. In the preamble to the rate year 2009 LTCH-PPS proposed rule, CMS indicated that Research Triangle Institute International continues to work with the clinical community to make recommendations to CMS regarding payment and treatment of critically ill patients in LTCHs. The SCHIP Extension Act requires the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to conduct a study and submit a report to Congress on the establishment of national LTCH facility and patient criteria and to consider the recommendations contained in the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission’s June 2004 report to Congress. Implementation of additional criteria that may limit the population of patients eligible for our long term acute care hospitals’ services or change the basis on which we are paid could adversely affect our net operating revenues and 31 profitability. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Long Term Acute Care Hospital Medicare Reimbursement.” Decreases in Medicare reimbursement rates received by our outpatient rehabilitation clinics, implementation of annual caps, and payment reductions applied to the second and subsequent therapy services may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics receive payments from the Medicare program under a fee schedule. The Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rates are automatically updated annually based on a formula, called the sustainable growth rate (“SGR”) formula, contained in legislation. The Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 (“MMEA”) prevented a 25.5% reduction in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment rates as a result of the SGR formula that would have taken effect on January 1, 2011. The MMEA extends the current Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment rates through December 31, 2011. If no further legislation is passed by Congress and signed by the President, the SGR formula will likely reduce our Medicare outpatient rehabilitation payment rates beginning January 1, 2012. Congress has established annual caps that limit the amount that can be paid (including deductible and coinsurance amounts) for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary. As directed by Congress in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, CMS implemented an exception process for therapy expenses incurred in 2006. Under this process, a Medicare enrollee (or person acting on behalf of the Medicare enrollee) was able to request an exception from the therapy caps if the provision of therapy services was deemed to be medically necessary. Therapy cap exceptions were available automatically for certain conditions and on a case-by-case basis upon submission of documentation of medical necessity. The exception process has been extended by Congress several times. Most recently, the MMEA extended the exception process through December 31, 2011. The exception process will expire on January 1, 2012 unless further extended by Congress. There can be no assurance that Congress will extend it further. To date, the implementation of the therapy caps has not had a material adverse effect on our business. However, if the exception process is not renewed, our future net operating revenues and profitability may decline. CMS adopted a multiple procedure payment reduction for therapy services in the final update to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule for calendar year 2011. Under the policy, as revised by the Physician Payment and Therapy Relief Act of 2010, the Medicare program will pay 100% of the practice expense component of the therapy procedure or unit of service with the highest Relative Value Unit (“RVU”), and then reduce payment for the practice expense component by 20% in office and other non-institutional settings and 25% in institutional settings for the second and subsequent therapy procedures or units of service furnished by a single provider during the same day for the same patient, regardless of whether those therapy services are furnished in separate sessions. This policy is effective January 1, 2011 and will apply to all outpatient therapy services paid under Medicare Part B. Furthermore, the multiple procedure payment reduction policy applies across all therapy disciplines-occupational therapy, physical therapy, and speech-language pathology. Our outpatient rehabilitation therapy services are offered in both office and other non-institutional settings and institutional settings and, as such, are subject to the applicable 20% or 25% payment reduction in the practice expense component for the second and subsequent therapy services furnished by us to the same patient on the same day. For both the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, we received approximately 10% of our outpatient rehabilitation net operating revenues from Medicare. See “Business — Government Regulations.” Our facilities are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations relating to the privacy of individually identifiable information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 required the United States Department of Health and Human Services to adopt standards to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health-related information. The department released final regulations containing privacy standards in December 2000 and published revisions to the final regulations in August 2002. The privacy regulations extensively regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health-related information. The regulations also provide patients with significant new rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used or disclosed. The security regulations require healthcare providers to implement administrative, physical and technical practices 32 to protect the security of individually identifiable health information that is maintained or transmitted electronically. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or “HITECH,” which was signed into law in February of 2009, enhanced the privacy, security and enforcement provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) by, among other things establishing security breach notification requirements, allowing enforcement of HIPAA by state attorneys general, and increasing penalties for HIPAA violations. Violations of HIPAA or HITECH could result in civil or criminal penalties. In addition to HIPAA, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. State statutes and regulations vary from state to state. Lawsuits, including class actions and action by state attorneys general, directed at companies that have experienced a privacy or security breach also can occur. We have developed a comprehensive set of policies and procedures in our efforts to comply with HIPAA and other privacy laws. Our compliance officer, privacy officer and information security officer are responsible for implementing and monitoring compliance with our privacy and security policies and procedures at our facilities. We believe that the cost of our compliance with HIPAA and other federal and state privacy laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, there can be no assurance that a breach of privacy or security will not occur. If there is a breach, we may be subject to various penalties and damages and may be required to incur costs to mitigate the impact of the breach on affected individuals. As a result of increased post-payment reviews of claims we submit to Medicare for our services, we may incur additional costs and may be required to repay amounts already paid to us. We are subject to regular post-payment inquiries, investigations and audits of the claims we submit to Medicare for payment for our services. These post-payment reviews are increasing as a result of new government cost-containment initiatives, including enhanced medical necessity reviews for Medicare patients admitted to LTCHs, and audits of Medicare claims under the Recovery Audit Contractor program. These additional post-payment reviews may require us to incur additional costs to respond to requests for records and to pursue the reversal of payment denials, and ultimately may require us to refund amounts paid to us by Medicare that are determined to have been overpaid. We may be adversely affected by negative publicity which can result in increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny and possibly adverse regulatory changes. Negative press coverage can result in increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny and possibly adverse regulatory changes. On February 10, 2010, the New York Times published an article focusing on our Company and the long term acute care hospital industry entitled “Long-Term Care Hospitals Face Little Scrutiny.” On March 8, 2010, we received a letter from the United States Senate Finance Committee in response to the New York Times article asking us to respond to a variety of questions regarding our long-term care hospitals. On March 23, 2010, we responded to the letter. On May 25, 2010, we received follow-up questions from the Committee, which we responded to on June 4, 2010. Adverse publicity such as articles in the New York Times and increased governmental scrutiny can have a negative impact on our reputation with referral sources and patients and on the morale and performance of our employees, both of which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. Future acquisitions or joint ventures may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures of specialty hospitals, outpatient rehabilitation clinics and other related healthcare facilities and services. These acquisitions or joint ventures may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, such as Regency Hospital, L.L.C., into ours, and therefore we may not be able to realize the intended benefits from an acquisition. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely effected. 33 Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, technologies and personnel into our business. Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives. We may fail to retain employees or patients acquired through acquisitions, which may negatively impact the integration efforts. Acquisitions could also have a negative impact on our results of operations if it is subsequently determined that goodwill or other acquired intangible assets are impaired, thus resulting in an impairment charge in a future period. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the acquired businesses will not perform in accordance with expectations; that we may become liable for unforeseen financial or business liabilities of the acquired businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations; that the expected synergies associated with acquisitions will not be achieved; and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect, which could have an material adverse effect on out financial condition and results of operations. Future cost containment initiatives undertaken by private third-party payors may limit our future net operating revenues and profitability. Initiatives undertaken by major insurers and managed care companies to contain healthcare costs affect the profitability of our specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics. These payors attempt to control healthcare costs by contracting with hospitals and other healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend may continue and may limit reimbursements for healthcare services. If insurers or managed care companies from whom we receive substantial payments reduce the amounts they pay for services, our profit margins may decline, or we may lose patients if we choose not to renew our contracts with these insurers at lower rates. If we fail to maintain established relationships with the physicians in the areas we serve, our net operating revenues may decrease. Our success is partially dependent upon the admissions and referral practices of the physicians in the communities our hospitals and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics serve, and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians. Physicians referring patients to our hospitals and clinics are generally not our employees and, in many of the local areas that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals and are free to refer their patients to other providers. If we are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these physicians, our hospitals’ admissions and clinics’ businesses may decrease, and our net operating revenues may decline. Changes in federal or state law limiting or prohibiting certain physician referrals may preclude physicians from investing in our hospitals or referring to hospitals in which they already own an interest. The federal self referral law, or “Stark Law,” prohibits a physician who has a financial relationship with an entity from referring his or her Medicare or Medicaid patients to that entity for certain designated health services, including inpatient and outpatient hospital services. Under the transparency and program integrity provisions of the PPACA, the exception to the Stark Law that previously permitted physicians to refer patients to hospitals in which they have an ownership or investment interest has been dramatically curtailed. Only hospitals, including LTCHs, with physician ownership and a provider agreement in place on December 31, 2010 are exempt from the general ban on self-referral. Existing physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the percentage of physician ownership or investment interests held in the hospital after March 23, 2010. In addition, physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the number of licensed beds after March 23, 2010, unless meeting specific exceptions related to the hospital’s location and patient population. In order to retain their exemption from the general ban on self-referrals, our physician-owned hospitals are required to adopt specific measures relating to conflicts of interest, bona fide investments and patient safety. Furthermore, initiatives are underway in some states to restrict physician referrals to physician-owned hospitals. Currently, ten of our hospitals have physicians as minority owners. The aggregate revenue of these ten hospitals was $178.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, or approximately 7.5% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. The range of physician minority ownership of these ten hospitals was 2.1% to 49.0%, with the average physician minority ownership of 34 11.5% as of the year ended December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that new legislation or regulation prohibiting or limiting physician referrals to physician-owned hospitals will not be successfully enacted in the future. If such federal or state laws are adopted, among other outcomes, physicians who have invested in our hospitals could be precluded from referring to, investing in or continuing to be physician owners of a hospital. In addition, expansion of our physician-owned hospitals may be limited, and the revenues, profitability and overall financial performance of our hospitals may be negatively affected. Shortages in qualified nurses or therapists could increase our operating costs significantly. Our specialty hospitals are highly dependent on nurses for patient care and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics are highly dependant on therapists for patient care. The availability of qualified nurses and therapists nationwide has declined in recent years, and the salaries for nurses and therapists have risen accordingly. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain qualified nurses or therapists in the future. Additionally, the cost of attracting and retaining nurses and therapists may be higher than we anticipate, and as a result, our profitability could decline. Competition may limit our ability to acquire hospitals and clinics and adversely affect our growth. We have historically faced limited competition in acquiring specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics, but we may face heightened competition in the future. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the hospitals and clinics that would be suitable acquisition candidates for us. This increased competition could hamper our ability to acquire companies, or such increased competition may cause us to pay a higher price than we would otherwise pay in a less competitive environment. Increased competition from both strategic and financial buyers could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or make our cost of acquisitions higher and therefore decrease our profitability. If we fail to compete effectively with other hospitals, clinics and healthcare providers in our local areas, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. The healthcare business is highly competitive, and we compete with other hospitals, rehabilitation clinics and other healthcare providers for patients. If we are unable to compete effectively in the specialty hospital and outpatient rehabilitation businesses, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. Many of our specialty hospitals operate in geographic areas where we compete with at least one other hospital that provides similar services. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics face competition from a variety of local and national outpatient rehabilitation providers. Other outpatient rehabilitation clinics in local areas we serve may have greater name recognition and longer operating histories than our clinics. The managers of these clinics may also have stronger relationships with physicians in their communities, which could give them a competitive advantage for patient referrals. Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose key members of our management team. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent in particular on our ability to retain and motivate five key employees, Rocco A. Ortenzio, our Executive Chairman, Robert A. Ortenzio, our Chief Executive Officer, Patricia A. Rice, our President and Chief Operating Officer, David S. Chernow, our President and Chief Strategy Officer and Martin F. Jackson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We currently have an employment agreement in place with each of Messrs. Rocco and Robert Ortenzio, Mr. Chernow and Ms. Rice and a change in control agreement with Mr. Jackson. Each of these individuals also has a significant equity ownership in our company. We have no reason to believe that we will lose the services of any of these individuals in the foreseeable future; however, we currently have no effective replacement for any of these individuals due to their experience, reputation in the industry and special role in our operations. We also do not maintain any key life insurance policies for any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals would disrupt significant aspects of our business, could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 35 Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities and in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at a reasonable price. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. We are also subject to lawsuits under federal and state whistleblower statutes designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. These whistleblower lawsuits are not covered by insurance and can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring the suits. See “Legal Proceedings” and Note 17 in our audited consolidated financial statements. We currently maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverages under a combination of policies with a total annual aggregate limit of $30.0 million. Our insurance for the professional liability coverage is written on a “claims-made” basis and our commercial general liability coverage is maintained on an “occurrence” basis. These coverages apply after a self-insured retention of $2.0 million per medical incident for professional liability claims and $2.0 million per occurrence for general liability claims. We review our insurance program annually and may make adjustments to the amount of insurance coverage and self-insured retentions in future years. There can be no assurance that malpractice insurance will be available in certain states in the future nor that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at a reasonable price. Since our professional liability insurance is on a claims-made basis, any failure to obtain malpractice insurance in any state in the future would increase our exposure not only to claims arising in such state in the future but also to claims arising from injuries that may have already occurred but which had not been reported during the period in which we previously had insurance coverage in that state. In addition, our insurance coverage does not cover punitive damages and may not cover all claims against us. See “Business — Government Regulations — Other Healthcare Regulations.” Concentration of ownership among our existing executives, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Welsh Carson and Thoma Cressey beneficially own approximately 43.9% and 8.3%, respectively, of Holdings’ outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2011. Our executives, directors and principal stockholders, including Welsh Carson and Thoma Cressey, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 69.6% of Holdings’ outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2011. As a result, these stockholders have significant control over our management and policies and are able to exercise influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. The directors elected by these stockholders are able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and incur indebtedness. This influence may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. We are a holding company and therefore depend on our subsidiaries to service our obligations under our indebtedness and for any funds to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends to our stockholders depends entirely upon the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions. We have no operations of our own and derive all of our revenues and cash flow from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due under our 10% senior subordinated notes and senior floating rate notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. In addition, any of our rights in the assets of any of our subsidiaries upon any liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including lenders under our senior secured credit facility and holders of Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes. Holdings’ total consolidated balance sheet liabilities as of December 31, 2010 were $1,906.7 million, of which $1,430.8 million constituted indebtedness, including $506.8 million of indebtedness (excluding $29.0 million of letters of credit) under our senior secured credit facility, $611.5 million of Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes, $139.2 million of our 10% senior subordinated notes and $167.3 million of our senior floating rate notes. As of such date, we would have been able to borrow up to an additional $246.0 million 36 under our senior secured credit facility. We and our restricted subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. We depend on our subsidiaries, which conduct the operations of the business, for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness. We would also depend on our subsidiaries for any funds to pay dividends to our stockholders. In the event our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the terms of the indentures governing Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes restrict Select and its subsidiaries from, in each case, paying dividends or otherwise transferring its assets to us. Such restrictions include, among others, financial covenants, prohibition of dividends in the event of a default and limitations on the total amount of dividends. In addition, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing other current and future indebtedness, as well as financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, currently limit and may, in the future, limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The earnings from other available assets of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness when such payments are due. In addition, even if such earnings were sufficient, we cannot assure you that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit such subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund interest and principal payments on our indebtedness when due. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividends or otherwise distribute funds to us, we may not be able to satisfy the terms of our indebtedness, there will not be sufficient funds remaining to make distributions to our stockholders and the value of your investment in our common stock will be materially decreased. Our substantial indebtedness may limit the amount of cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1,430.8 million of total indebtedness. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, we paid cash interest of $126.7 million and $105.9 million, respectively on our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it: • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development activity, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increases our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; • makes us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and the senior floating rate notes are at variable rates; • limits our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes, such as raising the funds necessary to repurchase all notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership; and • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our senior secured credit facility requires Select to comply with certain financial covenants, the default of which may result in the acceleration of certain of our indebtedness. Our senior secured credit facility requires Select to maintain certain interest expense coverage ratios and leverage ratios which become more restrictive over time. For the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended 37 December 31, 2010, Select was required to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio (its ratio of consolidated EBITDA to cash interest expense) for the prior four consecutive quarters of at least 2.00 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2010, Select was required to maintain its leverage ratio (its ratio of total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters) at less than 4.50 to 1.00. For the four quarters ended December 31, 2010, Select’s interest expense coverage ratio was 3.12 to 1.00 and Select’s leverage ratio was 3.39 to 1.00. While Select has never defaulted on compliance with any of these financial covenants, its ability to comply with these ratios in the future may be affected by events beyond its control. Inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility. In the event of any default under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Any default under our senior secured credit facility that results in the acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility would also constitute an event of default under Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes and the senior floating rate notes, and the trustee or holders of each such notes could elect to declare such notes to be immediately due and payable. Despite our substantial level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Although our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing each of Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes and the senior floating rate notes each contain or will contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us or our subsidiaries from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had $246.0 million of revolving loan availability under our senior secured credit facility (after giving effect to $29.0 million of outstanding letters of credit). In addition, to the extent new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. Our inability to access external sources of financing when our senior secured credit facility, Tranche B term loans and Tranche B-1 term loans terminate could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our Tranche B term loans mature on February 24, 2012 and Tranche B-1 term loans mature on August 22, 2014. Our revolving credit facility will terminate on August 22, 2013. Our inability to refinance our revolving credit facility, Tranche B term loans and Tranche B-1 term loans prior to their scheduled termination or maturity could cause an event of default under our senior secured credit facility because we may not otherwise have cash available to make final repayments of principal under our revolving credit facility, Tranche B term loans and Tranche B-1 term loans. If an event of default were to occur under our senior secured credit facility due to our failure to make repayments of principal upon the termination or maturity of our revolving credit facility, Tranche B term loans or Tranche B-1 term loans, then an event of default would also occur under Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes, our senior floating rate notes and our 10% senior subordinated notes. Upon an event of default under our senior secured credit facility, Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes, our senior floating rate notes and our 10% senior subordinated notes, our lenders will be entitled to take various actions, including all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 