Item 1A. Risk Factors We are largely dependent on the life science industry for revenues from lease payments In general, our strategy is to invest primarily in properties used by tenants in the life science industry. Our business could be adversely affected if the life science industry experiences an economic downturn or migrates from U.S. to other countries. Because of our industry focus, events within the life science industry may have a more pronounced effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders than if we had more diversified investments. Also, some of our properties may be better suited for a particular life science industry tenant and could require modification before we are able to re-lease vacant space to another life science industry tenant. Generally, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants without significant expenditures on renovations. Our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations in future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. Our tenants may not be able to pay us if they are unsuccessful in discovering, developing, making or selling their products and technologies Our life science industry tenants are subject to a number of risks, including the following, any one or more of which may adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us. Some of our tenants developing potential drugs may find that their drugs are not effective, or may even be harmful, when tested in humans. Some of our tenants may not be able to manufacture their drugs economically, even if such drugs are proven through human clinical trials to be safe and effective in humans. Drugs that are developed and manufactured by some of our tenants require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold and used. The regulatory approval process to manufacture and market drugs is costly, typically takes several years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources and is often unpredictable. A tenant may fail or experience significant delays in obtaining these approvals. Some of our tenants and their licensors require patent, copyright or trade secret protection to develop, make, market and sell their products and technologies. A tenant may be unable to commercialize its products or technologies if patents covering such products or technologies do not issue, or are successfully challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented by third parties, or if a tenant fails to obtain licenses to the discoveries of third parties necessary to commercialize its products or technologies. A drug made by a tenant may not be well accepted by doctors and patients, or may be less effective or accepted than competitor's drugs, or may be subsequently recalled from the market, even if it is successfully developed, proven safe and effective in human clinical trials, manufactured and the requisite regulatory approvals are obtained. Some of our tenants require significant funding to develop and commercialize their products and technologies, which funding must be obtained from private investors, the public markets, companies in the life science industry or federal, state and local governments. Such funding may become unavailable or difficult to obtain. Even with sufficient funding, some of our tenants may not be able to discover or identify potential drug targets in humans, or potential drugs for use in humans, or to create tools or technologies which are commercially useful in the discovery or identification of potential drug targets or drugs. We cannot assure you that our tenants will be able to develop, make, market or sell their products and technologies due to the risks inherent in the life science industry. Any tenant that is unable to avoid, or sufficiently mitigate, the risks described above, may have difficulty making rental payments to us. We could be held liable for damages resulting from our tenants' use of hazardous materials Many of our life science industry tenants engage in research and development activities that involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and biological and radioactive compounds. In the event of contamination or injury from the use of these hazardous materials, we could be held liable for damages that result. This liability could exceed our resources and any recovery available through any applicable environmental remediation insurance coverage, and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Together with our tenants, we must comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. Failure to comply with, or changes in, these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business or our tenants' business and their ability to make rental payments to us. The inability of a tenant to pay us rent could adversely affect our business Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If our tenants, especially significant tenants, fail to make rental payments under their leases, our financial condition, cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, we had 370 leases with a total of 310 tenants, and 80 of our 159 properties were single-tenant properties. Our three largest tenants accounted for approximately 14.9% of our aggregate annualized base rent, or approximately 7.9%, 3.9% and 3.1%, respectively. "Annualized base rent" means the annualized fixed base rental amount in effect as of December 31, 2006, using rental revenues calculated on a straight-line basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Annualized base rent does not include reimbursements for real estate taxes and insurance, common area and other operating expenses, substantially all of which are borne by the tenants in the case of triple net leases. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may also adversely affect the income produced by a property. If any of our tenants becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict that tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court may authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against such a tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory limitation that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed to us under the tenant's lease. Any shortfall in rent payments could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our U.S. government tenants may not receive annual budget appropriations, which could adversely affect their ability to pay us U.S. government tenants may be subject to annual budget appropriations. If one of our U.S. government tenants fails to receive its annual budget appropriation, it might not be able to make its lease payments to us. In addition, defaults under leases with federal government tenants are governed by federal statute and not by state eviction or rent deficiency laws. All of our leases with U.S. government tenants provide that the government tenant may terminate the lease under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2006, leases with U.S. government tenants at our properties accounted for approximately 3.2% of our aggregate annualized base rent. Our inability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire may significantly affect our business Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expense under our leases. If a tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other types of financial distress, it may be unable to make timely payments under its lease. Also, when our tenants decide not to renew their leases or terminate early, we may not be able to re-lease the space. Even if tenants decide to renew or lease space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of any tenant improvements, concessions and lease commissions, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Consequently, we could lose the cash flow from the affected property, which could negatively impact our business. We may have to divert cash flow generated by other properties to meet our mortgage payments, if any, or to pay other expenses related to owning the affected property. As of December 31, 2006, leases at our properties representing approximately 12.8% and 7.9% of the total square footage of our properties were scheduled to expire in 2007 and 2008, respectively. Poor economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect our business Our properties are located only in the following markets: California - Los Angeles Metro; California - San Diego; California - San Francisco Bay; Eastern Massachusetts; International - Canada; New Jersey/Suburban Philadelphia; New York City; Southeast; Suburban Washington D.C.; and Washington - Seattle. As a result of our geographic concentration, we depend upon the local economic conditions in these markets, including local real estate conditions. We are, therefore, subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to economic and other competitive factors specific to markets in confined geographic areas. Our operations may also be affected if too many competing properties are built in any of these markets. An economic downturn in any of these markets could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We cannot assure you that these markets will continue to grow or will remain favorable to the life science industry. We may have difficulty managing our growth We expect to continue to grow by selectively redeveloping, developing and acquiring additional properties in our key life science cluster markets. To manage our growth effectively, we must successfully integrate new properties into our existing operations. We may not succeed with the integration. In addition, we may not effectively manage new properties, and new properties may not perform as expected. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in managing our growth. Our debt service obligations may have adverse consequences on our business operations We use debt to finance our operations, including redevelopment, development and acquisitions of properties. Our use of debt may have adverse consequences, including the following: Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt. We may default on our debt obligations, and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure those loans. A foreclosure on one of our properties could create taxable income without any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the tax. A default under a mortgage loan that has cross default provisions may cause us to automatically default on another loan. We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt. The terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. We may be subject to a significant increase in the variable interest rates on our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan and certain other borrowings, which could adversely impact our operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $1.2 billion, secured by 76 properties and 11 land development parcels, and outstanding debt under our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan of $850 million. In January 2007, we completed a private offering of $460 million of 3.70% convertible unsecured notes due in 2027. Our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan restrict our ability to engage in some business activities Our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan facilities contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness; restrict our ability to make certain investments; restrict our ability to merge with another company; restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders; require us to maintain financial coverage ratios; and require us to maintain a pool of unencumbered assets approved by the lenders. These restrictions could cause us to default on our unsecured line of credit and unsecured term loan or negatively affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may not be able to obtain additional capital to further our business objectives Our ability to redevelop, develop or acquire properties depends upon our ability to obtain capital. Periodically, the real estate industry experiences reduced supplies of favorably-priced equity or debt capital, which decreases the level of new investment activity by publicly-traded real estate companies. A prolonged period in which we cannot effectively access the public equity or debt markets may result in heavier reliance on alternative financing sources to undertake new investments. An inability to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing and completing desirable investments, which could adversely affect our business. Also, the issuance of additional shares of capital stock or interests in subsidiaries to fund future operations could dilute the ownership of then existing stockholders. We have filed a "shelf" registration statement on Form S-3, under which we may offer from time to time and at our discretion, common stock, preferred stock, warrants and debt securities in amounts, at prices and on terms to be determined at the time of offering. If interest rates rise, our debt service costs will increase Borrowings outstanding under our unsecured line of credit, unsecured term loan and certain other borrowings bear interest at a variable rate, and we may incur additional variable rate debt in the future. Increases in market interest rates would increase our interest expense under these debt instruments and would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. Accordingly, these increases could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have spaces available for redevelopment that may be difficult to redevelop or successfully lease to tenants A key component of our internal growth is through the redevelopment of existing office, warehouse or shell space as generic laboratory space that can be leased at higher rates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to initiate the redevelopment of spaces or complete spaces undergoing redevelopment. Redevelopment activities subject us to many risks, including delays in permitting, financing availability, engaging contractors, availability and pricing of materials and labor and other redevelopment uncertainties. In addition, there can be no assurance that, upon completion, we will be able to successfully lease the space or lease the space at rental rates at or above the returns on our investment anticipated by our stockholders. We may be unsuccessful with our real estate development activities A significant component of our current and future internal growth is through the ground-up development of generic laboratory space. Our success with our development projects depend on many risks that may adversely affect our business, including those associated with: delays in construction; budget overruns; lack of availability and/or increasing costs of materials; commodity pricing of building materials and supplies; financing availability; volatility in interest rates; labor availability; timing of the commencement of rental payments; delays or denials of entitlements or permits; and other property development uncertainties. In addition, development activities, regardless of whether they are ultimately successful, typically require a substantial portion of management's time and attention. This may distract management from focusing on other operational activities. If we are unable to complete development projects successfully, our business may be adversely affected. Our real estate development strategy has and will continue to increase in the future We will continue to pursue opportunities to acquire land for future ground-up development and we will continue to initiate ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 1.2 million square feet undergoing ground-up development and we had an imbedded pipeline for ground-up development of an additional 5.9 million rentable square feet. Our existing projects undergoing ground-up development and future ground-up development projects increase our risk of unsuccessful real estate development activities which may have an adverse affect on our business. We may not be able to acquire properties or operate them successfully Our success depends in large part upon our ability to acquire additional properties on satisfactory terms and to operate them successfully. If we are unable to do so, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the acquisition of life science properties generally involves a higher per square foot price than the acquisition of traditional office properties. The acquisition, ownership and operation of real estate is subject to many risks that may adversely affect our business and our ability to make payments to our stockholders, including the risks that: Our properties may not perform as we expect. We may not be able to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant capital. We may lease space at rates below our expectations. We may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We may overpay for new acquisitions. We may underestimate the cost of improvements required to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property. If we encounter any of these risks, our business and our ability to make payments to our stockholders could be adversely affected. If our revenues are less than our expenses, we may have to borrow additional funds and we may not be able to make distributions to our stockholders If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and other capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs and cash flow needs. This could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Factors that could adversely affect the revenues from, and the values of, our properties include: national and local economic conditions; competition from other life science properties; changes in the life science industry; real estate conditions in our target markets; our ability to collect rent payments; availability of financing; changes in interest rate levels; vacancies at our properties and our ability to re-lease space; changes in tax or other regulatory laws; costs of compliance with government regulation; lack of liquidity of real estate investments; and increases in operating costs. In addition, if a lease at a property is not a triple net lease, we will have greater expenses associated with that property and greater exposure to increases in such expenses. Significant expenditures, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are fixed and do not decrease when revenues at the related property decrease. Improvements to life science properties are significantly more costly than traditional office space Our properties contain generic infrastructure improvements that are significantly more costly than other property types. Although we have historically been able to recover the additional investment in generic infrastructure improvements through higher rental rates, there is the risk that we will not be able to continue to do so in the future. Typical improvements include: reinforced concrete floors; upgraded roof loading capacity; increased floor to ceiling heights; heavy-duty HVAC systems; enhanced environmental control technology; significantly upgraded electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure; and laboratory benches. We may not be able to sell our properties quickly to raise money Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid. Accordingly, we may not be able to sell our properties when we desire or at acceptable prices in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code limits our ability to sell properties held for fewer than four years. These limitations on our ability to sell our properties may adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We face substantial competition in our target markets The significant competition for business in our target markets could have an adverse effect on our operations. We compete for investment opportunities with: insurance companies; pension and investment funds; private equity entities; partnerships; developers; investment companies; other REITs; and owner/occupants. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than us or accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. Our properties may have defects that are unknown to us Although we review the physical condition of our properties before they are acquired, and on a periodic basis after acquisition, any of our properties may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to us that could adversely affect the property's value or revenue potential. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed at corporate rates and would not be able to take certain deductions when computing our taxable income If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify as a REIT: We would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing taxable income. Unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. We would no longer be required by the Internal Revenue Code to make any distributions to our stockholders. As a result of any additional tax liability, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Accordingly, funds available for investment or distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and financial results, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we believe that we have operated, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1996, in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, although we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to operate as a REIT, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders. There are limits on the ownership of our capital stock under which a stockholder may lose beneficial ownership of its shares The Internal Revenue Code provides that, in order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals or entities. In addition, our charter prohibits, with certain limited exceptions, direct or constructive ownership of shares of our capital stock representing more than 9.8% of the combined total value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock by any person (the "Ownership Limit"). Our Board of Directors may exempt a stockholder from the Ownership Limit if, prior to the exemption, our Board of Directors receives all information it deems necessary to determine or ensure our status as a REIT. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of our common stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. A transfer of shares to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the Ownership Limit, may be void or may be deemed to be made to a trust, for the benefit of one or more qualified charitable organizations designated by us. In that case, the intended transferee will have only a right to share, to the extent of the transferee's original purchase price for such shares, in proceeds from the trust's sale of those shares. In addition to the ownership limit, certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent transactions that may be deemed to be desirable to our stockholders As authorized by Maryland law, our charter allows our Board of Directors to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify unissued shares of common or preferred stock without any stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or for other reasons be desired by our common stockholders or that have a dividend preference which may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our charter permits the removal of a director only upon a two-thirds vote of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors and our bylaws require advance notice of a stockholder's intention to nominate directors or to present business for consideration by stockholders at an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that involves a premium price for our common stock or that for other reasons may be desired by our stockholders. Under our Stockholder Rights Plan, if a stockholder acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock, other stockholders would become entitled to purchase our common stock at half the market price, which would likely result in substantial dilution to the 15% or greater stockholder. This may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or for other reasons desired by our common stockholders. Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses If we experience a loss at any of our properties that is not covered by insurance or that exceeds our insurance policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the affected property and, possibly, future revenues from that property. In addition, we could continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the affected properties. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. We have obtained earthquake insurance for all of our properties because many of them are located in the vicinity of active earthquake faults. We also carry environmental remediation insurance and have title insurance policies on all of our properties. We obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire the property, with each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property. We believe that our insurance policy specifications, insured limits and deductibles are consistent with or superior to those customarily carried for similar properties. Our tenants are also required to maintain comprehensive insurance, including liability and casualty insurance, that is customarily obtained for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that we and our tenants do not generally insure against because they are uninsurable or because it is not economical to insure against them. In the current market, there have recently been substantial increases in the premium cost of property and liability insurance. The availability of coverage against certain types of losses, such as from terrorism or toxic mold, has become more limited and, when available, is at a significantly higher premium cost. We cannot predict whether insurance coverage against terrorism or toxic mold will remain available for our properties because insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against such losses or, if offered, such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. Many, but not all, of our properties are low-rise buildings. Toxic mold has not presented any material problems at any of our properties. We could incur significant costs complying with environmental laws Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may require us, as a current or prior owner or operator of real estate, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products released at or from any of our properties. The cost of investigating and cleaning up contamination could be substantial and could exceed the amount of any environmental remediation insurance coverage available to us. In addition, the presence of contamination, or the failure to properly clean it up, may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell an affected property, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Under environmental laws and regulations, we may have to pay governmental entities or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties relating to contaminated properties regardless of whether we knew of or caused the contamination. Even if more than one party may have been responsible for the contamination, we may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs. In addition, third parties may sue us for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination or jointly responsible parties may contest their responsibility or be financially unable to pay their share of such costs. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing materials. These laws may impose fines and penalties on us for the release of asbestos-containing materials and may allow third parties to seek recovery from us for personal injury from exposure to asbestos fibers. We have detected asbestos-containing materials at some of our properties, but we do not expect that it will result in material environmental costs or liabilities to us. Environmental laws and regulations also require the removal or upgrading of certain underground storage tanks and regulate: the discharge of storm water, wastewater and any water pollutants; the emission of air pollutants; the generation, management and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals, substances or wastes; and workplace health and safety. Many of our tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities. Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant's ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental assessments at all of our properties. We intend to use consultants to conduct similar environmental assessments on our future acquisitions. This type of assessment generally includes a site inspection, interviews and a public records review, but no subsurface sampling. These assessments and certain additional investigations of our properties have not to date revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The additional investigations have included, as appropriate: asbestos surveys; radon surveys; lead surveys; mold surveys; additional public records review; subsurface sampling; and other testing. Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our properties have not revealed, or that assessments on future acquisitions, will not reveal all environmental liabilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware that may result in substantial costs to us or our tenants and that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans With Disabilities Act and similar laws Under the Americans With Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation and/or commercial facilities are required to meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with this law. In addition, our noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. A number of additional federal, state and local laws and regulations exist regarding access by disabled persons. These regulations may require modifications to our properties or may affect future renovations. This may limit the overall returns on our investments. We believe that our properties are substantially in compliance with the present requirements of the Americans With Disabilities Act and similar laws. We may incur significant costs if we fail to comply with laws or if laws change Our properties are subject to many federal, state and local regulatory requirements and to state and local fire and life-safety requirements. If we do not comply with all of these requirements, we may have to pay fines to governmental authorities or damage awards to private litigants. We believe that our properties are currently in compliance with all of these regulatory requirements. We do not know whether these requirements will change or whether new requirements will be imposed. Changes in these regulatory requirements could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. These expenditures could have an adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The loss of services of any of our senior executive officers could adversely affect us We depend upon the services of relatively few executive officers. The loss of services of any one of them may adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. We use the extensive personal and business relationships that members of our management have developed over time with owners of life science properties and with major life science industry tenants. We cannot assure you that our senior executive officers will remain employed with us. We may change our business policies without stockholder approval Our Board of Directors determines all of our material business policies, with management's input, including those related to our: status as a REIT; incurrence of debt and debt management activities; selective development and acquisition activities; stockholder distributions; and other policies, as appropriate. Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these policies could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We could become highly leveraged and our debt service obligations could increase Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. Therefore, we could become highly leveraged. This would result in an increase in our debt service obligations that could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Higher leverage could also increase the risk of default on our debt obligations. Our distributions to stockholders may decline at any time We may not continue our current level of distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors will determine future distributions based on a number of factors, including: our amount of cash available for distribution; our financial condition; any decision by our Board of Directors to reinvest funds rather than to distribute such funds; our capital expenditures; the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code; and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Possible future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect its market price We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of shares of our common stock on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of capital stock (including common stock issued upon the exercise of stock options, upon conversion of convertible debt securities or redemption of preferred stock), or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We have reserved for issuance to our officers, directors and employees pursuant to our Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan that number of shares of our common stock that equals 12% of the total number of shares outstanding at any time, provided that in no event may the number of shares of our common stock available for issuance under the plan exceed 3,000,000 shares at any time. As of December 31, 2006, a total of 942,283 shares we reserved for issuance under our 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan. As of December 31, 2006, options to purchase 338,680 shares of our common stock were outstanding, all of which were exercisable. We have filed a registration statement with respect to the issuance of shares of our common stock pursuant to grants under our equity incentive plan. In addition, any shares issued under our equity incentive plan will be available for sale in the public market from time to time without restriction by persons who are not our "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act of 1933). Affiliates will be able to sell shares of our common stock pursuant to exemptions from registration requirements or upon registration. External factors may adversely impact the valuation of investments We hold equity investments in certain publicly-traded companies and privately held entities primarily involved in the life science industry. The valuation of these investments is affected by many external factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, market prices, market conditions, prospects for favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product initiatives and new collaborative agreements. Unfavorable developments with respect to any of these factors may have an adverse impact on the valuation of our investments. We are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies As of December 31, 2006, we had three properties located in Canada. We are pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, additional growth opportunities in Canada and other international markets. Investments in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the national currency are subject to international currency risk from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currency. A significant decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar or other foreign currencies where we may have a significant investment could materially affect our results of operations. We may attempt to mitigate such effects by borrowing in the local foreign currency in which we invest. Any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 