ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The supermarket business is highly competitive and characterized by narrow profit margins. Results of operations may be materially adversely impacted by competitive pricing and promotional programs, industry consolidation and competitor store openings. Village competes with national and regional supermarkets, local supermarkets, warehouse club stores, supercenters, drug stores, convenience stores, dollar stores, discount merchandisers, restaurants and other local retailers. Competition with these outlets is based on price, store location, promotion, product assortment, quality and service. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do. GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION AND NEW TRADE AREA The Company’s stores are concentrated in New Jersey, with one store in northeastern Pennsylvania and two in Maryland. We are vulnerable to economic downturns in New Jersey in addition to those that may affect the country as a whole. Economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates, energy costs and unemployment rates may adversely affect our sales and profits. Further, since our store base is concentrated in densely populated metropolitan areas, opportunities for future store expansion may be limited, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 7 Village acquired two stores in July 2011 in Maryland, a new market for Village where the ShopRite name is less known than in New Jersey. As the Company begins operating in this new market, marketing and other costs will be higher than in established markets as Village attempts to build market share and brand awareness. In addition, sales for these two stores are initially expected to be lower than the typical Company store. Potentially higher costs and sales results lower than the Company’s expectations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. WAKEFERN RELATIONSHIP Village purchases substantially all of its merchandise from Wakefern. In addition, Wakefern provides the Company with support services in numerous areas including supplies, advertising, liability and property insurance, technology support and other store services. Further, Village receives patronage dividends and other product incentives from Wakefern. Any material change in Wakefern’s method of operation or a termination or material modification of Village’s relationship with Wakefern could have an adverse impact on the conduct of the Company’s business and could involve additional expense for Village. The failure of any Wakefern member to fulfill its obligations to Wakefern or a member’s insolvency or withdrawal from Wakefern could result in increased costs to the Company. Additionally, an adverse change in Wakefern’s results of operations could have an adverse affect on Village’s results of operations. LABOR RELATIONS A significant majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including any work stoppages, could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care and pension costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. This could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreement, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. FOOD SAFETY The Company could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the food supply chain. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, could discourage consumers from buying our products. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in a loss of consumer confidence and product liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. REPLACEMENT STORES The Company is currently planning the construction of two replacement stores. If we are unable to open these replacement stores before existing store lease expirations and we are unable to execute lease extensions, we may be adversely impacted by any potential time period between the closure of our existing stores and the opening of the replacement stores. If we execute lease extensions on the existing stores, terms may be unfavorable and we may incur charges for rental obligations for periods after store closure. MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION PLANS The Company is required to make contributions to multi-employer pension plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are funded. Benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. Based on the most recent information available to us, certain of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related items will be issues in the negotiation of our collective bargaining agreements. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur a withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under complex actuarial and allocation rules. The failure of a withdrawing employer to fund these obligations can impact remaining employers. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations and the actual return on assets held in the plans, among other factors. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information relating to our participation in multi-employer pension plans. 8 On April 15, 2011, Village, along with all of the other individual employers trading as ShopRite, permanently withdrew from participating in the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 152 Retail Meat Pension Fund (“the Fund”), effective the end of April 2011. The Fund is a multi-employer defined benefit plan that includes other supermarket operators. Village, along with the other affiliated ShopRite operators, determined to withdraw from the Fund due to exposures to market risks associated with all defined benefit plans and the inability to partition ShopRite’s liabilities from those of the other participating supermarket operators. Village now provides affected associates with a defined contribution plan for future service, which eliminates market risks and the exposure to shared liabilities of other operators, and is estimated to be less costly than the defined benefit plan in the future, while ensuring that our associates are provided a secure benefit. The Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $7,028 in fiscal 2011 for this withdrawal liability, which represented our estimate of the liability based on calculations provided by the Fund actuary. The Company settled this obligation in January 2012, resulting in a pre-tax benefit of $646 in fiscal 2012. Village remains liable for potential additional withdrawal liabilities to the Fund in the event a mass withdrawal, as defined by statute, occurs within two plan years after the plan year of Village’s withdrawal. Such liabilities could be material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS During fiscal 2012 and 2011, the supermarket industry was impacted by changing consumer behavior due to the weak economy and high unemployment. Consumers are increasingly cooking meals at home, but spending cautiously by trading down to lower priced items, including private label, and concentrating their buying on sale items. Our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected if the above trends continue. Also, the Company estimates that product prices overall experienced inflation in fiscal 2012 and in the second half of 2011. TAXES The Company’s effective tax rate may be impacted by the results of tax examinations and changes in tax laws, including the disputes with the state of New Jersey described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 