ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this filing, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Each of these risks is subject to many factors beyond our control. If we are not successful in managing our operating strategy and each of its elements, we expect our results of operations will be adversely affected and, as a consequence, our stock price may decline. Current economic conditions, particularly in our Florida markets, may inhibit new sales growth and negatively impact our current clients, causing them to reduce staffing levels or cease operations. The current economic downturn is negatively impacting small and medium size businesses, which constitute our primary markets, inhibiting their growth as well as their access to capital, particularly in terms of credit availability. In turn, these businesses are cutting costs, including reducing employee headcount, or ceasing operations altogether. This negatively impacts our revenues, as we rely on a “per employee” professional service fee from our clients and could potentially materially impact the amount of our bad debt expense. In addition, businesses are more reluctant to enter into new service agreements because of the uncertainty regarding the timing of any economic recovery. If these trends continue, our operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The financial markets have recently experienced significant turmoil which may negatively impact our liquidity, our ability to obtain financing and our ability to process transactions through the banking system. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing may be negatively impacted if one of our Lenders under our credit facility, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues or ceases operations. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion of, our credit facility or timely process payroll and collection transactions through the banking system. Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing, in addition to our current credit facility, we may be unable to obtain such financing which could materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and cash flows. We rely on one financial institution to handle direct deposit payroll. Should this financial institution delay or stop processing these transactions, our business could suffer. We currently have a banking relationship with one financial institution to electronically transfer all of our payroll that is delivered to client employees by direct bank deposit through the automated clearing house, or ACH, system with this bank. If this bank were to terminate its services, delay the processing of transfers or cease operating and we were not able to obtain these services in a timely manner or on acceptable terms from other banks, our business could materially suffer. Our short-term results may be negatively impacted due to changes in health insurance claims, state unemployment tax rates and workers’ compensation rates, which we may not be able to immediately pass through to our clients. Health insurance costs, workers’ compensation and employment practices liability insurance rates and state unemployment taxes are primarily determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our actual costs. Should we experience a significant increase in claims activity, due to the current economic downturn or otherwise, we may experience a substantial increase in our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes, or workers’ compensation and employment practices liability insurance rates. Our ability to pass such increases through to our clients on a timely basis may be delayed and our clients may not agree to the increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance-related loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We maintain loss reserves to cover our liabilities for the costs of our health care and workers’ compensation programs. These reserves are not an exact calculation of our liability, but rather are estimates based on a number of factors including but not limited to actuarial calculations, current and historical loss trends and payment patterns, the number of open claims, developments relating to the actual claims incurred, medical trend rates and the impact of acquisitions, if any. Variables in the reserve estimation may be affected by both internal and external factors, such as changes in claims handling procedures, fluctuations in the administrative costs associated with the program, economic conditions, fiscal policies, interest rates, legal determinations and legislative and regulatory changes. Although our reserves estimates are regularly refined as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled, because of the uncertainties of estimating loss reserves, we cannot assure you that our reserves are adequate, and actual costs 15 Table of Contents and expenses may exceed our reserves. If our reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses we may incur potentially material charges to our earnings. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if insurance coverage for workers’ compensation or medical benefits is not available or if we lose relationships with our key providers or if our key providers are unable to pay our claims. As part of our full range of services, we offer medical benefits coverage and workers’ compensation insurance to our clients. We depend on a small number of key providers for the majority of our medical benefits and workers compensation coverage, including AIG CI, BCBSF/HOI, UnitedHealthcare and Aetna. If any of our insurance providers discontinue coverage or cease operations, the time and expense of providing replacement coverage could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Replacement coverage could lead to client dissatisfaction and attrition (especially since most clients may terminate with either 30 or 45 days notice) due to the lack of continuity between coverage providers and the difference in the terms and conditions of their respective coverage plans. In addition, if at any time we are unable to renew our existing policies on financial terms and premium rates acceptable to us, our ability to provide such insurance and benefits to our clients would be adversely impacted, which could lead to significant client attrition, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our inability to renew existing policies may jeopardize compliance with state regulatory requirements and subject us to fines and extra costs to satisfy the state requirements or, at worst, eliminate our ability to provide services in those states. The loss of our ability to provide services, even for a short period, would negatively impact our image with our clients and could lead to the termination of our service agreements and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, disruptions in the financial markets, exposure to sub-prime mortgage securities and adverse action by rating agencies could adversely affect the financial stability of certain insurance companies. As a result the ability of the insurance companies to pay claims could be significantly impaired. We are required to provide significant cash collateral or letters of credit for our obligations to our insurance providers and the amount of cash or letter of credit necessary to provide that collateral may increase in the future. Our workers’ compensation provider and one of our primary health care insurance providers require cash collateralization of our insurance plans either by way of a cash deposit or delivery of a letter of credit. In the future our other health care insurance providers may require cash collateral or letters of credit as a condition of renewing their respective programs. The extent of such requirements is dependent upon several factors such as our financial condition, as well as the workers’ compensation and health insurance claims experience of our clients. We have little control over our clients’ claims experience except in the decision to initially accept and retain such clients. These collateral requirements may affect our need for capital, as well as our profitability. We may not be able to raise or provide the additional capital or collateral, if needed. In addition, we may be required to post additional collateral for the benefit of our insurance providers as a result of growing our business, which amounts could be significant, and may cause a significant amount of our cash to be restricted from other uses. We may not be able to raise, access or provide the additional capital or letters of credit as collateral, if needed which could materially adversely impact our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. Our workers’ compensation coverage is provided by AIG CI. Our workers’ compensation receivable from AIG CI represents a significant concentration of credit risk. If AIG CI were unable to pay our claims or return our excess loss fund collateral that comprises our workers’ compensation receivable, our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2008, we have a net workers’ compensation receivable from AIG CI of $115.3 million for premium payments and the related accrued interest receivable on those payments made to AIG CI for program years 2000-2008 in excess of the present value of the estimated claims liability. If AIG CI were to cease operations or otherwise default on their obligations, we may not be able to recover our receivable and the payment of our claims could be significantly impaired. This would have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Disruptions in the financial markets, the current economic downturn, exposure to sub-prime mortgage securities and adverse action by rating agencies could adversely affect the financial stability of certain insurance companies. As a result, the ability of the insurance companies to pay claims could be significantly impaired. AIG has been negatively impacted by the current economic crisis. However, AIG has publicly stated that its regulated member insurance company subsidiaries remain well capitalized and financially secure and current insurance agency ratings are strong. We do not believe that the current financial condition of AIG will have a material adverse effect on the ability of its regulated insurance company subsidiaries to pay out claims or return excess collateral. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to manage health care costs affects our profitability. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to appropriately predict and manage future health care costs through underwriting criteria and negotiation of favorable contracts with health care plan providers. The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics, the introduction of new or costly treatments resulting from advances in medical technology and other factors continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements have also caused the private sector to assume a greater share of increasing health care costs. Changes in health care practices, inflation, new technologies, increases in the cost of prescription drugs, direct-to-consumer marketing by pharmaceutical companies, clusters of high cost cases, utilization levels, changes in the regulatory environment, health care provider or member fraud, and numerous other factors affecting the cost of health care can be beyond any health plan provider’s control and may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage health care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and operating results. We use actuarial data to assist us in analyzing and projecting these amounts, however, we and our carriers may not be successful in managing the cost of our plans. Accordingly, our costs under our health benefit plans may exceed our estimates, requiring us to fund the difference. Any significant funding obligation may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our business is subject to risks associated with vendor agreements. We rely on certain vendors to provide services to our clients. If these vendors cease operations, are sold or cancel/do not renew their service agreements with us, it may cause potential service interruptions while replacement providers are located, in addition to potential increases in costs of obtaining these services. Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration. While we currently have offices in 13 states and client employees all 50 states and the District of Columbia, billings from our Florida operations accounted for approximately, 56% in 2006, 50% in 2007 and 56% in 2008. As a result of the size of our base of client employees in Florida and anticipated continued growth from our Florida operations, our profitability over the next several years is expected to be largely dependent on economic and regulatory conditions in Florida and other states representing more than 5% of our billings. As the Florida economy or the economies of other key states experience economic downturns and their growth rates slow, our profitability and growth prospects, or perception of these things, may be adversely affected. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to duplicate in other markets the revenue growth and operating results experienced in Florida. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate, and we may not be able to grow as we have planned. Our revenue, margins and results from operations generally have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Quarterly variations in our operating results occur as a result of a number of factors beyond our control, including: · competition for, and winning and maintaining, new clients with large employee counts; · market acceptance of new services; · market acceptance of our pricing; · our ability to achieve our strategy and long-term performance standards, including our ability to pass through costs of our products and services, such as rising health insurance premiums and state unemployment taxes, among other elements of our strategy; · charges due to workers’ compensation claims, health insurance claims, and state unemployment taxes; · new product introductions or announcements by us or our competitors; · client attrition; · effectively controlling our operating and other expenses; · the costs of hiring and training of additional staff; and · general economic conditions. 17 Table of Contents Due to the presence of any of these factors, we may not be able to sustain our level of total revenue or our historical rate of revenue growth on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results could fall below our targets and the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. We may find it difficult to expand or maintain our business in certain states due to varying state regulatory requirements and the existing competitive environment. We currently operate primarily in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. Future growth or maintenance of our operations in these states or additional states depends, in part, on the regulatory and competitive environment in such states. In order to operate effectively in a state, we must obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, adapt our procedures to that state’s regulatory requirements and adapt our service offerings to local market conditions. In certain states, we may determine that the costs of doing business exceeds our actual or anticipated financial performance resulting in a reduction or cessation of operations within such state or decision not to expand into a state. We are also subject to additional competition from regional and local competitors in the markets in which we expand. In the event that we expand into additional states, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the financial performance experienced in our current markets and could experience losses as a result. We operate in a complex regulatory environment and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. The HR outsourcing and PEO environment is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, taxes, benefits administration, insurance, wage and hour, employment practices and data privacy. As many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of a professional employer organization, assuring compliance with such laws and assessing the financial impact of such compliance can be difficult. For example, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, enacted on February 17, 2009, includes significant modifications of the COBRA continuation coverage rules including an additional period of sixty days for eligible employees to elect to continue their benefit coverage and a subsidy of 65% of the applicable COBRA premium for up to nine months for employees “involuntarily terminated” by their employer between September 1, 2008 and December 31, 2009. At this time it is unclear how these modifications will be applied where a “co-employer” sponsors the benefit plans and has been contractually allocated responsibility for compliance with the COBRA continuation rules. The Company anticipates that it will incur additional costs associated with compliance with these new rules but the amount of such costs and the impact of these new rules on the Company’s business are currently unclear. Because our clients have employees in states throughout the United States, we must also perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret, may conflict and may change over time, and the addition of new services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations were instituted prior to the development of the professional employer organization industry, and therefore can be difficult to interpret or assess and may change over time. As a result of uncertainty and inconsistency in the interpretation and application of many of these laws and regulations, from time to time we have had disagreements with regulatory agencies in various states, some of which have resulted in administrative proceedings between a state agency and us. If we are unable to continue to provide certain contractual obligations, such as the payment of employment taxes on the salaries and wages paid to client employees, due to an adverse determination regarding our regulatory status as an “employer”, our clients may be held jointly and severally liable for such payments. Violation of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute breach of our client contracts and impair our ability to do business in various jurisdictions or in accordance with established processes. In addition, many states in which we operate have enacted laws that require licensing or registration of professional employer organizations, including Florida, our largest market, and Texas, and additional states are considering such legislation. We may not be able to satisfy the licensing requirements or other applicable regulations of any particular state, or we may be unable to renew our licenses in the states in which we currently operate upon expiration of such licenses, which could prevent us from providing services to client employees in a certain state. In addition, many of these states have reciprocal disciplinary arrangements under which disciplinary action in one state can be the basis for disciplinary action in one or more other states. Future changes in or additions to these requirements may require us to modify the manner in which we provide services to our clients, which may increase our costs in providing such services. We are also increasingly affected by legal requirements relating to privacy of information. We anticipate that additional federal and state privacy laws and regulations beyond the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations 18 Table of Contents promulgated thereunder will continue to be enacted and implemented. The scope of any such new laws and regulations may be very broad and entail significant costs for us to be in compliance. If our captive insurance subsidiary is not recognized as an insurance company we may be subject to additional and/or accelerated income tax payments and/or penalties. When delivering our HR outsourcing solution to clients through a co-employment relationship, we are usually responsible for providing workers’ compensation coverage to our clients’ employees. Since 2003, a portion of this coverage is arranged through a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary (the “Captive”). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for income tax purposes with respect to our income tax returns. While we have determined it is more likely than not the Captive qualifies as an insurance company, in the event the taxing authorities were to assert that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company and were such assertion ultimately upheld, we could be required to make additional income tax payments and/or accelerate income tax payments that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. We face direct and overlapping competition from a number of other companies which may affect our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients. In order to acquire new clients, we must first convince potential clients that a HR outsourcing provider is a superior option as compared to their current internal HR solutions. For potential clients that choose to outsource these services, we then face direct competition from a number of providers that also operate on a co-employment platform, such as Administaff, Inc., as well as companies that primarily provide payroll processing services in addition to co-employment services such as Automatic Data Processing Inc. We also face competition from certain information technology outsourcing firms and broad-based outsourcing and consultancy firms that provide or may seek to provide HR outsourcing services in addition to consulting companies that perform individual projects, such as development of HR strategy and information systems. Historically, most of these vendors have focused on discrete processes, but many are now promoting integrated process management offerings that may compete with our offerings. We expect that market experience to date and the predicted growth of the HR outsourcing market will continue to attract and motivate more competitors. Certain of our existing or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients and key product and service suppliers than we do. This may enable them to develop and expand their delivery infrastructure and service offerings more quickly, which could adversely affect our ability to attain new clients. Certain of our existing or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients and key product and service suppliers than we do. This may enable them to develop and expand their delivery infrastructure and service offerings more quickly and: · achieve greater scale and cost efficiencies; adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changing client needs; · take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; establish operations in new markets more rapidly; · devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services; and · adopt more aggressive pricing policies and provide clients with additional benefits at lower overall costs in order to gain market share or in anticipation of future improvements in delivery costs. If our competitive advantages are not compelling or sustainable and we are not able to effectively compete with competitors, then we may not be able to increase or maintain our clients at profitable levels or at all. The market for our services and our revenue growth depends on our ability to use the Internet as a means of delivering HR services and this exposes us to various security risks. We rely on the Internet as a primary mechanism for delivering services to our clients and use public networks to transmit and store extremely confidential information about our clients and their employees. Our target clients may not continue to be receptive to HR services delivered over the Internet because of concerns over transaction security, user privacy, the reliability and quality of Internet service and other reasons. A security breach could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address security breaches, and we cannot be certain that our security measures will be adequate. In addition, emerging or uncertain laws and regulations relating to Internet user 19 Table of Contents privacy, property ownership, consumer protection, intellectual property, export of encryption technology, and libel could impair our existing Internet usage. This could decrease the popularity or impede the expansion of the Internet and decrease demand for our services. If we become subject to the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services, our profitability and growth prospects may be adversely affected. We are dependent upon technology services, and any damage, interruption, security breach or failure in our computer and telecommunications systems could adversely affect our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new clients. Our business could be interrupted and we may lose data as a result of damage to or disruption of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems from natural disasters, floods, fire, power loss, hardware or software malfunctions, penetration by computer hackers, terrorist acts, vandalism, sabotage, computer viruses, vendor performance failures or insolvency, and other causes. Our business involves the storage and transmission of sensitive information about our clients and their employees and any system or equipment failure or security breach we experience could adversely affect our clients’ businesses, and could expose us to a risk of loss of this sensitive information, damage to our goodwill and reputation, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to client data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. The precautions that we have taken to protect ourselves and minimize the impact of such events (such as our disaster recovery plans and encryption of sensitive information) may not be adequate, and we may be unable to recover data used in our operations or prevent unauthorized access to our client and employee data. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose sales and clients. We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology. To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. If our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not timely integrate and update our systems, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be an adverse impact to our business and results of operations. We depend on third-party technology licenses and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, reduced service levels and delayed sales of our products and services. We rely on third-party vendors for software, and if their products are not available, or are inadequate, our business could be seriously harmed. For example, we process payroll for most of our client employees using Oracle’s Human Resources Management System (HRMS) and Payroll processing applications. Our service delivery capability incorporates and relies on Oracle software that we license directly from Oracle. If Oracle or our other software vendors change or fail to maintain a product that we are using or do not permit use of that product by our clients or us, or if our licensing agreements are terminated or not renewed, we could be forced to delay or discontinue our services until substitute technology can be found, licensed and installed. We could also be forced to pay significantly higher licensing fees with respect to such substitute technology. In addition, our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party services and products, and any undetected errors in these products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions, and harm our reputation and sales. Our business depends on the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the data in our technology infrastructure. Our ability to provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to accurately report our financial results, depends on the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the data in our technology infrastructure including our service delivery system. As a result of technology initiatives, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we operate a number of different systems requiring frequent maintenance, expansion, replacement and upgrades. If the information we rely upon to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable, or if such information were to be lost or corrupted in the process of consolidating, upgrading, expanding or replacing all or part of our technology infrastructure, or if we otherwise fail to maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could face damage to our reputation and ability to attract and retain clients, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. In addition, failure to consolidate, upgrade, expand or replace all or part of 20 Table of Contents the components of our technology infrastructure successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our professional services agreement allows clients to terminate their relationship with us upon either 30 or 45 days notice, and as a result, we could lose a significant number of customers in a short period of time. In order to utilize our professional services, each of our clients is required to enter into our professional services agreement, which generally provides for an initial one-year term, subject to termination by our client or us at any time upon either 30 or 45 days prior written notice. Following the initial term, the contract may be renewed, terminated or continued on a month-to-month basis. As a result, a significant number of our clients may terminate their agreement with us at any time. In particular, they may decide to discontinue our services or their relationship with us due to our attempts to increase our services fees or increase our medical or workers’ compensation insurance charges. Clients may also be unwilling to pay for broadened service offerings if additional or increased fees accompany such changes. These termination provisions could cause us to lose a significant number of customers in a short period of time or make it difficult for us to increase our prices, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. As a result of our co-employment relationship with most of our clients and client employees, we may be subject to liabilities as a result of their acts or omissions. We enter into a contractual relationship with each of our clients, whereby the client transfers certain employment-related risks and liabilities to us and retains other risks and liabilities. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of this “co-employment” relationship. Consequently, we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws, including violations of federal and state wage and hour laws, by our clients despite the contractual division of responsibilities between us, even if we do not participate in such violations. This risk is increased with respect to clients serviced by our HR consultants who are located on-site at our clients’ offices and who are designated service representatives of one or two clients because of their greater presence on a client’s premises and potential involvement in client employee relations. In addition, our client employees may also be deemed to be acting as our agents, subjecting us to further liability for the acts or omissions of such client employees. Although our professional services agreement provides that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual indemnification. Any such liability imposed upon us could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments on behalf of our clients, we are exposed to certain credit risks with respect to our clients. Under the terms of our professional services agreement, for clients serviced on a co-employed basis we generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with each of our client’s employee payroll obligations, including the payment of salaries, wages and associated taxes, and, at the client’s option, the responsibility for providing group health, welfare and retirement benefits to each client employee. In this “co-employment” relationship, we directly assume these obligations, and unlike payroll processing service providers, we issue payroll checks to each client employee drawn on our own bank accounts. In several states, we are required to pay wages, payroll taxes and other amounts related to payroll regardless of whether the client timely funds such payments to us. For clients serviced either on a co-employed or non co-employed basis, who meet certain financial underwriting requirements, Gevity may issue payroll to a client’s employees prior to irrevocable receipt of payroll, taxes and associated service fees. If we are unable to collect these payments from our larger clients, there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may make errors and omissions in performing our services, which could subject us to losses and fines and harm our reputation. Our payroll processing and related administrative services are subject to various risks resulting from errors and omissions in filing tax returns covering employment-related taxes, paying tax liabilities with respect to those returns, transmitting funds to benefit plans, billing clients and paying wages to our clients’ employees. Tracking, processing and paying such amounts and administering retirement and other benefit plans is complex. Errors and omissions have occurred in the past and may occur in the future in connection with these services. We and our clients are subject to cash penalties imposed by tax authorities for late filings or underpayment of taxes or required plan contributions. We may also transfer to or withdraw funds from the wrong party in error or transfer or withdraw incorrect amounts and may not be able to correct the error or retrieve the funds. These penalties could, in some cases, be substantial and could harm our business and operating results. Our human resources consulting services also entail the risk of 21 Table of Contents errors and omissions. Additionally, our failure to fulfill our obligations under our professional service agreements could harm our reputation, our relationship with our clients and our ability to gain new clients. If we are determined not to be an “employer” pursuant to applicable ERISA and IRS rules and regulations, we may be subject to additional regulations and liabilities. If it is determined that we are not the “employer” for purposes of ERISA or the Code, we could be subject to liabilities, including penalties, with respect to our cafeteria benefits plan operated under Section 125 of the Code, as amended, for failure to withhold and pay taxes applicable to salary deferral contributions by our client employees. As a result of such a finding, we and our plans may not enjoy, with respect to our client employees, the preemption of state laws provided by ERISA, and we could be subject to additional varying state laws and regulation, as well as to claims based upon state common law. In addition, if it were determined that we are not an “employer” for purposes of IRS rules and regulations we may be unable to either make certain payroll tax payments or take certain tax credits which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Laws and regulations relating to verifying individuals’ eligibility for employment could subject us to significant penalties and compliance costs. Federal law requires employers to verify that all persons employed by them in the United States have established both their identity and their eligibility to accept such work. Employers that knowingly employ unauthorized persons can be subject to significant civil and criminal sanctions. We rely on our clients to verify their employees’ identity and eligibility for employment and the responsibility for such verification is allocated to our clients in the professional services agreement. The treatment of PEOs for such purposes, including whether the PEO, its client, or both might be regarded as an employer of a worksite employee, has not been definitively established. We may be liable for 401(k) testing failures and any such liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our 401(k) plan is structured as a multiple employer plan. Each participating client is considered a participating employer within the plan and is separately tested for compliance with certain participation-related legal requirements (commonly referred to as discrimination testing). Failure of any portion of the plan relating to one participating employer could jeopardize the qualified status of, and our ability to continue to operate the entire plan. Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. Our credit agreement, which is fully secured by liens on substantially all the property and assets of the Company (with agreed upon carveouts and exceptions), restricts us and our subsidiaries from various actions, including the following, in each case subject to various specified exceptions and limits: · incurring liens and debt; · making acquisitions; · repurchasing shares of the Company’s stock; · making capital expenditures; · making investments; · entering into a merger, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or undergoing a change of control; · selling assets; · paying dividends and making other restricted payments; · entering into transactions with affiliates; · entering into agreements that limit the ability of our subsidiaries from paying dividends, debt, loans or entering into other restrictions; · amending the terms of other debt of ours; 22 Table of Contents · entering into sale and leaseback transactions; and · materially modifying our workers compensation arrangements. We are also required to maintain financial covenants regarding leverage, coverage and fixed charges. These restrictions may limit our financial and operating flexibility and, as a result, reduce our ability to grow and execute on our strategic objectives. Our level of compliance with the financial covenants determines the maximum amount of the credit facility available to us. Additionally, if we fail to meet the minimum requirements of the financial covenants, and we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, the lender would have the right to terminate the credit agreement and require us to immediately repay all outstanding amounts. If we are unable to make borrowings under the credit agreement or were required to immediately repay all outstanding amounts, our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to numerous risks. Subject to the Merger Agreement, one important component of our growth strategy is to pursue selective acquisitions. This strategy entails numerous risks, including the following: Integration & Operational Risks. We face risks associated with integrating new organizations, including their management, personnel and clients, into our established business. An inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could cause attrition of acquired personnel and clients. An acquisition may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management while we continue to incur operating expenses to provide the services provided formerly by the acquired company. Financial Risks. We may finance an acquisition with cash, by issuing equity securities (which could be dilutive to existing shareholders) or by incurring debt (which would increase our leverage and interest expense and could impose additional restrictive covenants). We cannot assure you that we will be able to access the capital markets for these transactions, and, even if we were able to do so, we cannot assure you we would be able to obtain commercially reasonable terms for any such financing. Legal Risks. An acquired company may have liabilities that are difficult to assess, for which there are inadequate reserves and that may be significant. For example, employee benefit plans of an acquired company could result in liability due to the plan’s failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Further, there may be acquisition-related disputes, including disputes over earn-outs, indemnities and escrows. Completion Risks. Even if we pursue possible acquisition candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to close on them at attractive prices or at all. As a result, we may expend considerable resources (such as management time and money) on pursuing acquisitions without successfully acquiring any new businesses. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control. As a result, there can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve this component of our growth strategy. These risks could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, these risks could be compounded if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. We are dependent upon key personnel, and the recruitment and retention of key employees may be difficult and expensive. We believe that the successful operation of our business is dependent upon our retention of key personnel including our executive team. In general, the employment of our key personnel may be terminated by either the employee or us at any time, without cause or advance notice, subject to severance obligations under specified circumstances. If any of these individuals were unable or unwilling to continue working for us, we could have difficulty finding a replacement, and our operations and profitability could be adversely affected, which would likely have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, we are not the beneficiary under any life insurance contracts covering any of our key personnel. We also rely heavily upon stock options to supplement compensation for many of our key employees, and if we continue to grant options to these employees, the treatment of options as an expense in response to regulatory requirements may significantly increase our reported costs. If we cannot attract and retain qualified individuals, the quality of our services may deteriorate and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel including HR consultants and business development managers (“BDMs”) who possess the specific skills and experience necessary to identify, acquire and retain clients. Finding and retaining qualified personnel is difficult because of the specific skill set that we require in order for us to adequately operate in the 23 Table of Contents complex HR regulatory environment. We compete for qualified personnel not only with other HR service providers, but also with internal HR departments. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel including HR consultants and BDMs could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels, restructuring of our compensation system, or competition from our competitors. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Florida law may limit the ability of our shareholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company, which may not be in your best interests. There are provisions in our articles of incorporation that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our shareholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. In addition, we have entered into a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” that may delay or prevent a change of control. Additionally, we are subject to statutory “anti-takeover” provisions under Florida law. Section 607.0901 of the Florida Business Corporation Act (the “FBCA”) imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 10% or more of our outstanding voting shares and requires approval by the corporation’s disinterested directors or a supermajority of uninterested shareholders for certain business combinations and corporate transactions with the interested shareholder or any entity or individual controlled by the interested shareholder, unless certain statutory exemptions apply. Section 607.0902 of the FBCA eliminates the voting rights of common stock acquired by a party who, by such acquisition, controls at least 20% of all voting rights of the corporation’s issued and outstanding stock. Our headquarters, many of our clients’ headquarters, and the facilities of many of the third parties on which we rely to provide us and our clients with critical services are located in an area of the United States that is susceptible to hurricane damage and other natural disasters. Our Florida facilities, including our principal executive offices and field support offices, as well as certain of our vendors and a significant number of our clients are located in an area prone to natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and other adverse weather conditions. A hurricane or other disaster could significantly disrupt our services, particularly if it results in prolonged disruptions to the Internet and telecommunications services on which we heavily rely. The precautions that we have taken to protect ourselves and minimize the impact of such events (such as our disaster recovery plans) may not be adequate, and we may lose, not be able to access, or be unable to recover data, hardware, software and other systems used in our operations. In addition, our regional clients could also suffer the effects of a significant natural disaster and not be able to fulfill their contractual requirements pursuant to the terms of our professional services agreement. Our business could be materially and adversely affected should our ability to provide services and products, or our ability to collect our service fees, be impacted by such an event. The pending merger transaction, pursuant to which TriNet would acquire all of our outstanding common stock, may be delayed or may not close. We have announced that the pending transaction with TriNet is expected to close in the second quarter of 2009. The consummation of the Merger is subject to various customary conditions, including Gevity shareholder approval, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, and the receipt of certain other state regulatory approvals. The timing of such events and the completion of the Merger are subject to factors beyond our control. In addition, while our board of directors has recommended that shareholders approve the transaction, we cannot predict the outcome of the shareholder vote. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 