Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. Our electric and gas operations are highly regulated, and any adverse regulatory changes could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and its financial position. NSTAR’s electric and gas operations, including the rates charged, are regulated by the FERC and the MDTE. In addition, NSTAR’s accounting policies are prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), the FERC and the MDTE. Adverse regulatory changes could have a significant impact on results of operations and financial condition. Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our regulated electricity and gas businesses. Under Massachusetts law, no other entity may provide electric or gas delivery service to retail customers within NSTAR’s service territory without the written consent of NSTAR Electric and/or NSTAR Gas. Although not a 9 Table of Contents trend, NSTAR’s operating utility companies could be exposed to municipalization risk, whereby a municipality could acquire the electric or gas delivery assets located in that city or town and take over the customer delivery service, thereby reducing NSTAR’s revenues. Any such action would require numerous legal and regulatory consents and approvals. In addition, NSTAR expects that any municipalization would require that NSTAR be compensated for its assets assumed. Changes in environmental laws and regulations affecting our business could increase our costs or curtail our activities. NSTAR and its subsidiaries are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations that are currently in effect, including those related to the handling, disposal, and treatment of hazardous materials. Changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us, all of which could have an adverse impact on NSTAR’s results of operations. The Company may be required to conduct environmental remediation activities for power generating sites and other potentially unidentified sites. NSTAR is subject to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving environmental remediation activities for power generating sites previously owned and other potentially unidentified sites. NSTAR divested all of its generating assets over the past 10 years under terms which generally require the buyer to assume all responsibility for past and present environmental harm. Based on NSTAR’s current assessment of its environmental responsibilities, existing legal requirements and regulatory policies, NSTAR does not believe that its known environmental remediation responsibilities will have a material adverse effect on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, discovery of currently unknown conditions at existing sites, identification of additional contaminated sites or changes in environmental regulation, could have a material adverse impact on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. NSTAR is subject to operational risk that could cause us to incur substantial costs and liabilities. Our business, which involves the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity that is used as an energy source by our customers, is subject to various operational risks, including incidents that expose the Company to potential claims for property damages or personal injuries beyond the scope of NSTAR’s insurance coverage, and equipment failures that could result in performance below assumed levels. For example, operational performance below established target benchmark levels could cause NSTAR to incur penalties imposed by the MDTE, up to a maximum of two percent of transmission and distribution revenues, under applicable Service Quality Indicators. Increases in interest rates due to financial market conditions or changes in our credit ratings, could have an adverse impact on our access to capital markets at favorable rates, or at all, and could otherwise increase our costs of doing business. NSTAR frequently accesses the capital markets to finance its working capital requirements, capital expenditures and to meet its long-term debt maturity obligations. Increased interest rates, or adverse changes in our credit ratings, would increase our cost of borrowing and other costs that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow and ultimately have an adverse impact on the market price of our common shares. In addition, an adverse change in our credit ratings could, in addition to increasing our borrowing costs, trigger requirements that we obtain additional security for performance, such as a letter of credit, related to our energy procurement agreements. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a further discussion. Our electric and gas businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and have seasonal variations. In addition, severe-storm related disasters could adversely affect the Company. Sales of electricity and gas to residential and commercial customers are influenced by temperature fluctuations. Significant fluctuations in heating or cooling degree days could have a material impact on unit sales for any given period. In addition, extremely severe storms, such as hurricanes and ice storms, could cause damage to our 10 Table of Contents facilities which may require additional costs to repair and have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. To the extent possible, NSTAR’s rate regulated subsidiaries would seek recovery of these costs through the regulatory process. Economic downturn, and increased costs of energy supply, could adversely affect energy consumption and could adversely affect our results of operation. Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation measures. These conditions could adversely impact the level of energy sales and result in less demand for energy delivery. A recession or a prolonged lag of a subsequent recovery could have an adverse effect on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 