ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General business, economic, and market conditions may significantly affect our earnings Our business is subject to various business and economic conditions, including competition from other financial institutions and other mortgage banking companies, movements in short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in the capital markets and the strength of the United States and local economies. If any of these conditions worsen, our business and net income could be adversely affected. For example, rising interest rates could decrease the demand for residential mortgage loans; decrease the volume of residential mortgage loans we can originate or purchase; and/or increase the level of competition for making or purchasing such loans. Unfavorable business or economic conditions could adversely affect household incomes and increase the number of residential mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults; and/or increase the administrative costs in evaluating and processing mortgage loan applications. In addition, our business and net income are significantly affected by market conditions such as the level of consumer confidence, real estate values and the investment returns expected by the capital markets. A decrease in the level of consumer confidence could decrease home purchases and the demand for residential mortgage loans. A decrease in real estate values could decrease the value of the collateral supporting our loan portfolios. Changes in expected returns by the capital markets with respect to mortgage loans could make mortgage loans of the types we originate or purchase less attractive to investors. A failure to satisfy regulatory capital requirements may significantly affect our business Were the OTS to downgrade the Bank’s regulatory capital requirement categorization from “well capitalized” to “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized,” federal banking regulators would be required to take some mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions. The severity of the action would depend upon the capital category in which the Bank is placed. At undercapitalized, regulatory intervention may include the Bank’s adoption of a capital restoration plan, a guarantee of the plan by NetBank, Inc. and limitations on our ability to grow our assets and to enter into new, or expand our, lines of business. At significantly or critically undercapitalized, further material restrictions may be imposed, including restrictions on the rate of interest we may pay on accounts, dismissal of management and (in critically undercapitalized situations) appointment of a receiver or conservator. Critically undercapitalized institutions generally may not, beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. All but well-capitalized institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Under The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act of 1991 (the “FDIA”) and OTS regulations, a federal savings bank which is not categorized as well capitalized or adequately-capitalized is restricted from making capital distributions which include cash dividends, stock redemptions or repurchases, cash-out mergers, interest payments on certain convertible debt and other transactions charged to the capital account of a federal savings bank. A federal savings bank that is categorized as adequately capitalized may be subject to regulatory requirements and limitations that may include, but are not limited to, limitations on entering into new, or expanding, lines of business and prohibition from accepting brokered deposits without regulatory approval. At December 31, 2005, the Bank met the criteria to be classified as “well capitalized.” See the discussion under the heading “Supervision and Regulation—Bank Regulation—Capital Requirements” and “—Prompt Corrective 35 Action” in Item 1. “Business” of this report for information on the regulatory capital requirements imposed by the OTS and the system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized financial institutions under the FDIA. Deficiencies in regulated areas other than capital requirements may significantly affect our business and earnings We can be subject to formal and informal regulatory enforcement actions for deficiencies in areas other than failure to meet capital requirements, including, but not limited to, deficiencies in asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, compliance and risk management. Regulatory enforcement action may result in limitations on the growth of our business, a prohibition on our entering into new lines of business, our ability to offer brokered deposit products as well as limitations on deposit rates and other consequences. These consequences may independently, or together with the costs of complying with the enforcement action, significantly affect our business and earnings. See the discussion under the heading “Supervision and Regulation—Other Potential Regulatory Actions” in Item 1. “Business” included in this report for more information. Interest rate volatility may significantly affect our earnings and cash flows Our principal businesses are retail banking and the origination and purchase of mortgage loans. These businesses are funded by customer deposits and, to the extent necessary, other borrowed funds. Consequently, a significant portion of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and fluctuations in interest rates will affect our future net interest income and cash flows. Changes in long-term interest rates that do not correlate to changes in short-term interest rates can cause disproportionate changes in the value of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities or the shrinkage or widening of the spread we expect to earn by holding interest-earning assets, such as mortgage loans. A decrease in this spread would have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flows. See the discussion under the heading “Future Outlook—Flat Treasury Yield Curve” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this report for further information. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect our mortgage origination revenue During periods of declining interest rates, we typically experience an increase in loan originations because of increased home purchases and, particularly, increased refinancing activity. Increases in interest rates typically adversely affect refinancing activity, which has an adverse effect on our origination revenue. Interest rate volatility may significantly affect our mortgage business operations and our earnings At any given time, we are committed to sell substantially all of our agency-eligible mortgage loans that are closed and a percentage of those that are not yet closed but for which interest rates have been established (“rate locks”). A change in interest rates from the time of the rate lock until we sell the loan will cause a gain or loss on our sales of the applicable mortgage loans. To manage the interest rate risk associated with rate locks, we continuously project the percentage of the rate locks we expect to close and, on the basis of such projections, enter into forward sales commitments to sell such loans. To reduce the effect of such interest rate volatility, we employ a variety of techniques, currently consisting of a combination of mandatory forward sales commitments for mortgage-backed securities and put and call option contracts on U.S. Treasury securities. 36 If interest rates make an unanticipated change, the actual percentage of rate locks that close may differ from the percentage we projected. A sudden increase in interest rates can cause a higher percentage of rate locks to close than we projected. In this case, we may not have made sufficient forward sales commitments to sell these additional loans and consequently may incur significant losses upon their sale at current market prices. Likewise, if a lower percentage of rate locks close than we projected, due to a sudden decrease in interest rates or otherwise, we may have committed to sell more than actually close and, as a result, may incur significant losses in fulfilling these commitments. These losses will adversely impact our mortgage business operations and our net income. The greater the unanticipated volatility in interest rates, the greater the adverse effect. Interest rate volatility may significantly affect the value of our mortgage servicing rights The value of our mortgage servicing portfolio may be adversely affected if mortgage interest rates decline and loan refinances and prepayments increase. In periods of declining interest rates, the economic advantages to borrowers of refinancing their mortgage loans become greater. Increases in the rate of mortgage loan prepayments reduce the period during which we receive servicing income from such loans. We capitalize the cost of the acquisition of servicing rights from third parties and capitalize a value for the servicing rights on loans that we originate. The value of servicing rights is based upon the net present value of estimated future cash flows. If the rate of prepayment of the related loans exceeds the rate we have assumed, due to a significant reduction in interest rates or otherwise, the value of our servicing portfolio will decrease and accelerated amortization of servicing rights or recognition of an impairment provision may become necessary, thereby decreasing net income. Adverse decisions in litigation involving the mortgage banking industry could have a negative impact to our earnings In recent years, the mortgage banking industry has been subject to class action lawsuits that allege violations of federal and state laws and regulations, including the propriety of collecting and paying various fees and charges and the calculation of escrow amounts. Class action lawsuits have been commenced against various mortgage banking companies, including the Company, alleging, inter alia, that the payment of certain fees to mortgage brokers violates the anti-kickback provisions of RESPA. Recent interpretations by HUD together with several subsequent appellate court decisions have indicated that class actions regarding a lender’s compensation to brokers are inappropriate for resolution of the issue. So far, all of the cases have been resolved favorably for the mortgage banking industry, but if any of these cases are resolved against the lenders, it may cause an industry-wide change in the way independent mortgage brokers are compensated. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on the Company and the entire mortgage lending industry. The Company’s broker compensation and table-funded correspondent purchase programs permit such payments. Although the Company believes these programs comply with all applicable laws and are consistent with long-standing industry practice and regulatory interpretations, in the future new regulatory interpretations or judicial decisions may require the Company to change its broker compensation and table-funded correspondent purchase practices. Class action lawsuits may continue to be filed in the future against the mortgage banking industry generally. New legislation regarding escrow funds could have a negative impact to our earnings and cash flows. Legislation regarding the interest rates we pay on escrowed funds would, if enacted, negatively impact our earnings and cash flow Certain states require that interest be paid to mortgagors on escrow funds deposited by them to cover mortgage-related payments such as property taxes and insurance premiums. Federal legislation has in the past been introduced that would, if enacted, revise current escrow regulations and establish a uniform interest payment requirement in all states. If such federal legislation were enacted or if additional states 37 enact legislation relating to payment of, or increases in the rate of interest on escrow balances, or if such legislation were retroactively applied to loans in the Company’s servicing portfolio, the Company’s earnings would be adversely affected. An increase in delinquencies and defaults of mortgage loans will adversely impact our earnings Our earnings may be adversely impacted by economic downturns because, during such periods, the frequency of loan delinquencies and defaults tends to increase. If loan delinquencies and defaults increase, our mortgage business operations will experience losses on loans held in our portfolio for long-term investment and it will increase our cost to service the loans in our servicing portfolio. Also, we are generally at risk for delinquencies and defaults of newly originated or purchased loans that we hold for sale. An increase in delinquencies and defaults of mortgage loans will also adversely impact our loan servicing operations. Under certain types of servicing contracts, particularly contracts to service pooled or securitized loans, we must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of the loan, even when loan payments are delinquent. Also, to protect their lien on mortgaged property, owners of mortgage loans usually require us to advance mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are unavailable. A servicer is generally reimbursed for such advances by the mortgage loan owner or from liquidation proceeds. However, prior to the liquidation of a loan, we must generally bear the cost of funds advanced and the increased costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, we must generally forego servicing income from the time such loan becomes delinquent until it is foreclosed upon or brought current. Liabilities under our representations and warranties may adversely affect our earnings We make representations and warranties in the ordinary course of business to purchasers and insurers of our mortgage loans and the purchasers of our mortgage servicing rights regarding compliance with laws, regulations and program standards and as to accuracy of information. We may become liable for certain damages or may be required to repurchase a loan if there has been a breach of representations or warranties. For example, for certain loan sale agreements, we are liable to the purchaser of the loans if an underlying borrower defaults on the first payments due or if the borrower prepays the loan shortly after sale. While we estimate our liability with respect to such representations and warranties based upon a vintage analysis of repurchases of loans by year of production, we are unable to calculate the amount of loans still outstanding for which representations and warranties relate since we no longer service the vast majority of loans we sold in prior years. Representation and warranty repurchase liabilities may have a significant affect on our earnings, should our estimates of such liabilities be less than actual repurchase obligations that arise. See note 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional details regarding our liabilities under representations and warranties, including past repurchase and current reserve information. We generally receive similar representations and warranties from the correspondents from whom we purchase loans. However, in the event of breaches of such representations and warranties, we are subject to the risk that a correspondent may not have the financial capacity to repurchase loans when called upon to do so by us or otherwise may not respond to our demands. We estimate our potential liability with respect to such representations and warranties based upon a vintage analysis of repurchases of loans by year of production. However, since we no longer service the vast majority of loans and servicing sold in prior years, we are unable to calculate the amount of loans still outstanding for which such representations and warranties relate. For example, increases or decreases in prepayments of loans and servicing previously sold can have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the amount of representation and warranty claims ultimately asserted. Therefore, there is no assurance that future claims for representations and 38 warranties will be similar to our experience as depicted in our vintage analysis. See note 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional details regarding our liabilities under representations and warranties, including the past repurchase and current reserve information. We could incur substantial costs if we are required to remediate environmental matters relating to certain properties In the course of its business, through the foreclosure process, we may acquire, and may acquire in the future, properties securing loans that are in default. Although we lend to owners of residential properties, there is a risk that we could be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at such properties after its acquisition and might be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation or cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination and such costs could be substantial. To date, we have not been required to perform any investigation or cleanup activities of any material nature, nor have we been subject to any environmental claims. No assurance can be given, however, that this will remain the case in the future. If we are required to incur substantial remediation costs, our earnings and cash flows would be adversely affected. Loss of relationships with independent mortgage brokers and mortgage bankers may adversely effect our mortgage volume and, thus, our revenues and earnings We originate through, or purchase from, independent mortgage bankers, including smaller mortgage companies and commercial banks, and, to a lesser extent, upon independent mortgage brokers, a significant amount of mortgage loans. Substantially all of the independent mortgage brokers and mortgage bankers with whom we do business also deal with other loan originators and under no contractual or other obligation to continue to deal with us. Competition for the business of independent mortgage bankers and mortgage brokers is primarily based upon pricing, servicing, loan fees and costs. As a result of competition, our operating results and net income are susceptible to fluctuations in the volume and cost of broker and mortgage banker-sourced loans. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain In preparing our financial statements, management is required to make numerous estimates based on available information that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and disclosures as of the balance sheet date and revenues and expenses for the related periods. Such estimates relate principally to our reserves for foreclosure losses and repurchased loans, our reserve for representation and warranty claims for previous sales of loans and mortgage servicing rights, and our allowances for credit losses on our portfolios of loan and lease receivables. Additionally, estimates concerning the fair values of mortgage loans held for sale, servicing rights, servicing hedges and our other hedging instruments are all relevant to ensuring that mortgage loans are carried at the lower of cost or market, and that potential impairments of servicing rights are recognized as and if required. Because of the inherent uncertainties associated with any estimation process and due to possible future changes in market and economic conditions that will affect fair values, it is possible that actual future results in realization of the underlying assets and liabilities could differ significantly from the amounts reflected as of the balance sheet date. See the heading “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this report for more information. Cessation of, or a change in our eligibility with respect to, programs of housing-related government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises could aversely affect our business Our ability to generate revenue through sales of mortgage-backed securities is largely dependent upon the continuation of programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, which facilitate 39 the issuance of such securities, as well as our continued eligibility to participate in such programs. We anticipate that we will continue to remain eligible to participate in such programs, but any significant impairment of our eligibility would materially adversely affect our operations. A change in eligibility of mortgage loan products available for programs of housing-related government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises could adversely affect our business and earnings The mortgage loan products eligible for programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae may be changed from time to time. Because the profitability of specific types of mortgage loan products may vary depending on a number of factors, including the administrative costs of originating or purchasing such types of mortgage loans, a change in the eligibility of mortgage loan products for such programs may adversely affect our operations and earnings. The financial services industry is highly competitive We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Competition for mortgage loans comes primarily from large commercial banks and savings institutions. Many of our competitors have lower cost structures and others are less reliant on the secondary mortgage market for funding due to their greater portfolio lending capacity. We face competition in such areas as mortgage product offerings, rates and fees, and customer service, both at the retail and institutional level. In addition, technological advances and heightened e-commerce activities have increased consumers’ accessibility to products and services generally. This has intensified competition among banking as well as nonbanking companies in offering financial products and services, with or without the need for a physical presence. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, net income and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers and communities, as a diversified financial services company with a relatively high industry profile, this risk will always be present in our organization. Changes in regulation of banking or mortgage banking could adversely affect our business We are heavily regulated by banking and mortgage lending laws at the federal, state and local levels, and proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced. We are subject to many other federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect our business, including those regarding taxation and privacy. Congress and state legislatures, as well as federal and state regulatory agencies, review such laws, regulations and policies and periodically propose changes that could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could, for example, limit the types of financial services and products we offer, or limit our liability or increase our cost to offer such services and products. It is possible that legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be implemented that would have an adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with such laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our earnings. 40 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 