risk factors described in this Report on Form 10-K; (ii) a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; (iii) changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; (iv) general conditions in our customers’ industries; (v) general conditions in the securities markets; (vi) our announcements of significant contracts, milestones, acquisitions; (vii) our relationship with other companies; (viii) our investors’ view of the sectors and markets in which we operate; and (ix) additions or departures of key personnel. Some companies that have volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to security class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our existing infrastructure may become strained, and we may be unable to increase revenue growth. The growth that we have experienced, and in the future may experience, may provide challenges to our organization, requiring us to expand our personnel and our operations. Future growth may strain our infrastructure, operations and other managerial and operating resources. If our business resources become strained, our earnings may be adversely affected and we may be unable to increase revenue growth. Our earnings have previously been negatively impacted by goodwill impairment charges. Earnings for future periods may be further affected by additional impairment charges. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount paid for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business acquired. In 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, which requires that all business combinations be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and that certain intangible assets acquired in a business combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. Also in 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 142, which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. We perform an annual goodwill impairment review in the fourth quarter of every fiscal year. Additionally, we perform a goodwill impairment review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. At some future date we may determine that an additional significant impairment has occurred in the value of our unamortized intangible assets or fixed assets, which could require us to write off an additional portion of our assets and could adversely affect our financial condition or our reported results of operations. 14 Failure or circumvention of our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting could seriously harm our business. We plan to continue to maintain and strengthen internal controls and procedures to enhance the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure of our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our charter contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may inhibit or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, one or more series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights (including preferences over the common stock respecting dividends and distributions and voting rights) as the Board of Directors may determine. The issuance of this “blank-check” preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Additionally, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the Board of Directors. Failure to successfully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on a timely basis could seriously harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and also requires our independent registered public accountants to attest to this report. Although we have historically been able to successfully comply with Section 404, in the future, we may not be successful in complying with Section 404 on a timely basis. The failure to comply with Section 404 could harm our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 