ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common shares involves risks. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we 11 may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In such a case, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business If the value of real estate in our primary market areas were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2005, approximately 89.4% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings could be adversely affected. We are subject to the local economies where we operate, and unfavorable economic conditions in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth depends upon the growth in population, income levels and deposits in our primary market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not grow. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in our primary market areas is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. See “Item 1 Business.” Further, because of our geographic concentrations, a decline in the local economic conditions of any of our primary market areas may have a greater effect on our earnings than on the earnings larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. Various factors, such as poor economic conditions, changes in interest rates, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we must expand our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions, and we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources, lending limits and operating histories than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. We believe we have the ability to compete effectively with our competitors by emphasizing customer service, and local decision-making, to establish long-term customer relationships and build customer loyalty with products and services designed to address the specific needs of our customers. 12 The factors affecting competition include banking and financial services provided, customer service and responsiveness, customer convenience and office location. We believe that we will continue to compete successfully in the communities in which we operate and that our competitive strengths include our reputation for developing and retaining banking relationships, responsiveness to customer needs and individualized customer service, and skilled, knowledgeable associates. Our customers and potential customers choose to bank with WestStar to take advantage of this individualized attention while also receiving products and services at competitive prices. Further, we believe that the community commitment and involvement of our associates and our commitment to providing quality financial services are factors that should allow us to continue to maintain and improve our competitive position. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of any of our senior management team and are unable to recruit or retain a suitable replacement. We believe that our success to date and our prospects for future success depend significantly on the efforts of our management team. We do not have employment agreements with these officers or with any of our employees. Therefore, they are free to terminate their employment with us at any time, and we could have difficulty replacing these officers with equally competent persons who are experienced in the specialized aspects of our business. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business. We face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions and may continue to engage in de novo branch expansion in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners may negatively affect our business; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices and the delays between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion may negatively affect our business; • we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; • we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; • we may introduce new products and services into our business with which we have no prior experience; and • we may incur an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and experience adverse, short-term effects on our results of operations. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate operations after an acquisition without encountering difficulties including, without limitation: • the loss of key employees and customers; and • the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Successful integration of our operations with another entity’s will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. If we have difficulties with an integration, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from any particular acquisition or merger. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to such integration. 13 Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or enter new markets successfully, and such expansion could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our expansion plans may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available only on unfavorable terms that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As a result, we may from time to time need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Alternatively, we may be able to raise capital only by issuing debt on unfavorable terms to us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Improper functioning of our information technology systems could have an adverse impact on our operations. We rely heavily on our information technology systems, including the systems of outside service providers. If our internal systems or external technological sources were to fail or there is a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our reputation and results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as money market accounts, savings and time deposits. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Even if rates remain constant, a decrease in the percentage of our deposit base consisting of non-interest-bearing deposits could adversely affect our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, any significant increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to request fewer refinancings and purchase money mortgage originations. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Our underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 14 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. If we expand into new markets, our determination of the size of the allowance for loan losses could be inaccurate due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was $4.5 million, or 0.92% of total loans, as of December 31, 2005. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize future loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Our bank subsidiary, WestStar, is primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. Our compliance with Federal Reserve regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ National Market that apply to us have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations are affected by the policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. See “Item 1 Business—Supervision and Regulation.” Risks Related to Our Common Shares The trading volume in our common shares has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares in the public market could depress the price of our common shares and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common shares are listed to trade on the NASDAQ National Market, but are thinly traded. Thinly traded shares can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common shares will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high-level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to operating performance. 15 We cannot predict what effect future sales of our common shares in the market, or the availability of our common shares for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common shares. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the market, or the potential for large amounts of market sales, would not cause the price of our common shares to decline or impair our ability to raise capital. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common shares and can influence shareholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 47% of our outstanding common shares as of February 28, 2006. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. Our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from our banking subsidiary, WestStar, which is subject to regulatory limits. We are a bank holding company and our operations are conducted by our banking subsidiary, WestStar. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of dividends from our banking subsidiary. Dividend payments from our banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net income and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of our banking subsidiary to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that our banking subsidiary will be able to pay dividends in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Our failure to pay dividends on our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may be deemed to have the effect of making an acquisition of control of our company more difficult when attempted in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of such stock could also be used, under certain circumstances, as a method to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Although we do not currently intend to issue any shares of preferred stock, we may issue such shares in the future. Our articles of incorporation also provide that the Board of Directors will be divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms and that a director may only be removed by the shareholders prior to the expiration of a term for cause. These provisions could enable a minority of our shareholders to prevent the removal of a director sought to be removed by a majority of the shareholders and may tend to enhance management’s ability to retain control over our affairs and to preserve the director’s present position on the board. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to non-accelerated filers. 