ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other related laws provide a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. This Form 10-K, our Annual Report to Stockholders, any Form 10-Q or Form 8-K of ours, or any other oral or written statements made by us or on our behalf, may include forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of such terms and phrases as “intend,” “goal,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “projections,” “plans,” “anticipate,” “should,” “designed to,” “foreseeable future,” “believe,” “confident,” “think,” “scheduled,” “outlook,” “guidance” and similar expressions. This list of indicative terms and phrases is not intended to be all-inclusive. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they were made. We are not undertaking any duty or obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date of this Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (a) the general economic, political and competitive conditions in the markets where we operate; (b) changes in capital availability or costs, such as changes in interest rates, security ratings and market perceptions of the businesses in which we operate; (c) changes in the regulatory framework governing business generally, and the telecommunication services and equipment industry in particular, in the U.S. and other countries; (d) changes in authoritative generally accepted accounting principles or policies from such standard-setting bodies as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); (e) the impact of corporate governance, accounting and securities law reforms by the United States Congress, the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange; (f) natural and man-made catastrophes; and (g) the factors set forth below. Business Risks A substantial portion of our business is derived from a limited number of key customers or distributors. We derived 25% of our 2009 consolidated net sales from our top three customers or distributors. Our largest distributor, Anixter International Inc and its affiliates, accounted for 11% of our 2009 consolidated net sales. The concentration of our net sales among these key customers or distributors subjects us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability, including, without limitation: • lower sales resulting from the loss of one or more of our key customers or distributors; • renegotiations of agreements with key customers or distributors resulting in materially less favorable terms; 12 Table of Contents • financial difficulties experienced by one or more of our key customers or distributors resulting in reduced purchases of our products and/or uncollectible accounts receivable balances; • reductions in inventory levels held by distributors and original equipment manufacturers which may be unrelated to purchasing trends by the ultimate customer; • consolidations in the telecommunications or cable television industries resulting in delays in purchasing decisions or reduced purchases by the merged businesses; • new or proposed laws or regulations affecting the telecommunications or cable television industries resulting in reduced capital spending; • increases in the cost of borrowing or capital and/or reductions in the amount of debt or equity capital available to the telecommunications or cable television industries resulting in reduced capital spending; and • changes in the technology deployed by telecommunication customers resulting in lower sales of our products. We face competitive pressures with respect to all of our major products. In each of our major product groups, we compete with a substantial number of foreign and domestic companies, some of which have greater resources (financial or otherwise) or lower operating costs than we have. Existing competitors’ actions, such as price reductions or introduction of new innovative products, and the use of Internet auctions by customers or competitors may have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. In addition, the rapid technological changes occurring in the telecommunications industry could lead to the entry of new competitors. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Our dependence on commodities subjects us to price fluctuations and potential availability constraints which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our profitability may be materially affected by changes in the market price and availability of certain raw materials, most of which are linked to the commodity markets. The principal raw materials we purchase are rods, tapes, sheets, wires, tubes and hardware made of copper, steel, aluminum or brass; plastics and other polymers; and optical fiber. Fabricated copper, steel and aluminum are used in the production of coaxial and twisted pair cables and polymers are used to insulate and protect cables. Prices for copper, steel, aluminum, fluoropolymers and certain other polymers, derived from oil and natural gas, have experienced significant volatility as a result of changes in the levels of global demand, supply disruptions and other factors. As a result, we have adjusted our prices for certain products and may have to adjust prices again in the future. Delays in implementing price increases or a failure to achieve market acceptance of future price increases could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In an environment of falling commodities prices, we may be unable to sell higher-cost inventory before implementing price decreases, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for certain raw materials and components. For certain of our raw material and component purchases, including certain polymers, copper rod, copper and aluminum tapes, fine aluminum wire, steel wire, optical fiber, circuit boards and other electronic components, we are dependent on key suppliers. 13 Table of Contents Our key suppliers could experience production, operational or financial difficulties, or there may be global shortages of the raw materials or components we use, and our inability to find sources of supply on reasonable terms could materially adversely affect our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective way. If contract manufacturers that we rely on encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain products or key components of products. If we are unable to arrange for sufficient production capacity among our contract manufacturers or if our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, which could be material. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate technological changes and develop, implement and market product innovations. Many of our markets are characterized by advances in information processing and communications capabilities that require increased transmission speeds and greater capacity, or “bandwidth,” for carrying information. These advances require ongoing improvements in the capabilities of power amplifiers, filters, antennas, cabinets, cable and related products. There are various complementary and competitive wireless technologies that could be a potential substitute for some of the communications products we sell. A significant technological breakthrough or significant decrease in the cost of deploying these wireless technologies could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Fiber optic technology presents a potential substitute for some of the communications cable products we sell. A significant decrease in the cost of deploying fiber optic systems could make these systems superior on a price/performance basis to copper or aluminum systems and have a material adverse effect on our business. The failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-competitive basis or the inability to continue to market existing products on a cost-competitive basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, sales of new products may replace sales of some of our existing products, mitigating the benefits of new product introductions and possibly resulting in excess levels of inventory. Our ability to reliably forecast quarterly revenue is dependent on accurately projecting the inflow of orders during the quarter. The revenue recognized during a quarter is highly dependent on the volume of orders received during the quarter. If the level of orders received during a quarter is materially less than anticipated, our revenue could be materially lower than forecasted. Operating earnings and net income could therefore differ materially from our earnings guidance. If our integrated global manufacturing operations suffer production or shipping delays, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We internally produce, both domestically and internationally, a significant portion of certain components used in our finished products. Disruption of our ability to produce at or distribute from these facilities due to failure of our manufacturing infrastructure, fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism, shipping interruptions or some other catastrophic event could materially adversely affect our ability to manufacture products at our other manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective and timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents If we encounter capacity constraints with respect to our internal facilities and/or existing or new contract manufacturers, it could have an adverse impact on our business. If we do not have sufficient production capacity, either through our internal facilities and/or through independent contract manufacturers, to meet customer demand for our products, we may experience lost sales opportunities and customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing; inventory control; purchasing and supply chain management; human resources; and financial reporting. We have initiated a project to upgrade all of our ERP systems. If we are unable to effectively manage this upgrade or adequately maintain our existing systems to support our business requirements, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, or our ability to timely and accurately report such results. If our products experience performance issues, our business will suffer. Our business depends on delivering products of consistently high quality. To this end, our products are-tested for quality both by us and our customers. Nevertheless, many of our products are highly complex and testing procedures used by us and our customers are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. For various reasons (including, among others, the occurrence of performance problems unforeseeable in testing), our products (including components and raw materials purchased from our suppliers and completed goods purchased for resale) may fail to perform as expected. Performance issues could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. We have experienced such performance issues in the past and remain exposed to such performance issues. In some cases, recall of some or all affected products, product redesigns or additional capital expenditures may be required to correct a defect. In addition, we generally offer warranties on most products, the terms and conditions of which depend upon the product subject to the warranty. In some cases, we indemnify our customers against damages or losses that might arise from certain claims relating to our products. Future claims may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Any significant or systemic product failure could also result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as reputational damage. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees. Our business depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. Competition for skilled personnel and highly qualified managers in the telecommunications industry is intense. Difficulties in obtaining or retaining employees with the necessary management, technical and financial skills needed to achieve our business objectives may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our significant international operations expose us to economic, political and other risks. We have significant international sales, manufacturing and distribution operations. We have major international manufacturing facilities in China, India, Brazil, Ireland, Mexico, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, and Germany. For the year ended December 31, 2009, international sales represented approximately 49% of our consolidated net sales. Our international sales, manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to the risks inherent in operating abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to currency exchange rates; economic and political destabilization; restrictive actions by foreign governments; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; foreign tax laws, including the ability to recover amounts paid as value-added taxes; potential restrictions on the repatriation of cash; reduced protection of intellectual property; longer customer payment cycles; compliance with local laws and regulations; armed conflict; terrorism; shipping interruptions; and major health concerns (such as infectious diseases). 15 Table of Contents In addition, foreign currency rates in many of the countries in which we operate have at times been extremely volatile and unpredictable. We may choose not to hedge or determine that we are unable to effectively hedge the risks associated with this volatility. In such cases, we may experience declines in revenue and adverse impacts on earnings and such changes could be material. We may not fully realize anticipated benefits from past or future acquisitions or equity investments. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of our past or future acquisitions and equity investments, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. There are significant challenges to integrating an acquired operation into our business, including, but not limited to: • successfully managing the operations, manufacturing facilities and technology; • integrating the sales organizations and maintaining and increasing the customer base; • retaining key employees, suppliers and distributors; • integrating management information, inventory, accounting and research and development activities; and • addressing operating losses related to individual facilities or product lines. Difficulties may be encountered in the realignment of manufacturing capacity and capabilities among our global manufacturing facilities that could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands for our products. We periodically realign manufacturing capacity among our global facilities in order to reduce costs by improving manufacturing efficiency and to strengthen our long-term competitive position. The implementation of these initiatives may include significant shifts of production capacity among facilities. There are significant risks inherent in the implementation of these initiatives, including, but not limited to, failing to ensure that: there is adequate inventory on hand or production capacity to meet customer demand while capacity is being shifted among facilities; there is no decrease in product quality as a result of shifting capacity; adequate raw material and other service providers are available to meet the needs at the new production locations; equipment can be successfully removed, transported and re-installed; and adequate supervisory, production and support personnel are available to accommodate the shifted production. In the event that manufacturing realignment initiatives are not successfully implemented, we could experience lost future sales and increased operating costs as well as customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may need to undertake additional restructuring actions in the future. We have previously recognized restructuring charges in response to slowdowns in demand for our products and in conjunction with implementation of initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiency of our operations. As a result of changes in business conditions and other developments, we may need to initiate additional restructuring actions that could result in workforce reductions and restructuring charges, which could be material. 16 Table of Contents Financial Risks Failure to maintain compliance with our debt covenants could result in an event of default, potentially resulting in materially adverse consequences to our business. Under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities, we are subject to two primary financial covenants: an interest coverage ratio for the preceding twelve months, which is tested at the end of each fiscal quarter, and a consolidated leverage ratio, with which we must comply at all times. As of December 31, 2009, the minimum interest coverage ratio and the maximum consolidated leverage ratio permitted under our senior secured credit facilities were both 3.75 to 1.0. Beginning with the quarter ending September 30, 2010, the minimum interest coverage ratio increases to 4.50 to 1.0 and the maximum consolidated leverage ratio decreases to 3.25 to 1.0. Beginning with the quarter ending September 30, 2011, the minimum interest coverage ratio increases further to 5.00 to 1.0 and the maximum consolidated leverage ratio decreases further to 2.50 to 1.0. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, we will be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, which could result in, among other things, the outstanding balance of our loans becoming immediately due and payable, a material increase in the interest rate and further restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility. We have substantial indebtedness under commercial banking arrangements. Our substantial indebtedness could have the following consequences: • Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired in the future; • A substantial portion of our annual cash flow for the next several years must be dedicated to the payment of principal (including the mandatory annual excess cash flow payment) and interest on the indebtedness; • Over the term of our debt, the interest cost on a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to changes in interest rates and our net earnings could be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates; • We are substantially more leveraged than certain of our competitors, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage; • We are subject to restrictive covenants that may negatively affect our operational or financial flexibility, including our ability to pursue future acquisitions; • We may be hindered in our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; • We are highly dependent on bank financing and may have difficulty in the future securing adequate bank financing with reasonable terms and conditions; and • Our high degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in one or more of our businesses. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future under the revolving facility that is part of our senior secured credit facilities, through future debt issuance or through assumption of liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. Additional borrowings could result in a higher level of interest expense, additional restrictive covenants and a reduction in financial flexibility, among other things. If we extinguish all or a significant portion of our existing debt, we may incur substantial charges related to such items as the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees and the recognition of losses on our interest rate swap agreement. 17 Table of Contents We may need to recognize additional impairment charges related to goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets. We have substantial balances of goodwill and identified intangible assets. We are required to test goodwill and any other intangible asset with an indefinite life for possible impairment on the same date each year and on an interim basis if there are indicators of a possible impairment. We are also required to evaluate amortizable intangible assets and fixed assets for impairment if there are indicators of a possible impairment. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of a potential impairment of goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets. If, as a result of a general economic slowdown, deterioration in one or more of the markets in which we operate or in our financial performance and/or future outlook, the estimated fair value of our long-lived assets decreases, we may determine that one or more of our long-lived assets is impaired. An impairment charge would be determined based on the estimated fair value of the assets and any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We have significant obligations under our defined benefit employee benefit plans. There is a significant unfunded liability related to our defined benefit employee benefit plans. Significant changes to the assets and/or the liabilities related to our defined benefit employee benefit obligations as a result of changes in actuarial estimates, asset performance, interest rates or benefit changes, among others, could have a material impact on our financial position and/or results of operations. In addition, legislation in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions may require us to fund a material portion of our significant unfunded obligations over the next several years, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial flexibility. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may be limited. Although we believe our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as well as future cash from operations and availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, we may need to seek additional financing to compete effectively. Our public debt ratings affect our ability to raise capital and the cost of that capital. As of December 31, 2009, our corporate debt rating from Standard & Poor’s is BB- with a stable outlook and from Moody’s is Ba3 with a stable outlook. Future downgrades of our debt ratings may increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to access the debt or equity markets on terms and in amounts that would be satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms, it could: • reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • restrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit business opportunities; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial condition. We maintain insurance covering our normal business operations, including property and casualty protection that we believe is adequate. We do not generally carry insurance covering wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes or 18 Table of Contents other similar catastrophic events. Because insurance has generally become more expensive, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on financially reasonable terms in the future. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate. We have a large and complex international tax profile and a significant level of net operating loss and other carryforwards in various jurisdictions. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, repatriation of earnings from foreign affiliates, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the inability to realize net operating loss and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future. A significant increase in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Difficult and volatile conditions in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we do not know if these conditions will improve in the near future. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by continuation of the difficult conditions and significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy. These factors, combined with low levels of business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a slow recovery from the global recession and concern about a return to recessionary conditions. The difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways. For example: • As a result of the recent volatility in commodity prices, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. • Under difficult market conditions there can be no assurance that borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. • In order to respond to market conditions, we may need to seek waivers from various provisions in our senior secured credit facilities. There can be no assurance that we can obtain such waivers at a reasonable cost, if at all. • Market conditions could cause the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments we use to hedge our exposure to interest rate and currency fluctuations to experience financial difficulties and, as a result, our efforts to hedge these exposures could prove unsuccessful and, furthermore, our ability to engage in additional hedging activities may decrease or become more costly. • Market conditions could result in our key customers experiencing financial difficulties and/or electing to limit spending, which in turn could result in decreased sales and earnings for us. We do not know if market conditions or the state of the overall economy will improve in the near future. Litigation and Regulatory Risks We may incur costs and may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and in defending claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We may encounter difficulties and significant costs in protecting our intellectual property rights or obtaining rights to additional intellectual property to permit us to continue or expand our business. Other companies, 19 Table of Contents including some of our largest competitors, hold intellectual property rights in our industry and the intellectual property rights of others could inhibit our ability to introduce new products unless we secure necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we have been required and may be required in the future to initiate litigation in order to enforce patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and/or validity of a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights. We also have been and may in the future be subject to lawsuits by third parties seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to cease using proprietary third party technology and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In certain markets, we may be required to address counterfeit versions of our products. We may incur significant costs in pursuing the originators of such counterfeit products and, if we are unsuccessful in eliminating them from the market, we may experience a reduction in the value of our products or a reduction in our net sales. Changes to the regulatory environment in which we or our customers operate may negatively impact our business. The telecommunications and cable television industries are subject to significant and changing federal and state regulation, both in the U.S. and other countries, and such changes could adversely impact demand for our products. Regulatory changes of more general applicability could also have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, changes to the U.S. corporate tax system have been proposed that would lead to the taxation of foreign earnings at the time they are earned rather than when they are repatriated to the U.S. Implementation of such changes would have an adverse effect on our net income and would require us to make earlier cash tax payments. Compliance with current and proposed domestic and foreign environmental laws, potential environmental liabilities and climate change may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, management of hazardous substances, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and investigation and remediation of hazardous substance contamination. Because of the nature of our business, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs relating to compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with current laws and regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, new laws and regulations, including those regulating the types of substances allowable in certain of our products, new or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new remediation or discharge requirements, could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the European Union has issued directives relating to hazardous substances contained in electrical and electronic equipment and the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment. If we are unable to comply with these and similar laws in other jurisdictions, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The physical effect of future climate change (such as increases in severe weather) may have an impact on our suppliers, customers, employees and facilities which we are unable to quantify, but which may be material. Legislation has been proposed in the U.S. and other countries that would attempt to reduce the level of greenhouse gas emissions. Enactment of such legislation could increase the cost of raw materials, production processes and transportation of our products. If we are unable to increase prices or otherwise reduce costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and similar state statutes, current or former owners or operators of a contaminated property, as well as companies that generated, disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at a contaminated property can be held jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of the contaminated property, regardless of fault. Our present and past facilities have been in operation for many years and over that time, in the course of those operations, these facilities have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes which are, or might be, considered hazardous. We have been indemnified by prior owners and operators of certain of these facilities for costs of investigation and/or remediation, but there can be no assurance that we will not ultimately be liable for some or all of these costs. Therefore, it is possible that environmental liabilities may arise in the future which we cannot now predict. Allegations of health risks from wireless equipment may negatively affect our results of operations. Allegations of health risks from the electromagnetic fields generated by base stations and mobile handsets, and potential lawsuits or negative publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could have a material adverse effect on our operations by leading consumers to reduce their use of mobile phones, reducing demand for certain of our products, or by causing us to allocate resources to these issues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 