Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have incurred substantial losses and expect future losses. We are a development stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history and limited assets and capital. We have incurred losses each year since inception and had an accumulated deficit of $30,223,030 at June 30, 2008. We have generated minimal revenues by licensing our technology for certain crops to companies willing to share in our development costs. In addition, our technology may not be ready for commercialization for several years. We expect to continue to incur losses for the next several years because we anticipate that our expenditures on research and development, and administrative activities will significantly exceed our revenues during that period. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will become profitable. We may need additional capital to fund our operations until we are able to generate a profit. Our operations to date have required significant cash expenditures. Our future capital requirements will depend on the results of our research and development activities, preclinical and clinical studies, and competitive and technological advances. In addition, the recent financings with YA Global Investments, L.P., referred to herein as YA Global, and Stanford Venture Capital Holdings, Inc., referred to herein as Stanford, are secured by all of our assets. If we default under the convertible notes, the investors may foreclose on our assets and our business. As a result, we may need to obtain more funding in the future through collaborations or other arrangements with research institutions and corporate partners or public and private offerings of our securities, including debt or equity financing. We may not be able to obtain adequate funds for our operations from these sources when needed or on acceptable terms. Future collaborations or similar arrangements may require us to license valuable intellectual property to, or to share substantial economic benefits with, our collaborators. If we raise additional capital by issuing additional equity or securities convertible into equity, our stockholders may experience dilution and our share price may decline. Any debt financing may result in restrictions on our spending. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we will need to do one or more of the following: · delay, scale-back or eliminate some or all of our research and product development programs; · license third parties to develop and commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves; · seek strategic alliances or business combinations; 15 · attempt to sell our company; · cease operations; or · declare bankruptcy. We believe that at the projected rate of spending we should have sufficient cash and investments to maintain our present operations for the next 13 months as of June 30, 2008. We depend on a single principal technology and, if our technology is not commercially successful, we will have no alternative source of revenue. Our primary business is the development and licensing of technology to identify, isolate, characterize and promote or silence genes which control the death of cells in humans and plants. Our future revenue and profitability critically depend upon our ability to successfully develop apoptosis and senescence gene technology and later license or market such technology. We have conducted experiments on certain crops with favorable results and have conducted certain preliminary cell-line and animal experiments, which have provided us with data upon which we have designed additional research programs. However, we cannot give any assurance that our technology will be commercially successful or economically viable for any crops or human health applications. In addition, no assurance can be given that adverse consequences might not result from the use of our technology such as the development of negative effects on humans or plants or reduced benefits in terms of crop yield or protection. Our failure to obtain market acceptance of our technology or of our current or potential licensees to successfully commercialize such technology would have a material adverse effect on our business. We outsource all of our research and development activities and, if we are unsuccessful in maintaining our alliances with these third parties, our research and development efforts may be delayed or curtailed. We rely on third parties to perform all of our research and development activities. Our research and development efforts take place at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada, where our technology was discovered, the University of Colorado, Mayo Clinic, the University of Virginia, and with our commercial partners. At this time, we do not have the internal capabilities to perform our research and development activities. Accordingly, the failure of third-party research partners to perform under agreements entered into with us, or our failure to renew important research agreements with these third parties, may delay or curtail our research and development efforts. We have significant future capital needs and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay or reduce our research and development efforts. As of June 30, 2008, we had cash and highly-liquid investments of $6,176,985 and working capital of $5,673,107. Using our available reserves as of June 30, 2008, we believe that we can operate according to our current business plan for the next 13 months from June 30, 2008. To date, we have generated minimal revenues and anticipate that our operating costs will exceed any revenues generated over the next several years. Therefore, we will be required to raise additional capital in the future in order to operate according to our current business plan, and this funding may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise 16 additional funds, we will need to do one or more of the following: · delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs; · license third parties to develop and commercialize our technology that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves; · seek strategic alliances or business combinations; · attempt to sell our company; · cease operations; or · declare bankruptcy. In addition, in connection with any funding, if we need to issue more equity securities than our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes, or more than 20% of the shares of our common stock outstanding, we may need stockholder approval. If stockholder approval is not obtained or if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates, products or potential markets. Investors may experience dilution in their investment from future offerings of our common stock. For example, if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, such an issuance would reduce the percentage ownership of existing stockholders. In addition, assuming the exercise of all options and warrants outstanding and the conversion of the notes into common stock, as of June 30, 2008, we had 7,957,957 shares of common stock authorized but unissued and unreserved, which may be issued from time to time by our board of directors without stockholder approval. The total number of shares that may be issued under the financing is subject to certain caps as more fully described in this Form 10-K. Furthermore, we may need to issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Failure to obtain financing on acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Since our inception, we have financed all of our operations through private equity and debt financings. Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including: · the scope of our research and development; · our ability to attract business partners willing to share in our development costs; · our ability to successfully commercialize our technology; · competing technological and market developments; · our ability to enter into collaborative arrangements for the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of other products; and · the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. Our business depends upon our patents and proprietary rights and the enforcement of these rights. Our failure to obtain and maintain patent protection may increase competition and reduce demand for our technology. As a result of the substantial length of time and expense associated with developing products and bringing them to the marketplace in the biotechnology and agricultural industries, obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for technologies, products and processes is of vital importance. Our success will depend in part on several factors, including, without limitation: 17 · our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies and processes; · our ability to preserve our trade secrets; and · our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties both in the United States and in foreign countries. As of June 30, 2008, we have been issued nineteen patents by the PTO and twenty-three patents from foreign countries. We have also filed numerous patent applications for our technology in the United States and in several foreign countries, which technology is vital to our primary business, as well as several Continuations in Part on these patent applications. Our success depends in part upon the grant of patents from our pending patent applications. Although we believe that our technology is unique and will not violate or infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third party, we cannot assure you that these claims will not be made or if made, could be successfully defended against. If we do not obtain and maintain patent protection, we may face increased competition in the United States and internationally, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Since patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of the inventions covered by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions. In addition, among other things, we cannot assure you that: · our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; · any patents issued or licensed to us will be free from challenge and that if challenged, would be held to be valid; · any patents issued or licensed to us will provide commercially significant protection for our technology, products and processes; · other companies will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information which is not covered by our patent rights; · other companies will not obtain access to our know-how; · other companies will not be granted patents that may prevent the commercialization of our technology; or · we will not require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties to third parties for the use of their intellectual property in order to enable us to conduct our business. Our competitors may allege that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, forcing us to incur substantial costs and expenses in resulting litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Patent law is still evolving relative to the scope and enforceability of claims in the fields in which we operate. We are like most biotechnology companies in that our patent protection is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which legal principles are not yet firmly established. In addition, if issued, our patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. 18 The PTO and the courts have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. We could become involved in infringement actions to enforce and/or protect our patents. Regardless of the outcome, patent litigation is expensive and time consuming and would distract our management from other activities. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we could because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any patent litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If our technology infringes the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or damages. If any relevant claims of third-party patents that are adverse to us are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from commercializing our technology or could be required to obtain licenses from the owners of such patents. We cannot assure you that such licenses would be available or, if available, would be on acceptable terms. Some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. In addition, if any parties successfully claim that the creation or use of our technology infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to pay damages, including treble damages. Our security measures may not adequately protect our unpatented technology and, if we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology may be adversely affected. Our success depends upon know-how, unpatentable trade secrets, and the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel. As a result, we require all employees to agree to a confidentiality provision in their employment agreement that prohibits the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside of our company, during the term of employment and thereafter. We also require all employees to disclose and assign to us the rights to their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. We also attempt to enter into similar agreements with our consultants, advisors and research collaborators. We cannot assure you that adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information against unauthorized use or disclosure will be available. We occasionally provide information to research collaborators in academic institutions and request the collaborators conduct certain tests. We cannot assure you that the academic institutions will not assert intellectual property rights in the results of the tests conducted by the research collaborators, or that the academic institutions will grant licenses under such intellectual property rights to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If the assertion of intellectual property rights by an academic institution is substantiated, and the academic institution does not grant intellectual property rights to us, these events could limit our ability to commercialize our technology. 19 As we evolve from a company primarily involved in the research and development of our technology into one that is also involved in the commercialization of our technology, we may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations. As our business grows, we may need to add employees and enhance our management, systems and procedures. We may need to successfully integrate our internal operations with the operations of our marketing partners, manufacturers, distributors and suppliers to produce and market commercially viable products. We may also need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other organizations. Although we do not presently conduct research and development activities in-house, we may undertake those activities in the future. Expanding our business may place a significant burden on our management and operations. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner and we may discover deficiencies in our existing systems and controls. Our failure to effectively respond to changes may make it difficult for us to manage our growth and expand our operations. We have no marketing or sales history and depend on third-party marketing partners. Any failure of these parties to perform would delay or limit our commercialization efforts. We have no history of marketing, distributing or selling biotechnology products and we are relying on our ability to successfully establish marketing partners or other arrangements with third parties to market, distribute and sell a commercially viable product both here and abroad. Our business plan envisions creating strategic alliances to access needed commercialization and marketing expertise. We may not be able to attract qualified sub-licensees, distributors or marketing partners, and even if qualified, these marketing partners may not be able to successfully market agricultural products or human health applications developed with our technology. If our current or potential future marketing partners fail to provide adequate levels of sales, our commercialization efforts will be delayed or limited and we may not be able to generate revenue. We will depend on joint ventures and strategic alliances to develop and market our technology and, if these arrangements are not successful, our technology may not be developed and the expenses to commercialize our technology will increase. In its current state of development, our technology is not ready to be marketed to consumers. We intend to follow a multi-faceted commercialization strategy that involves the licensing of our technology to business partners for the purpose of further technological development, marketing and distribution. We have and are seeking business partners who will share the burden of our development costs while our technology is still being developed, and who will pay us royalties when they market and distribute products incorporating our technology upon commercialization. The establishment of joint ventures and strategic alliances may create future competitors, especially in certain regions abroad where we do not pursue patent protection. If we fail to establish beneficial business partners and strategic alliances, our growth will suffer and the continued development of our technology may be harmed. 20 Competition in the human health and agricultural biotechnology industries is intense and technology is changing rapidly. If our competitors market their technology faster than we do, we may not be able to generate revenues from the commercialization of our technology. Many human health and agricultural biotechnology companies are engaged in research and development activities relating to apoptosis and senescence. The market for plant protection and yield enhancement products is intensely competitive, rapidly changing and undergoing consolidation. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins and the inability to achieve market acceptance for products containing our technology. Our competitors in the field of plant senescence gene technology are companies that develop and produce transgenic plants and include major international agricultural companies, specialized biotechnology companies, research and academic institutions and, potentially, our joint venture and strategic alliance partners. These companies include: Icoria (formerly Paradigm Genetics); Mendel Biotechnology; Renessen LLC; Exelixis Plant Sciences, Inc.; Syngenta International AG; and Eden Bioscience, among others. Some of our competitors that are involved in apoptosis research include: Amgen; Centocor; Genzyme; OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Novartis; Introgen Therapeutics, Inc.; Genta, Inc.; and Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution and technical resources than us and have more experience in research and development, clinical trials, regulatory matters, manufacturing and marketing. We anticipate increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and new technologies become available. Our technology may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors, which will prevent or limit our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization of our technology. Our business is subject to various government regulations and, if we or our licensees are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we may not be able to continue our operations. At present, the U.S. federal government regulation of biotechnology is divided among three agencies: · the USDA regulates the import, field testing and interstate movement of specific types of genetic engineering that may be used in the creation of transgenic plants; · the EPA regulates activity related to the invention of plant pesticides and herbicides, which may include certain kinds of transgenic plants; and · the FDA regulates foods derived from new plant varieties. The FDA requires that transgenic plants meet the same standards for safety that are required for all other plants and foods in general. Except in the case of additives that significantly alter a food’s structure, the FDA does not require any additional standards or specific approval for genetically engineered foods, but expects transgenic plant developers to consult the FDA before introducing a new food into the marketplace. Use of our technology, if developed for human health applications, will also be subject to FDA regulation. The FDA must approve any drug or biologic product before it can be marketed in the United States. In addition, prior to being sold outside of the U.S., any products resulting from the application of our human health technology must be approved by the regulatory agencies of foreign governments. Prior to filing a new drug application or biologics license 21 application with the FDA, we would have to perform extensive clinical trials, and prior to beginning any clinical trial, we need to perform extensive preclinical testing which could take several years and may require substantial expenditures. We believe that our current activities, which to date have been confined to research and development efforts, do not require licensing or approval by any governmental regulatory agency. However, we are planning on performing clinical trials, which would be subject to FDA approval. Additionally, federal, state and foreign regulations relating to crop protection products and human health applications developed through biotechnology are subject to public concerns and political circumstances, and, as a result, regulations have changed and may change substantially in the future. Accordingly, we may become subject to governmental regulations or approvals or become subject to licensing requirements in connection with our research and development efforts. We may also be required to obtain such licensing or approval from the governmental regulatory agencies described above, or from state agencies, prior to the commercialization of our genetically transformed plants and human health technology. In addition, our marketing partners who utilize our technology or sell products grown with our technology may be subject to government regulations. If unfavorable governmental regulations are imposed on our technology or if we fail to obtain licenses or approvals in a timely manner, we may not be able to continue our operations. Preclinical studies and clinical trials of our human health applications may be unsuccessful, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval. Preclinical studies may reveal that our human health technology is ineffective or harmful, and/or clinical trials may be unsuccessful in demonstrating efficacy and safety of our human health technology, which would significantly limit the possibility of obtaining regulatory approval for any drug or biologic product manufactured with our technology. The FDA requires submission of extensive preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data to assess the efficacy and safety of potential products. Furthermore, the success of preliminary studies does not ensure commercial success, and later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results of the preliminary studies. Any inability to license from third parties their proprietary technologies or processes which we use in connection with the development of our technology may impair our business. Other companies, universities and research institutions have or may obtain patents that could limit our ability to use our technology in a product candidate or impair our competitive position. As a result, we would have to obtain licenses from other parties before we could continue using our technology in a product candidate. Any necessary licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may not be able to develop our technology into a product candidate or we may encounter significant delays in development while we redesign methods that are found to infringe on the patents held by others. Clinical trials for our human health technology will be lengthy and expensive and their outcome is uncertain Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sales of any product containing our technology, we must demonstrate through clinical testing that our technology and product containing our technology is safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a 22 time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process and typically requires years to complete. In our industry, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials often are not predictive of results obtained in later-stage clinical trials. Some products and technologies that have shown promising results in preclinical studies or early clinical trials subsequently fail to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval. At any time during clinical trials we or the FDA might delay or halt any clinical trial for various reasons, including: · occurrence of unacceptable toxicities or side effects; · ineffectiveness of the product candidate; · negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials, or results that necessitate additional studies or clinical trials; · delays in obtaining or maintaining required approvals from institutions, review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites; · delays in patient enrollment; or · insufficient funding or a reprioritization of financial or other resources. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates could severely harm our business. Even if we receive regulatory approval, consumers may not accept products containing our technology, which will prevent us from being profitable since we have no other source of revenue. We cannot guarantee that consumers will accept products containing our technology. Recently, there has been consumer concern and consumer advocate activism with respect to genetically engineered agricultural consumer products. The adverse consequences from heightened consumer concern in this regard could affect the markets for agricultural products developed with our technology and could also result in increased government regulation in response to that concern. If the public or potential customers perceive our technology to be genetic modification or genetic engineering, agricultural products grown with our technology may not gain market acceptance. We depend on our key personnel and, if we are not able to attract and retain qualified scientific and business personnel, we may not be able to grow our business or develop and commercialize our technology. We are highly dependent on our scientific advisors, consultants and third-party research partners. Our success will also depend in part on the continued service of our key employees and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel in an intensely competitive market. Although we have employment agreements with all of our key employees and a research agreement with Dr. Thompson, these agreements may be terminated upon short or no notice. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any member of management. The failure to attract and retain key personnel could limit our growth and hinder our research and development efforts. 23 Certain provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law could make a takeover difficult. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, except as may be required by the rules of the American Stock Exchange, 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Similarly, our by-laws do not restrict our board of directors from issuing preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, we are subject to the Business Combination Act of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date such stockholder becomes a 15% owner. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us without action by our stockholders and, therefore, could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Furthermore, in the event of our merger or consolidation with or into another corporation, or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets in which the successor corporation does not assume outstanding options or issue equivalent options, our board of directors is required to provide accelerated vesting of outstanding options. Increasing political and social turmoil, such as terrorist and military actions, increase the difficulty for us and our strategic partners to forecast accurately and plan future business activities. Recent political and social turmoil, can be expected to put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These political, social and economic conditions may make it difficult for us to plan future business activities. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our management and other affiliates have significant control of our common stock and could significantly influence our actions in a manner that conflicts with our interests and the interests of other stockholders. As of June 30, 2008, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially own approximately 70.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, assuming the exercise of options and warrants which are currently exercisable or will become exercisable within 60 days of June 30, 2008, held by these stockholders. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, and may not always act in the best interests of other stockholders. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. 24 A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock may be sold in the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. As of June 30, 2008, we had 18,375,117 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, of which approximately 5,319,639 shares are registered pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 and the remainder of which are either eligible to be sold under SEC Rule 144 or are in the public float. In addition, we have registered 2,632,194 shares of our common stock underlying warrants previously issued on the Form S-3 registration statement and we registered 6,000,000 shares of our common stock underlying options granted or to be granted under our stock option plan. Consequently, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our common stock has a limited trading market, which could limit your ability to resell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price. Our common stock is quoted on the American Stock Exchange and currently has a limited trading market. The American Stock Exchange requires us to meet minimum financial requirements in order to maintain our listing. We currently believe that we meet the continued listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet such standards. If we do not meet the continued listing standards, we could be delisted. We cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or, if developed, will be maintained. As a result, our stockholders may find it difficult to dispose of shares of our common stock and, as a result, may suffer a loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment. If our common stock is delisted from the American Stock Exchange, we may not be able to list on any other stock exchange, and our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” regulations which may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. The American Stock Exchange requires us to meet minimum financial requirements in order to maintain our listing. We have previously received notices from the American Stock Exchange that we did not meet each of Section 1003(a)(ii) of the American Stock Exchange Company Guide with shareholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three out of our four most recent fiscal years and Section 1003(a)(iii) of the American Stock Exchange Company Guide with shareholders’ equity less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in the five most recent fiscal years. We had submitted a plan to the American Stock Exchange discussing how we intended to regain compliance with the continued listing requirements. The American Stock Exchange had accepted our plan and had given us until March 1, 2008 to effectuate the plan and regain compliance with the continued listing requirements. On March 12, 2008, the American Stock Exchange notified us that we have regained compliance with the continued listing requirements. As of June 30, 2008, we believe that we continue to be in compliance with the American Stock Exchange’s continued listing requirements. However, if we are unable to continue to be in compliance with the continued listing requirements, it is possible that we will be delisted. If we are delisted from the American Stock Exchange, our common stock likely will become a “penny stock.” In general, regulations of the SEC define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market and that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than 25 $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock becomes a penny stock, additional sales practice requirements would be imposed on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than certain qualified investors. For transactions involving a penny stock, unless exempt, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. In addition, the rules on penny stocks require delivery, prior to and after any penny stock transaction, of disclosures required by the SEC. If our stock is not accepted for listing on the American Stock Exchange, we will make every possible effort to have it listed on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board, or the OTC Bulletin Board. If our common stock were to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and related SEC rules would impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell our securities. These rules may adversely affect the ability of stockholders to sell our common stock and otherwise negatively affect the liquidity, trading market and price of our common stock. We believe that the listing of our common stock on a recognized national trading market, such as the American Stock Exchange, is an important part of our business and strategy. Such a listing helps our stockholders by providing a readily available trading market with current quotations. Without that, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock would likely decline. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our common stock as currency or the value accorded it by other parties. In that regard, the absence of a listing on a recognized national trading market will also affect our ability to benefit from the use of our operations and expansion plans, including for use in licensing agreements, joint ventures, the development of strategic relationships and acquisitions, which are critical to our business and strategy and none of which is currently the subject of any agreement, arrangement or understanding, with respect to any future financing or strategic relationship it may undertake. The delisting from the American Stock Exchange would result in negative publicity and would negatively impact our ability to raise capital in the future. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate and may drop below the price you paid. We cannot assure you that you will be able to resell the shares of our common stock at or above your purchase price. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · quarterly variations in operating results; · the progress or perceived progress of our research and development efforts; · changes in accounting treatments or principles; · announcements by us or our competitors of new technology, product and service offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future offerings or resales of our common stock or other securities; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies in general and development companies in particular; and · general political, economic and market conditions. 26 Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our shares of common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock and we intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their investment unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution as a result of the conversion of outstanding convertible debentures, or the exercise of options and warrants to purchase our common stock. As of June 30, 2008, we have granted options outside of our stock option plan to purchase 10,000 shares of our common stock and outstanding warrants to purchase 19,796,926 shares of our common stock. In addition, as of June 30, 2008, we have reserved 6,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance upon the exercise of options granted pursuant to our stock option plan, 3,805,600 of which have been granted, 90,000 of which have been exercised since inception, 3,715,600 of which are outstanding, and 2,194,400 of which may be granted in the future. The exercise of these options and warrants will result in dilution to our existing stockholders and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, any shares issued in connection with the YA Global financing or Stanford Financing, as further discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, can also have a dilutive effect and a possible material adverse effect on our stock price. The conversion price of the warrants are also subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. The agreements with YA Global and Stanford provide for the potential issuance of up to an additional 61,833,332 shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 