ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The supermarket business is highly competitive and characterized by narrow profit margins. Results of operations may be materially adversely impacted by competitive pricing and promotional programs, industry consolidation and competitor store openings. Village competes directly with multiple retail formats, including national, regional and local supermarket chains as well as warehouse clubs, supercenters, drug stores, discount general merchandise stores, fast food chains, restaurants, dollar stores and convenience stores. Competition with these outlets is based on price, store location, promotion, product assortment, quality and service. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do. In addition, Village made investments in lower prices to combat nontraditional competitors beginning in the second half of fiscal 2013. GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION AND NEW TRADE AREA The Company’s stores are concentrated in New Jersey, with one store in northeastern Pennsylvania and two in Maryland. We are vulnerable to economic downturns in New Jersey in addition to those that may affect the country as a whole. Economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates, energy costs and unemployment rates may adversely affect our sales and profits. Further, since our store base is concentrated in densely populated metropolitan areas, opportunities for future store expansion may be limited, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Village acquired two stores in July 2011 in Maryland, a new market for Village where the ShopRite name is less known than in New Jersey. Maryland stores sales, marketing costs and operating performance remain worse than initially projected as we continue to build market share and brand awareness. If these trends continue, the performance of our Maryland stores may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. WAKEFERN RELATIONSHIP Village purchases substantially all of its merchandise from Wakefern. In addition, Wakefern provides the Company with support services in numerous areas including supplies, advertising, liability and property insurance, technology support and other store services. Further, Village receives patronage dividends and other product incentives from Wakefern. Any material change in Wakefern’s method of operation or a termination or material modification of Village’s relationship with Wakefern could have an adverse impact on the conduct of the Company’s business and could involve additional expense for Village. The failure of any Wakefern member to fulfill its obligations to Wakefern or a member’s insolvency or withdrawal from Wakefern could result in increased costs to the Company. Additionally, an adverse change in Wakefern’s results of operations could have an adverse effect on Village’s results of operations. 5 LABOR RELATIONS Approximately 91% of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. Contracts with the Company’s seven unions expire between December 2014 and October 2018. Approximately 29% of our associates are represented by unions whose contracts expire within one year. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care and pension costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. This could significantly disrupt our operations or have an adverse impact on our financial results. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreement, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on our results of operations. HEALTHCARE LEGISLATION We provide health benefits to a large number of our employees, primarily through multi-employer health plans. Effective January 1, 2015, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will impose new mandates on employers that could significantly increase the number of employees receiving benefits and our required contributions to these multi-employer health plans. The impact of the law will depend on many factors, including finalization of rules implementing the law, the number of additional employees that we will be required to provide health benefits and the number of eligible employees that enroll for medical benefits, which could be material to our results of operations. FOOD SAFETY The Company could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the food supply chain. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, could discourage consumers from buying our products. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in a loss of consumer confidence and product liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION PLANS The Company is required to make contributions to multi-employer pension plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are funded. Benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. Based on the most recent information available to us, certain of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related items will be issues in the negotiation of our collective bargaining agreements. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur a withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under complex actuarial and allocation rules. The failure of a withdrawing employer to fund these obligations can impact remaining employers. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations and the actual return on assets held in the plans, among other factors. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information relating to our participation in multi-employer pension plans. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS Our long-lived assets, primarily stores, are subject to periodic testing for impairment. Failure of our asset groups to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow could result in impairment charges on long-lived assets. TAXES The Company’s effective tax rate may be impacted by the results of tax examinations and changes in tax laws, including the disputes with the state of New Jersey described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Wakefern provides all members of the cooperative with information system support that enables us to effectively manage our business data, customer transactions, ordering, communications and other business processes. These information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and related malicious software, catastrophic weather events, or human error. Any material interruption of our or Wakefern’s information systems could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 6 Due to the nature of our business, personal information about our customers, vendors and associates is received and stored in these information systems. In addition, confidential information is transmitted through our ShopRite from Home online business at shoprite.com and through the ShopRite app. Unauthorized parties may attempt to access information stored in or to sabotage or disrupt these systems. Wakefern and the Company maintain substantial security measures to prevent and detect unauthorized access to such information, including utilizing third-party service providers for monitoring our networks, security reviews, and other functions. It is possible that computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others may be able to defeat the security measures in place at Wakefern or those of third-party service providers. Any breach of these security measures and loss of confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, could damage our reputation with customers, vendors and associates, cause Wakefern and Village to incur significant costs to protect any customers, vendors and associates whose personal data was compromised, make changes to our information systems and could result in government enforcement actions and litigation against Wakefern and/or Village from outside parties. Any such breach could have a material adverse impact on our operations, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity if the related costs to Wakefern and Village are not covered or are in excess of carried insurance policies. In addition, a security breach could require Wakefern and Village to devote significant management resources to address problems created by the security breach and restore our reputation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 