ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risk and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that - 20 - Table of Contents we do not currently know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Compliance with recent changes in federal regulations applicable to long-term acute care hospitals operated as “hospitals within hospitals” or as “satellites” will result in increased capital expenditures and may have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. On August 11, 2004, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, also known as CMS, published final regulations applicable to long-term acute care hospitals that are operated as “hospitals within hospitals” or as “satellites” (collectively referred to as “HIHs”). HIHs are separate hospitals located in space leased from, and located in, general acute care hospitals, known as “host” hospitals. Effective for hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004, the final regulations, subject to certain exceptions, provide lower rates of reimbursement to HIHs for those Medicare patients admitted from their hosts that are in excess of a specified percentage threshold. For HIHs opened after October 1, 2004, the Medicare admissions threshold has been established at 25%. For HIHs that meet specified criteria and were in existence as of October 1, 2004, including all of our existing HIHs, the Medicare admissions thresholds will be phased-in over a four-year period starting with hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004, as follows: (i) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2004 and before October 1, 2005, the Medicare admissions threshold was the Fiscal 2004 Percentage (as defined below) of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital; (ii) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and before October 1, 2006, the Medicare admissions threshold is the lesser of the Fiscal 2004 Percentage of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital or 75%; (iii) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2006 and before October 1, 2007, the Medicare admissions threshold is the lesser of the Fiscal 2004 Percentage of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital or 50%; and (iv) for discharges during cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2007, the Medicare admissions threshold is 25%. As used above, “Fiscal 2004 Percentage” means, with respect to any HIH, the percentage of all Medicare patients discharged by such HIH during its cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2003 and before October 1, 2004 who were admitted to such HIH from its host hospital. As of December 31, 2005, 93 of our 97 long-term acute care hospitals operated as HIHs. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 56% of the Medicare admissions to these HIHs were from host hospitals. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 10% of these HIHs admitted 25% or fewer of their Medicare patients from their host hospitals, approximately 34% of these HIHs admitted 50% or fewer of their Medicare patients from their host hospitals, and approximately 74% of these HIHs admitted 75% or fewer of their Medicare patients from their host hospitals. The admissions data for the year ended December 31, 2005 is not necessarily indicative of the admissions mix these hospitals will experience in the future. These new HIH regulations had only a negligible impact on our 2005 financial results, but could have a significant negative impact on our financial results thereafter. In order to minimize the more significant impact of the HIH regulations in 2006 and future years, we have developed a business plan and strategy in each of our markets to adapt to the HIH regulations and maintain our company’s current business. Our transition plan includes managing admissions at existing HIHs, relocating certain HIHs to leased spaces in smaller host hospitals in the same markets, consolidating HIHs in certain of our markets, relocating certain of our facilities to alternative settings, building or buying free-standing facilities and closing a small number of facilities. There can be no assurance that we can successfully implement such changes to our existing HIH business model or successfully control the capital expenditures associated with such changes. As a result, our ability to operate our long-term acute care hospitals effectively and our net operating revenues and profitably may be adversely affected. For example, because physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline if the relocation efforts for certain of our HIHs adversely affect our relationships with the physicians in those communities. See “Business — Specialty Hospitals — - 21 - Table of Contents Recent Long-Term Acute Care Hospital Regulatory Developments” and “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Regulatory Changes.” Government implementation of recently proposed changes to Medicare’s method of reimbursing our long-term acute care hospitals may have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. All Medicare payments to our long-term acute care hospitals are made in accordance with a new prospective payment system specifically applicable to long-term acute care hospitals, referred to as “LTCH-PPS”. Under LTCH-PPS, a long-term acute care hospital is paid a predetermined fixed amount depending upon the long-term care diagnosis-related group, or “LTC-DRG,” to which each patient is assigned. LTCH-PPS includes special payment policies that adjust the payments for some patients based on a variety of factors. On January 27, 2006, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (known as “CMS”) published its proposed annual payment rate updates for the 2007 LTCH-PPS rate year (affecting cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2006 and before July 1, 2007). The January 2006 proposed rule includes the following proposed changes to LTCH-PPS payment methodologies: (i) addition of a new payment methodology for Medicare patients with a length of stay less than or equal to 5/6ths of the geometric average length of stay for each LTC-DRG (referred to as “short-stay outlier” or “SSO” cases), so that payment for a significant portion of SSO cases will be reduced to an amount comparable with that paid under the general acute care hospital reimbursement methodology; (ii) a zero-percent update to the LTCH-PPS standard federal rate used as a basis for LTCH-PPS payments; (iii) sunset of the surgical case exception to the three-day or less interruption of stay policy, under which Medicare reimburses a general acute care hospital directly for surgical services furnished to a long-term acute care hospital patient during a brief interruption of stay from the long-term acute care hospital, rather than requiring the long-term acute care hospital to bear responsibility for such surgical services; and (iv) increasing the costs that a long-term acute care hospital must bear before Medicare will make additional payments for a case under its high-cost outlier policy. CMS estimates that the changes it is proposing for the 2007 LTCH-PPS rate year will result in an approximately 11 percent decrease in Medicare payments to long-term acute care hospitals as compared to the 2006 rate year. Consistent with its standard process for adopting regulations, CMS has solicited and will consider comments on the January 2006 proposed rule before it publishes a final update for the 2007 LTCH-PPS rate year. As a result, CMS may elect not to adopt certain of its proposals or the agency may adopt the proposals with modifications. If, however, the January 2006 proposals are adopted without modification, these changes in LTCH-PPS reimbursement policy will reduce our net operating revenues and will adversely affect our financial performance. See “Business — Specialty Hospitals — Recent Long-Term Acute Care Hospital Regulatory Developments” and “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Long-term acute care hospital Medicare reimbursement.” If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to maintain their certifications as long-term acute care hospitals or if our facilities operated as HIHs fail to qualify as hospitals separate from their host hospitals, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. As of December 31, 2005, all of our long-term acute care hospitals were certified by Medicare as long-term acute care hospitals. If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to meet or maintain the standards for certification as long-term acute care hospitals, namely minimum average length of patient stay, they will receive payments under the prospective payment system applicable to general acute care hospitals rather than payment under the system applicable to long-term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would result in our long-term acute care hospitals receiving less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services. In its preamble to the January 27, 2006 proposed rule updating the long-term acute care Medicare prospective payment system, CMS discussed the contract that it has awarded to Research Triangle Institute, International (“RTI”) to examine recent recommendations made by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, or MedPAC, concerning how long-term acute care hospitals are defined and differentiated - 22 - Table of Contents from other types of Medicare providers. MedPAC is an independent federal body that advises Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program. In its June 2004 “Report to Congress,” MedPAC recommended the adoption by CMS of new facility staffing and services criteria and patient clinical characteristics and treatment requirements for long-term acute care hospitals in order to ensure that only appropriate patients are admitted to these facilities. CMS indicated that it expects RTI’s final report to be submitted to the agency in late Spring 2006. While acknowledging that RTI’s findings are expected to have a substantial impact on future Medicare policy for long-term acute care hospitals, CMS stated its belief that many of the specific payment adjustment features of LTCH-PPS presently in place may still be necessary and appropriate even with the development of patient- and facility-level criteria for long-term acute care hospitals. Failure to meet existing long-term acute care certification criteria or implementation of additional criteria that would limit the population of patients eligible for our hospitals’ services or change the basis on which we are paid could adversely affect our net operating revenues and profitability. Nearly all of our long-term acute care hospitals operate as HIHs and as a result are subject to additional Medicare criteria that require certain indications of separateness from the host hospital. If any of our long-term acute care HIHs fail to meet the separateness requirements, they will be reimbursed at the lower general acute care hospital rate, which would likely cause our net operating revenues and profitability to decrease. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Long-term acute care hospital Medicare reimbursement.” Implementation of modifications to the admissions policies for our inpatient rehabilitation facilities as required in order to achieve compliance with Medicare regulations may result in a loss of patient volume at these hospitals and, as a result, may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. As of December 31, 2005, our four acute medical rehabilitation hospitals were certified by Medicare as inpatient rehabilitation facilities. Under the historic inpatient rehabilitation facility, or IRF, certification criteria that had been in effect since 1983, in order to qualify as an IRF, a hospital was required to satisfy certain operational criteria as well as demonstrate that, during its most recent 12-month cost reporting period, it served an inpatient population of whom at least 75% required intensive rehabilitation services for one or more of ten conditions specified in the regulations (referred to as the “75% test”). In 2002, CMS became aware that its various contractors were using inconsistent methods to assess compliance with the 75% test and that many inpatient rehabilitation facilities were not in compliance with the 75% test. In response, in June 2002, CMS suspended enforcement of the 75% test and, on September 9, 2003, proposed modifications to the regulatory standards for certification as an IRF. Notwithstanding concerns stated by the industry and Congress in late 2003 and early 2004 about the adverse impact that CMS’s proposed changes and renewed enforcement efforts might have on access to inpatient rehabilitation facility services, and notwithstanding Congressional requests that CMS delay implementation of or changes to the 75% test for additional study of clinically appropriate certification criteria, on May 7, 2004, CMS adopted a final rule that made significant changes to the certification standard. CMS temporarily lowered the 75% compliance threshold to 50%, with a gradual increase back to 75% over the course of a four-year period. CMS also expanded from 10 to 13 the number of medical conditions used to determine compliance with the 75% test (or any phase-in percentage) and finalized the conditions under which comorbidities may be used to satisfy the 75% test. Finally, CMS changed the timeframe used to determine a provider’s compliance with the inpatient rehabilitation facility criteria including the 75% test so that any changes in a facility’s certification based on compliance with the 75% test may be made effective in the cost reporting period immediately following the review period for determining compliance. Congress temporarily suspended enforcement of the 75% test when it enacted the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005, which requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to respond within 60 days to a report by the Government Accountability Office, or GAO, on the standards for defining inpatient rehabilitation services before the Secretary may terminate a hospital’s designation as an inpatient rehabilitation facility for failure to meet the 75% test. The GAO issued its report on April 22, 2005, and recommended that CMS, based on further research, refine the 75% test to - 23 - Table of Contents describe more thoroughly the subgroups of patients within the qualifying conditions that are appropriate for care in an inpatient rehabilitation facility. The Secretary issued a formal response to the GAO study on June 24, 2005, in which it concluded that the revised inpatient rehabilitation facility certification standards, including the 75% test, were consistent with the recommendations in the GAO report. In light of this determination, the Secretary announced that CMS would immediately begin enforcement of the revised certification standards. Subsequently, under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, enacted on February 8, 2006, Congress extended the phase-in period for the 75% test by maintaining the compliance threshold at 60% (rather than increasing it to 65%) during the 12-month period beginning on July 1, 2006. The compliance threshold then increases to 65% for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007 and again to 75% for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2008. The inpatient rehabilitation facilities we acquired as part of our Kessler acquisition in September 2003 may not have fully met the historic standard. In order to achieve compliance with the revised 75% test, it may be necessary for us to implement more restrictive admissions policies at our inpatient rehabilitation facilities and not admit patients whose diagnoses fall outside the specified conditions. Such policies may result in decreased patient volumes, which could have a negative effect on the financial performance of these facilities. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Inpatient rehabilitation facility Medicare reimbursement.” Implementation of annual caps that limit the amounts that can be paid for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics receive payments from the Medicare program under a fee schedule. Congress has established annual caps that limit the amounts that can be paid (including deductible and coinsurance amounts) for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary. These annual caps were to go into effect on January 1, 1999, however, after their adoption, Congress imposed a moratorium on the caps through 2002, and then re-imposed the moratorium for 2004 and 2005. Congress allowed the therapy caps to go back into effect on January 1, 2006. The inflation adjusted caps are $1,740 in 2006. As directed by Congress in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, CMS is implementing an exceptions process for therapy expenses incurred in 2006. Under this process, a Medicare enrollee may request an exception from the therapy caps if the provision of therapy services is deemed to be medically necessary. Therapy cap exceptions will be available automatically for certain conditions and on a case-by-case basis upon submission of documentation of medical necessity. We believe these therapy caps could have an adverse effect on the net operating revenues we generate from providing outpatient rehabilitation services to Medicare beneficiaries, to the extent that such patients receive services for which total payments would exceed the annual caps. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we received approximately 11% of our outpatient rehabilitation net operating revenues from Medicare. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Outpatient rehabilitation services Medicare reimbursement.” If there are changes in the rates or methods of government reimbursements for our services, our net operating revenues and profitability could decline. Approximately 56% of our net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 came from the highly regulated federal Medicare program. In recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the Medicare program. Additional changes to these payment systems, including modifications to the conditions on qualification for payment and the imposition of enrollment limitations on new providers, - 24 - Table of Contents may be proposed or could be adopted, either in Congress or by CMS. For instance, in its preamble to the January 27, 2006 proposed rule updating the long-term acute care hospital Medicare prospective payment system, CMS announced that it is studying whether payment adjustments similar to those adopted with respect to HIHs in 2004 should also be adopted with respect to free-standing long-term acute care hospitals. Such adjustments could include limiting payments to free-standing long-term acute care hospitals to the extent that greater than 25% of a facility’s admissions come from a single general acute care hospital. Because of the possibility of adoption of these kinds of proposals, the availability, methods and rates of Medicare reimbursements for services of the type furnished at our facilities could change at any time. Some of these changes and proposed changes could adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. In addition, there can be no assurance that any increases in Medicare reimbursement rates established by CMS will fully reflect increases in our operating costs. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our net operating revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • facility and professional licensure, including certificates of need; • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among healthcare providers, Medicare fraud and abuse, and physician self-referral; • addition of facilities and services and enrollment of newly developed facilities in the Medicare program; and • payment for services. Recently, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. The ongoing investigations relate to, among other things, various referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, physician ownership and joint ventures involving hospitals. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services and capital expenditure programs, increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating revenues. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. See “Business — Government Regulations.” Future acquisitions may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the difficulty and expense of integrating acquired personnel into our business; • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; - 25 - Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a reasonable cost, or that such financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to operate acquired hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance. Future cost containment initiatives undertaken by private third-party payors may limit our future net operating revenues and profitability. Initiatives undertaken by major insurers and managed care companies to contain healthcare costs affect the profitability of our specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics. These payors attempt to control healthcare costs by contracting with hospitals and other healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend may continue and may limit reimbursements for healthcare services. If insurers or managed care companies from whom we receive substantial payments reduce the amounts they pay for services, our profit margins may decline, or we may lose patients if we choose not to renew our contracts with these insurers at lower rates. If we fail to maintain established relationships with the physicians in our markets, our net operating revenues may decrease. Our success is, in part, dependent upon the admissions and referral practices of the physicians in the communities our hospitals and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics serve, and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians. Physicians referring patients to our hospitals and clinics are generally not our employees and, in many of the markets that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals and are free to refer their patients to other providers. If we are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these physicians, our hospitals’ admissions and clinics’ businesses may decrease, and our net operating revenues may decline. Shortages in qualified nurses or therapists could increase our operating costs significantly. Our specialty hospitals are highly dependent on nurses for patient care and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics are highly dependant on therapists for patient care. The availability of qualified nurses and therapists nationwide has declined in recent years, and the salaries for nurses and therapists have risen accordingly. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain qualified nurses or therapists in the future. Additionally, the cost of attracting and retaining nurses and therapists may be higher than we anticipate, and as a result, our profitability could decline. Competition may limit our ability to acquire hospitals and clinics and adversely affect our growth. We have historically faced limited competition in acquiring specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics, but we may face heightened competition in the future. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the hospitals and clinics that would be suitable acquisition candidates for us. This could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or make our cost of acquisitions higher and therefore decrease our profitability. If we fail to compete effectively with other hospitals, clinics and healthcare providers, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. - 26 - Table of Contents The healthcare business is highly competitive, and we compete with other hospitals, rehabilitation clinics and other healthcare providers for patients. If we are unable to compete effectively in the specialty hospital and outpatient rehabilitation businesses, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. Many of our specialty hospitals operate in geographic areas where we compete with at least one other hospital that provides similar services. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics face competition from a variety of local and national outpatient rehabilitation providers. Other outpatient rehabilitation clinics in markets we serve may have greater name recognition and longer operating histories than our clinics. The managers of these clinics may also have stronger relationships with physicians in their communities, which could give them a competitive advantage for patient referrals. Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose key members of our management team. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on our ability to retain and motivate these individuals. The loss of the services of any of our senior officers or key employees, particularly our executive officers named in “Executive Officers and Directors of the Registrant,” could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Significant legal actions as well as the cost and possible lack of available insurance could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. We are also subject to lawsuits under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring the suits. See “Legal Proceedings.” We maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage. As a result of unfavorable pricing and availability trends in the professional liability insurance market and the insurance market in general, the cost and risk sharing components of professional liability coverage have changed dramatically. Many insurance underwriters have become more selective in the insurance limits and types of coverage they will provide as a result of rising settlement costs and the significant failures of some nationally known insurance underwriters. In some instances, insurance underwriters will no longer issue new policies in certain states that have a history of high medical malpractice awards. As a result, we have experienced substantial changes in our medical and professional malpractice insurance program. Among other things, in order to obtain malpractice insurance at a reasonable cost, we are required to assume substantial self-insured retentions for our professional liability claims. A self-insured retention is a minimum amount of damages and expenses (including legal fees) that we must pay for each claim. We use actuarial methods to determine the value of the losses that may occur within this self-insured retention level. Our insurance agreements require us to post letters of credit or set aside cash in a trust arrangement in an amount equal to the estimated losses that we assumed for previous policy years. Because of the high retention levels, we cannot predict with certainty the actual amount of the losses we will assume and pay. To the extent that subsequent claims information varies from loss estimates, the liabilities will be adjusted to reflect current loss data. There can be no assurance that in the future malpractice insurance will be available at a reasonable price or that we will not have to further increase our levels of self-insurance. In addition, our insurance coverage does not cover punitive damages and may not cover all claims against us. See “Business — Government Regulations — Other Healthcare Regulations” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Medical and Professional Malpractice Insurance.” - 27 - Table of Contents The interests of our principal stockholder may conflict with your interests. An investor group led by our sponsors owns substantially all of the outstanding equity securities of our parent. Welsh Carson controls a majority of the voting power of such outstanding equity securities and therefore ultimately controls all of our affairs and policies, including the election of our board of directors, the approval of certain actions such as amending our charter, commencing bankruptcy proceedings and taking certain corporate actions (including, without limitation, incurring debt, issuing stock, selling assets and engaging in mergers and acquisitions), and appointing members of our management. Welsh Carson’s interests in exercising control over our business may conflict with your interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 