Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That Could Affect Future Results We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Disruptions in the financial and insurance industries or the global economic crisis may materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenues have been derived from sales of our products and services to customers in the financial and insurance industries. The recent substantial disruptions in these industries may result in these customers deferring or cancelling future planned expenditures on our products and services. Further, consolidations and business failures in these industries could result in substantially reduced demand for our products and services. In addition, the disruptions in these industries and the concurrent international financial crisis may cause other potential customers to defer or cancel future purchases of our products and services as they seek to conserve resources in the face of economic turmoil and the drastically reduced availability of capital in the equity and debt markets. Any of these developments, or the combination of these developments, may materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition in future periods. We have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve and sustain profitability. We incurred net losses of $13.8 million, $13.1 million and $8.7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand the breadth of our product and services offerings, focus on recurring revenue streams, and explore organic and inorganic growth opportunities. In addition, as we maintain our focus on our on-demand business, we expect our perpetual license 11 Table of Contents revenues will continue to decline, adversely affecting our overall gross margins. At the same time, the growth rate of our Net Annual Contract Value for on-demand services has declined in recent quarters, which will adversely affect the growth of our on-demand revenues in future periods. To achieve profitability, we must increase our total revenues, improve our gross margin on recurring and services revenues and effectively manage our expenses. In the fourth quarter of 2007 we undertook a restructuring to reduce our workforce by 8% in order to better align expenses with expected revenues. Since then, we have taken additional steps to reduce our cost structure including additional headcount reductions, the latest of which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2008. In connection with the restructurings, we incurred expenses of $1.5 million in 2007 and $1.6 million in 2008. We do not expect to realize the full benefits of these latest measures until the second quarter of 2009. We are continuing to monitor our expenses in an effort to further optimize our performance for the long-term. However, there is no assurance that these steps to manage our expenses will be adequate. Consequently, we may be required to incur additional restructuring expenses in the future and, even with these or any future actions, we cannot be sure that we will achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we cannot increase our total revenues and improve our gross margins our future results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. If our on-demand offering fails to achieve broad market acceptance, or if we are unable to consistently offer this service on a profitable basis, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources to expand, market, and implement our on-demand offering. We have only achieved positive gross margins on our on-demand offering since the first quarter of 2008. Previously, we had realized a negative gross margin on sales of this service and there can be no assurance that we will be able to offer our on-demand service profitably in the future. As we continue to promote our on-demand service, there is a risk of confusion in the market over the alternative ways to purchase our software, which could result in delayed sales. In addition, with our decision to increase our focus on our on-demand service, customers that might otherwise purchase a perpetual license may instead opt for our on-demand service, possibly late in the sales cycle. To the extent this service results in a shift away from perpetual licenses, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected in the short-term as revenues for on-demand services are recognized over the life of the agreement with each of our customers and the professional services associated with the implementations are less than those associated with perpetual licenses. Any such shift will also have a longer term adverse effect on operating results, as our on-demand offering is expected to continue to generate much lower margins than our perpetual license sales. Historically, our on-demand contracts generally provided for payment by the customer only after the customer went into production. Although we have changed that model so that our on-demand contracts now generally provide for payment and terms commencing as of the effective date of the contract, these terms remain subject to customer-specific requirements. For those contracts for which we will not recognize revenue until the customer has commenced production use of the service, which can be months after the contract is signed, our revenue recognition will be delayed and our operating results will be adversely affected. If our on-demand service does not achieve broad market acceptance, or if we are unable to offer this service profitably, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly license revenues remain largely dependent on a relatively small number of license transactions involving sales of our products to new customers, and any delay or failure in closing one or more of these transactions could adversely affect our results of operations. Our quarterly license revenues are typically dependent upon the closing of a relatively small number of transactions involving perpetual licensing of our products to new customers. As such, variations in the rate and timing of conversion of sales prospects into license revenues could result in our failure to meet revenue objectives or achieve or maintain profitability in future periods. In addition, failure to meet all revenue recognition criteria for perpetual licenses has in the past resulted and may in the future result in deferral of license revenue into future periods. We generally recognize the bulk of our license revenues for a given sale either at the time we enter into the agreement and deliver the product, or over the period in which we perform any services that are essential to the functionality of the product. Unexpected changes in the number and size of transactions or other contractual terms late in the negotiation process or changes in the mix of contracts we enter into, including customers’ selection of our 12 Table of Contents on-demand solution (for which revenues are included in our recurring revenues and recognized ratably over future periods) in lieu of perpetual licenses, could therefore materially and adversely affect our revenues in a quarter. Typically, customers tend to gravitate toward perpetual or on-demand solutions with some crossover. We expect the level of crossover towards on-demand to increase, and thus decreasing our license revenues in future periods. Reductions in the amount of customers’ purchases of licenses or delays in recognition of revenues would adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot accurately predict customer subscription and maintenance renewal rates and the impact these renewal rates will have on our future revenues or operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our on-demand service or maintenance support for perpetual license transactions after the expiration of their initial subscription or maintenance period, which is typically 12 to 24 months, and some customers have elected not to renew. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer payees or renew for shorter contract lengths. We cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their dissatisfaction with our service and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. If our customers and any large customers in particular, do not renew their subscriptions for our on-demand service or maintenance support, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our on-demand service and maintenance support over the terms of the subscription and maintenance support agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize on-demand and maintenance revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription and maintenance support agreements, which are typically 12 to 24 months, although terms can range from one to 60 months. As a result, most of the recurring revenues we report in each quarter result from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription and maintenance agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions and maintenance in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our on-demand service may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and enhance our existing products. Failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products may adversely affect our operating results. The sales performance management software market is characterized by: • Rapid technological advances in hardware and software development; • evolving standards in computer hardware, software technology and communications infrastructure; • changing customer needs; and • frequent new product introductions and enhancements. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, achieve market acceptance and effectively respond to competitive product introductions, we must quickly identify emerging trends and requirements, accurately define and design enhancements and improvements for existing products and introduce new products and services. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results. Further, any new products we develop may not be introduced in a timely manner or available in a distribution model acceptable to our target markets and may therefore not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. For example, we recently introduced several new products that are only available through our on-demand services offering or through our relationship with salesforce.com. If one or both of these distribution 13 Table of Contents options are not accepted by customers in our target markets, these new products may not succeed and our future revenues may be adversely affected. If we are unable to quickly and successfully develop and distribute new products or enhance existing products or if we fail to position and price our products to meet market demand, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. The market for sales performance management software is still new and rapidly evolving and may not develop as we expect. All of our business is in the market for sales performance management software, which is a relatively new and rapidly evolving market. We believe one of our key challenges is to convince prospective customers of their need for our products and services and to persuade them that they should make purchases of our products and services a higher priority relative to other projects. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the number of organizations adopting sales performance management software as a solution to address the problems related to sales performance management. We have only recently begun to focus our business on this market opportunity. The market for sales performance management software may not develop as we expect, or at all. Even if a market does develop, our competitors may be more successful than we are in capturing the market. In either case, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable and are likely to continue to fluctuate substantially, which may harm our results of operations. Our revenues, particularly our license revenues, are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, beginning in the third quarter of 2007, we believe our sales of products to the financial services sector may have been adversely affected by the deterioration of the mortgage markets and corresponding adverse effects on the operating results of our potential customers. In addition, because of the current global financial crisis, we currently expect that our total revenues in the first quarter of 2009 will be slightly lower than our total revenues in the fourth quarter of 2008. We furthermore expect that our ongoing focus on our on-demand business may result in lower revenues from perpetual licenses and decreased customer expenditures on professional services. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Factors that may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate include: • Disruption in the financial and insurance industries and the global financial crisis, which may result in the deferral or cancellation of future purchases of our products and services; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchase and budget cycles and changes in their budgets for software and related purchases; • the priority our customers place on the purchase of our products as compared to other information technology and capital acquisitions; • competitive conditions in our industry, including new product introductions, product announcements and discounted pricing or special payment terms offered by our competitors; • customers’ selection of our on-demand solution, under which we recognize revenue as part of recurring revenues over the term of the agreement, in lieu of traditional perpetual license revenue, which is typically recognized in the quarter in which the transaction closes or as the products are implemented; • our ability to hire, train and retain appropriate sales and professional services staff; • varying size, timing and contractual terms of orders for our products, which may delay the recognition of revenues; • indeterminate and often lengthy sales cycles; 14 Table of Contents • changes in the mix of revenues attributable to higher-margin product license or recurring revenues as opposed to substantially lower-margin services and other revenues; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • merger and acquisition activities among our customers, which may alter their buying patterns, or failure of potential customers, which may reduce demand for our products and services; • our ability to satisfy revenue recognition criteria or timely complete our service obligations related to product sales; • the extent to which our customer’s needs for professional services are reduced as a result of product improvements as well as implementation efficiencies in our on-demand offering over traditional on-premise implementations; • the utilization rate of our professional services personnel and the degree to which we use third-party consulting services; • changes in the average selling prices of our products; • the rates the market will bear for our professional services and our ability to efficiently and profitably perform such services based on those market rates; • timing of product development and new product initiatives; • increased operating expenses associated with channel sales and increased product development efforts; and • customer concerns regarding the impact of implementing large, enterprise-wide deployments of products, including our products. We might not be able to manage our future growth efficiently or profitably. We experienced significant growth in our overall operations in 2007 and in our on-demand operations in 2008. We are working to continue this growth. If growth continues, we will likely need to expand the size of our staff, grow our related operations and strengthen our financial and accounting controls. This expansion may increase our expenses, and there is no assurance that our infrastructure would be sufficiently scalable to efficiently manage the growth that we may experience. For example, if we increased sales of on-demand services, we could experience a significant increase in demand for our on-demand support personnel and professional services personnel to implement our solutions. If we are unable to address these additional demands on our resources, our operating results and growth might suffer. Even if we are able to hire additional personnel, they will require a substantial period of training, and there is no guarantee that any new personnel will be as highly qualified as our existing personnel. As a result, certain implementations of our solution and ongoing support for our on-demand services may not meet our customers’ expectations, our reputation could be harmed and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Also, if we continue to expand our operations, our systems, procedures or controls might not be adequate to support expansion. Further, to the extent we invest in additional resources and growth in our revenues does not ensue, our operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to further leverage our operating cost investments as a percentage of revenues our ability to generate profits will be adversely impacted. Our service revenues produce substantially lower gross margins than our license and recurring revenues, and periodic variations in the proportional relationship between services revenues and higher margin license and recurring revenues have harmed, and may continue to harm, our overall gross margins. Our services revenues, which include fees for consulting, implementation and training, were 46%, 49% and 40% of our revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our services revenues have substantially lower gross margins than our license and recurring revenues. Historically, services revenues as a percentage of total revenues have varied significantly from period to period due to a number of circumstances including fluctuations in licensing and recurring revenues, changes in the average 15 Table of Contents selling prices for our products and services and the effectiveness and appeal of competitive service providers. In addition, the volume and profitability of services can depend in large part upon: • Competitive pricing pressure on the rates that we can charge for our professional services; • increases or decreases in the number of services projects being performed on a fixed bid or acceptance basis that may defer recognition of revenue; • the timing and amount of any remediation services related to professional services warranty claims; • the complexity of the customers’ information technology environments; • the priority and resources customers place on their implementation projects; and • the extent to which outside consulting organizations provide services directly to customers. As an example of competitive pressure on our services offerings, many of our potential customers are outsourcing technology projects offshore to take advantage of lower labor costs. Additionally, market rates for the types of professional services we offer may be greater or less than the rates we charge domestically depending on the geographic regions where the services are performed. Moreover, as we expand our international services operations, revenues may be impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Consequently, as we extend our customer base internationally, we expect greater variation in the proportion of services revenues compared to our other higher margin license and recurring revenues, which may increase or erode margins for our service revenues and our overall gross margins. The loss of key personnel or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the abilities and effectiveness of our personnel, and in particular our president and chief executive officer and our other executive officers. All of our existing personnel, including our executive officers, are employed on an “at-will” basis. If we lose or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise competes with us, it could impair our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Additionally, if we are unable to quickly hire qualified replacements for our executive and other key positions, our ability to execute our business plan could be harmed. Even if we can quickly hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. Our products have long sales cycles, which makes it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our results. The sales cycles for perpetual licenses of our products have historically been between six and twelve months, and longer in some cases, to complete. The sales cycles for our on-demand solutions are still evolving, and as we continue to broaden our on-demand offerings it is difficult to determine with any certainty how long our sales cycles for our on-demand solutions will be in the future. Consequently, it remains difficult to predict the quarter in which a particular sale will close and to plan expenditures accordingly. Moreover, because license sales are often completed in the final two weeks of a quarter, this difficulty may be compounded. Global economic uncertainty and corporate cost-cutting are likely to increase the difficulty of predicting license and on-demand sales at least during the first half of 2009 and likely beyond. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and its purchase of our products and services is relatively long due to several factors, including: • The complex nature of our products and services; • the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services; • the requirement that some potential customers may need to invest significant financial and other resources in connection with the purchase and implementation of our products and services; • budget cycles of our potential customers that affect the timing of purchases; 16 Table of Contents • customer requirements for competitive evaluation and internal approval before purchasing our products and services; • potential delays of purchases due to announcements or planned introductions of new products and services by us or our competitors; and • the lengthy approval processes of our potential customers, many of which are large organizations. The failure to complete sales of perpetual licenses in a particular quarter would reduce our revenues in that quarter, as well as any subsequent quarters over which revenues for the sale would likely be recognized. Given that our license revenues are dependent on a relatively small number of transactions, any unexpected lengthening of the sales cycle in general or for one or more large orders would adversely affect the timing and amount of our revenues. The failure to complete sales of our on-demand solution in a particular quarter will defer revenues into subsequent quarters as revenue from our on-demand services are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. In addition, our management makes assumptions and estimates as to the timing and amount of future revenues in budgeting future operating costs and capital expenditures based on estimated closing dates and potential dollar amounts of transactions. Management aggregates these estimates periodically to generate our sales forecasts and then evaluates the forecasts to identify trends. Because our operating expenses are based upon anticipated revenue trends and because a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, a delay in the recognition of revenue from one or more license transactions could cause significant variations in our operating results and could result in losses substantially in excess of anticipated amounts. Professional services comprise a substantial portion of our revenues and, to the extent our customers choose to use other services providers, our revenues and operating results may decline. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the performance of professional services, primarily implementation, configuration, training and other consulting services in connection with new product licenses and other ongoing projects. However, there are a number of third-party service providers available that offer these professional services, and we do not require that our customers use our professional services. To the extent our customers choose to use third-party service providers instead of us or perform these professional services themselves, our revenues and operating income may decline significantly. Deployment of our products frequently requires substantial technical implementation and support by us or third-party service providers. Failure to meet these requirements could cause a decline or delay in recognition of our revenues and an increase in our expenses. Deployments of our products frequently require a substantial degree of technical and logistical expertise for both on premise and on-demand implementations. Moreover, whether for our on-demand or on premise implementations, our customers can require large, enterprise-wide deployments of our products. It may be difficult for us to manage these deployments, including the timely allocation of personnel and resources by us and our customers. Failure to successfully manage the process could harm our reputation both generally and with specific customers and may cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the number of new customers that purchase our products, each of which could adversely affect our revenues and increase our technical support and litigation costs. For example, in 2008 we incurred a loss on a contract of approximately $1.6 million due to a single customer dispute for a project. Our software license customers have the option to receive implementation, maintenance, training and consulting services from our internal professional services organization or from outside consulting organizations. We may increase our use of third-party service providers to help meet our implementation and service obligations. If we use a greater number of third-party service providers than we do currently, we will be required to negotiate additional arrangements, which may result in lower gross margins for maintenance or service revenues. Moreover, third-party service providers may not be as skilled in implementing or maintaining our products as our internal professional staff. If implementation services are not provided successfully and in a timely manner, our customers may experience increased costs and errors, which may result in customer dissatisfaction and costly remediation and 17 Table of Contents litigation, any of which could adversely impact our reputation, operating results and financial condition. We make estimates of sales return reserves related to potential future requirements to provide remediation services in connection with current period service revenues, which are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements. If actual remediation services exceed our estimates we could be required to take additional charges, which could be material. Acquisitions and investments present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. We may in the future acquire or make investments in other complementary companies, products, services and technologies. For example, in January 2008 we acquired Compensation Technologies LLC and hired its president and chief executive officer, Robert Conti, to fill our vacant senior vice president, client services position in an effort to expand our services offerings and improve our services related operations. Acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including the following: • We may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; • we may find that the acquired business or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the business or assets, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate a future impairment charge; • we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; • there may be customer confusion where our products overlap with those of the acquired business; • we may become exposed to liabilities associated with the sale of the acquired business’ products and services; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues or the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; • we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; • acquisitions may result in litigation from terminated employees or third-parties; and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket expenses. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial condition and operating results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash or incur substantial debt to consummate such acquisitions. If we incur substantial debt, it could result in material limitations on the conduct of our business. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options, existing stockholders may be diluted. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs (such as acquired in-process research and development) and restructuring charges. They may also result in the acquisition of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, including sales, professional services, and engineering personnel, our growth may be impaired. To expand our business successfully and maintain a high level of quality, we need to continually recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled employees in all areas of our business, including sales, professional services and 18 Table of Contents engineering personnel. In particular, if we are unable to hire and retain talented professional services employees with the skills, and in the locations, we require, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain of our labor needs. As our customer base increases and as we continue to evaluate and modify our organizational structure to increase efficiency, we are likely to experience staffing constraints in connection with the deployment of trained and experienced professional services resources capable of implementing, configuring and maintaining our software for existing customers looking to migrate to more current versions of our products as well as new customers requiring installation support. Moreover, as a company focused on the development of complex products, we are often in need of additional software developers and engineers. Our latest product features and functionality may require existing customers to migrate to more recent versions of our software. Moreover, we may choose to or be compelled to discontinue maintenance support for older versions of our software products, forcing customers to upgrade their software in order to continue receiving maintenance support. If existing customers fail to migrate or delay migration to newer versions of our software, our revenues may be harmed. We plan to pursue sales of new product modules to existing perpetual license customers of our TrueComp software. To take advantage of new features and functionality in our latest modules, many of our perpetual license customers will need to migrate to a more current version of our products. We also expect to periodically terminate maintenance support on older versions of our products for various reasons including, without limitation, termination of support by third-party software vendors whose products complement ours or upon which we are dependent. Termination of maintenance may force our perpetual license customers to migrate to more current versions of our software. Regardless of the reason, upgrading to more current versions of our products is likely to involve additional cost, which our customers may delay or decline to incur. If a sufficient number of our customers do not migrate to newer versions of our software, our continued maintenance support opportunities and our ability to sell additional products to these customers, and as a result, our revenues and operating income, may possibly be harmed significantly. If we do not compete effectively, our revenues may not grow and could decline. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition from a number of software companies. We compete principally with vendors of Sales Performance Management (SPM) software, Enterprise Incentive Management (EIM) software, enterprise resource planning software, and customer relationship management software. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers or changing industry standards. Increased competition may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our enterprise resource planning competitors and other potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources. Many also have a larger installed base of users, longer operating histories or greater name recognition. Some of our competitors’ products may also be more effective at performing particular SPM or EIM system functions or may be more customized for particular customer needs in a given market. Even if our competitors provide products with less SPM or EIM system functionality than our products, these products may incorporate other capabilities, such as recording and accounting for transactions, customer orders or inventory management data. A product that performs these functions, as well as some of the functions of our software solutions, may be appealing to some customers because it would reduce the number of software applications used to run their business. Our products must be integrated with software provided by a number of our existing or potential competitors. These competitors could alter their products in ways that inhibit integration with our products, or they could deny or delay our access to advance software releases, which would restrict our ability to adapt our products for integration with their new releases and could result in the loss of both sales opportunities and renewals of on-demand services and maintenance. 19 Table of Contents A substantial majority of our product revenues are derived from our TrueComp software application and related products and services, and a decline in sales of these products and services could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial majority of our product revenues from our TrueComp product and related products and services. Because we have historically sold our product licenses on a perpetual basis and delivered new versions and enhancements to customers who purchase maintenance contracts, our future license revenues are substantially dependent on new customer sales. Our on-demand solution still consists substantially of our TrueComp product. In addition, substantially all of our TrueInformation product sales have historically been made in connection with TrueComp sales. As a result of these factors, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for TrueComp. Accordingly, if demand for TrueComp and related products and services decline significantly, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If we reduce prices, alter our payment terms or modify our products or services in order to compete successfully, our margins and operating results may be adversely affected. The intensely competitive market in which we do business may require us to reduce our prices and/or modify our traditional licensing revenue generation strategies in ways that may delay revenue recognition on all or a portion of our licensing transactions. For example, the introduction of our on-demand offering was our response to changing market conditions. Revenues from the on-demand offering, which is sold on a subscription basis, are recognized ratably over time, as opposed to perpetual license revenues, which we generally recognize in the quarter in which the transaction closes or as the product is implemented. If our competitors offer deep discounts on competitive products or services, we may be required to lower prices or offer other terms more favorable to our customers in order to compete successfully. Some of our competitors may bundle their software products that compete with ours with their other products and services for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products or cause us to modify our existing market strategies for our products and services. If we cannot offset price reductions and other terms more favorable to our customers with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or decreased spending, then the reduced revenues resulting from lower prices or revenue recognition delays would adversely affect our margins and operating results. Our products depend on the technology of third parties licensed to us that are necessary for our applications to operate and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses, errors in such software, or discontinuation or updates to such software could result in increased costs or delayed sales of our products. We license technology from several software providers for our rules engine, analytics, web viewer and quota management application, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so for these features and from these or other providers in connection with future products. We also rely on generally available third-party software such as WebSphere and WebLogic to run our applications. Any of these software applications may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or new versions may be released that are incompatible with our prior or existing software releases. Some of the products could be difficult to replace, and developing or integrating new software with our products could require months or years of design and engineering work. The loss or modification of any of these technologies could result in delays in the license of our products until equivalent technology is developed or, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. For example, we entered into an agreement to license our quota management software application from Hyperion Solutions in the third quarter of 2006. Hyperion Solutions was acquired in April 2007 by one of our competitors, Oracle. In April 2008, we received notification from Oracle that it was terminating our arrangement. We do not expect the termination of our agreement with Hyperion to have a material adverse impact on our revenues or obligations to our customers. In addition, our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products and, therefore, any undetected errors in these products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions and/or injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software that requires us to enter into license agreements with third parties could result in new or higher royalty payments. 20 Table of Contents Errors in our products could be costly to correct, adversely affect our reputation and impair our ability to sell our products. Our products are complex and, accordingly, they may contain errors, or “bugs,” that could be detected at any point in their product life cycle. While we continually test our products for errors and work with customers to identify and correct bugs, errors in our products are likely to be found in the future. Any errors could be extremely costly to correct, materially and adversely affect our reputation and impair our ability to sell our products. Moreover, customers relying on our products to calculate and pay incentive compensation may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products in general. If we incur substantial costs to correct any product errors, our operating margins would be adversely affected. Because our customers depend on our software for their critical business functions, any interruptions could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products; • product liability suits against us; • diversion of development resources; and • substantially greater service and warranty costs. Our revenues might be harmed by resistance to adoption of our software by information technology departments. Some potential customers have already made a substantial investment in third-party or internally developed software designed to model, administer, analyze and report on pay-for-performance programs. These companies may be reluctant to abandon these investments in favor of our software. In addition, information technology departments of potential customers may resist purchasing our software solutions for a variety of other reasons, particularly the potential displacement of their historical role in creating and running software and concerns that packaged software products are not sufficiently customizable for their enterprises. We may lose sales opportunities and our business may be harmed if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to implement and sell our products. We have relationships with third-party consulting firms, systems integrators and software vendors. These third parties may provide us with customer referrals, cooperate with us in the design, sales and/or marketing of our products, provide valuable insights into market demands and provide our customers with systems implementation services or overall program management. However, we do not have formal agreements governing our ongoing relationship with certain of these third-party providers and the agreements we do have generally do not include obligations with respect to generating sales opportunities or cooperating on future business. In addition, certain of our strategic relationships require that we pay substantial commissions on sales of our products, which could adversely affect our operating margins. We also have and are considering strategic relationships that are new or unusual for us and which can pose additional risks. For example, in January 2008 we announced an exclusive reseller relationship with IMS Health in connection with our on-demand services in certain pharmaceutical and healthcare markets. While exclusive reseller arrangements offer the advantage of leveraging larger sales organizations than our own to sell our products, they also require considerable time and effort on our part to train and support our strategic partner’s personnel, and require our strategic partners to properly motivate and incentivize their sales force so that the exclusivity does not prevent us from succeeding in the applicable markets, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Should any of these third parties go out of business or choose not to work with us, we may be forced to develop new capabilities internally, incurring significant expense and adversely affecting our operating results. Any of our third-party providers may offer products of other companies, including products that compete with our products. If we do not successfully and efficiently establish, maintain, and expand our industry relationships with influential market participants, we could lose sales and service opportunities, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Breaches of security or failure to safeguard customer data could create the perception that our services are not secure, causing customers to discontinue or reject the use of our services and potentially subject us to significant liability. Implementing, monitoring and maintaining adequate security safeguards may be costly. We provide an on-demand service whereby our customers access our software and transmit confidential data, including personally identifiable individual data of their employees, agents, and customers over the Internet. We also store data provided to us by our customers on servers in a third-party data warehouse. In addition, we may have access to confidential and private individual data as part of our professional services organization activities, including implementation, maintenance and support of our software for perpetual license customers. If we do not adequately safeguard the confidential information imported into our software or otherwise provided to us by our customers, or if third parties penetrate our systems or security and misappropriate our customers’ confidential information, our reputation may be damaged and we may be sued and incur substantial damages in connection with such disclosures or misappropriations. Even if it is determined that our security measures were adequate, the damage to our reputation may cause customers and potential customers to reconsider the use of our software and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, many of our customers are subject to heightened security obligations regarding the personally identifiable information of their customers. In the United States, these heightened obligations particularly affect the financial services and insurance sectors, which are subject to stringent controls over personal information under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. In addition, the European Union Directive on Data Protection creates international obligations on the protection of personal data that typically exceed security requirements mandated in the United States. The security measures we have implemented and may need to implement, monitor and maintain in the future to satisfy the requirements of our customers, many of which are in the financial services and insurance sectors, may be substantial and involve significant time and effort, which are typically not chargeable to our customers. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenues and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success and ability to compete is significantly dependent on the proprietary technology embedded in our products. We rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We cannot protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect its unauthorized use. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and/or reverse engineer our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed programs may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent that we engage in international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information increases. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and consultants and with the customers and corporations with whom we have strategic relationships. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to a protracted infringement claim or one that results in a significant damage award. From time to time, we receive claims that our products or business infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of third parties and our competitors or other third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. We believe that claims of infringement are likely to increase as the functionality of our 22 Table of Contents products expands and as new products are introduced. A claim may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. If we were subject to a claim of infringement, regardless of the merit of the claim or our defenses, the claim could: • require costly litigation to resolve; • absorb significant management time; • cause us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements; • require us to discontinue the sale of all or a portion of our products; • require us to indemnify our customers or third-party systems integrators; or • require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our products. Our inclusion of open source software in our products may expose us to liability or require release of our source code. We use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more in the future. From time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. In addition, some open source software is provided under licenses that require that proprietary software, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license and thus freely available. While we take steps to minimize the risk that our software, when combined with open source software, would become subject to open source licenses, few courts have interpreted open source licenses. As a result, the manner in which these licenses will be enforced is unclear. If our software were to become subject to open source licenses, our ability to commercialize our products and our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could impair our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our system integrators and other third-party service vendors and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We expect to continue expanding our international operations but we do not have substantial experience in international markets, and may not achieve the expected results. We expanded our international operations in 2006, 2007 and 2008, and expect to continue expanding these operations in 2009. International expansion may require substantial financial resources and a significant amount of attention from our management. International operations involve a variety of risks, particularly: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws and tariffs; • differing abilities to protect our intellectual property rights; • differing labor regulations; • greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products; • greater difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing foreign operations; • possible political and economic instability; and • fluctuating exchange rates. 23 Table of Contents We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services abroad. If we invest substantial time and resources to grow our international operations and fail to do so successfully and on a timely basis, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. Our use of third-party international product development and support services may prove difficult to manage or of inadequate quality to allow us to realize our cost reduction goals and produce new products to drive growth. We have begun using an India-based firm to provide certain software engineering services and support and we expect to expand our use of offshore third-party technical services and support in the future. We believe that the use of offshore engineering and support services will allow us to cost-effectively increase our product development efforts while concurrently maintaining and supporting our existing products. We have limited experience in managing development and support of our products by offshore contractors, and may not be able to maintain acceptable standards of quality in support or product development. If we are unable to successfully maintain product development and support quality through our efforts with international third-party service providers, our attempts to reduce costs and drive growth through new products may be negatively impacted which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our investment portfolio may be impaired by further deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash equivalent and investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 consists of investment grade auction rate securities and corporate notes and obligations. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, our auction rate securities with a total estimated fair value of approximately $3.8 million may pose risks arising from liquidity concerns. Liquidity for these securities is typically provided by an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually every 28 days. Therefore, because of the short interest rate reset period, the Company has historically recorded them as current available-for-sale securities. However, beginning in late February 2008, these auction rate securities failed to reprice, resulting in our continuing to hold these securities. Each of these securities had been subject to auction processes for which there had been insufficient bidders on the scheduled rollover dates. These failed auctions result in a lack of liquidity in the securities, but do not affect the underlying collateral of the securities. Due to the liquidity risk, as of December 31, 2008, we classified these auction rate securities as long-term investments on our consolidated balance sheet. These investments are all education municipal securities substantially collateralized by the U.S. Department of Education Federal Family Education Loan program guarantee. None of the auction rate securities held by the Company are mortgage-backed debt obligations. All of these investments carry AAA credit ratings from one or more of the major credit rating agencies. Nonetheless, due to the uncertain nature of the market for these securities as well as the underlying collateral, we are unable to predict whether the value of these securities or the collateral, or both, may deteriorate further. Consequently, it is possible that the securities, collateral, or both may lose some or all of their value, resulting in a material loss to us. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Our stock price is likely to remain volatile. The trading price of our common stock has in the past and may in the future be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described in this section. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts, and there frequently occurs an imbalance between supply and demand in the public trading market for our common stock due to limited trading volumes. Our stock repurchase program may increase this 24 Table of Contents imbalance. Investors should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and should purchase our common stock only if they can withstand significant losses. Other factors that affect the volatility of our stock include: • Our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • significant sales or distributions by existing investors coupled with a lack of trading volume for our stock; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, results of operations, projections, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in our management team; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; and • developments with respect to intellectual property rights. Additionally, some companies with volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action lawsuits filed against them. For example, in 2004 we were sued in connection with the decline in our stock price following the announcements of disappointing operating results and changes in senior management. Any future suits such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public trading market (or in private transactions) including sales by our executive officers, directors or venture capital funds, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to drop. Provisions in our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms, which means that replacing a majority of our directors would require at least two annual meetings. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and would not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which would require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. In addition, we are a party to a stockholder rights agreement, which effectively prohibits a person from acquiring more than 15% (subject to certain exceptions) of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Furthermore, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. All of these factors make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it does not believe is in our strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, you could lose the opportunity to sell your shares at a favorable price. 