Item 1A. Risk Factors NSTAR’s future performance is subject to a variety of risks, including those described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business could be harmed and the market price of NSTAR’s common shares could decline. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. NSTAR’s electric and gas operations are highly regulated, and any adverse regulatory changes could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and its financial position. NSTAR’s electric and gas operations, including the rates charged, are regulated by the FERC and the DPU. In addition, NSTAR’s accounting policies are prescribed by GAAP, the FERC, and the DPU. Adverse regulatory changes could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and its financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Potential municipalization or technological developments may adversely affect the Company’s regulated electricity and natural gas businesses. Under Massachusetts law, no other entity may provide electric or gas delivery service to retail customers within NSTAR’s service territory without the written consent of NSTAR Electric and/or NSTAR Gas. One exception is municipalization, whereby a city or town establishes its own municipal-owned utility. Although not a trend, NSTAR’s operating utility companies could be exposed to municipalization risk, whereby a municipality could acquire the electric or natural gas delivery assets located in that city or town and take over the customer delivery service, thereby reducing NSTAR’s revenues. Any such action would require numerous legal and regulatory consents and approvals. Municipalization would require that NSTAR be compensated for its assets assumed. In addition, there is also the risk that technological developments could lead to more wide-spread use of distributed generation among NSTAR’s customer base reducing such customers’ use of NSTAR’s utility system. Changes in environmental laws and regulations affecting NSTAR’s business could increase the Company’s costs or curtail its activities. NSTAR and its subsidiaries are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations that are currently in effect, including those related to the handling, disposal, and treatment of hazardous materials. Changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs, all of which could have an adverse impact on NSTAR’s results of operations. The Company may be required to conduct environmental remediation activities for power generating sites and other potentially unidentified sites. NSTAR is subject to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving environmental remediation activities for power generating sites previously owned and other potentially unidentified sites. NSTAR divested all of its regulated generating assets under terms that generally require the buyer to assume all responsibility for past and present environmental harm. Based on NSTAR’s current assessment of its environmental responsibilities, existing legal requirements and regulatory policies, NSTAR does not believe that its known environmental remediation responsibilities will have a material adverse effect on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, discovery of currently unknown conditions at existing sites, identification of additional waste sites or changes in environmental regulation, could have a material adverse impact on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. NSTAR is subject to operational risk that could cause us to incur substantial costs and liabilities. NSTAR’s business, which involves the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity that is used as an energy source by customers, is subject to various operational risks, including incidents that expose the Company to potential claims for property damages or personal injuries beyond the scope of NSTAR’s insurance coverage, and equipment failures that could result in performance below assumed levels. For example, operational performance below established target benchmark levels could cause NSTAR to incur penalties imposed by the DPU, up to a maximum of two and one-half percent of transmission and distribution revenues, under applicable Service Quality Indicators. Increases in interest rates due to financial market conditions or changes in the Company’s credit ratings, could have an adverse impact on NSTAR’s access to capital markets at favorable rates, or at all, and could otherwise increase NSTAR’s costs of doing business. NSTAR frequently accesses the capital markets to finance its working capital requirements, capital expenditures and to meet its long-term debt maturity obligations. Increased interest rates, or adverse changes in the Company’s credit ratings or further deterioration in the availability of credit, would increase NSTAR’s cost of borrowing and other costs that could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows and 13 Table of Contents ultimately have an adverse impact on the market price of NSTAR’s common shares. In addition, an adverse change in the Company’s credit ratings could increase borrowing costs, trigger requirements that the Company obtain additional security for performance, such as a letter of credit, related to its energy procurement agreements. Refer to the accompanying Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for a further discussion. NSTAR’s electric and gas businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and have seasonal variations. In addition, severe natural events and disasters could adversely affect the Company. Sales of electricity and natural gas to residential and commercial customers are influenced by temperature fluctuations. Significant fluctuations in heating or cooling degree days could have a material impact on energy sales for any given period. In addition, extremely severe storms, such as hurricanes and ice storms, could cause damage to NSTAR’s facilities that may require additional costs to repair and have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. To the extent possible, NSTAR’s rate regulated subsidiaries would seek recovery of these costs through the regulatory process. An economic downturn, increased costs of energy supply, and customers’ conservation efforts could adversely affect energy consumption and could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation measures. These conditions could adversely impact the level of energy sales and result in less demand for energy delivery. A recession or a prolonged lag of a subsequent recovery could have an adverse effect on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The ability of NSTAR to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to NSTAR. As a holding company, NSTAR does not have any operating activity and therefore is substantially dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and from external borrowings at variable rates of interest to provide the cash necessary for repayment of debt obligations, to pay administrative costs, to meet contractual obligations that may not be met by NSTAR’s subsidiaries and to pay common share dividends to NSTAR’s shareholders. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries. These laws and regulations may hinder the Company’s ability to access funds that NSTAR may need to make payments on its obligations. As the Holding company’s sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external borrowings, the ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders will be dependent upon cash flows of NSTAR’s subsidiaries. NSTAR’s subsidiaries do have certain limitations that could impact the payment of dividends to the Holding company. Refer to the “Sources of Additional Capital and Financial Covenant Requirements” section of the accompanying Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information. NSTAR’s electric and gas operations may be impacted if generation supply or its transportation or transmission availability is limited or unreliable. NSTAR’s electric and natural gas delivery businesses are reliant on transportation and transmission facilities that the Company does not own or control. The Company’s ability to provide energy delivery services depends on the operations and facilities of third parties, including the independent system operator, electric generators that supply NSTAR’s customers’ energy requirements and natural gas pipeline operators from which the Company receives delivery of its natural gas supply. Should NSTAR’s ability to receive electric or natural gas supply be disrupted due either to operational issues or to inadequacy of transmission capacity, it could impact the 14 Table of Contents Company’s ability to serve its customers. It could also force NSTAR to secure alternative supply at significantly higher costs. Financial market performance and other changes may decrease the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans’ assets and could require additional funding beyond historic levels. A sustained decline in the global financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the value of NSTAR’s pension and postretirement benefit plans’ assets. This situation may increase the Company’s benefit plans’ funding requirements. NSTAR will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger with NU is pending that could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. As discussed above in Item 1 “Business,” NSTAR is party to a Merger Agreement with NU. Before the merger may be completed, the parties must satisfy all conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, including obtaining shareholder approval in connection with the proposed transaction and receipt of various regulatory approvals. It is possible that uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers, customers and others may have an adverse effect on NSTAR. These uncertainties may impair NSTAR’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause suppliers and others that deal with NSTAR to seek to change existing business relationships. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of the companies may place a significant burden on NSTAR’s management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the merger integration process could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts NSTAR, without NU’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and dispositions and taking other specified actions. Under certain conditions these restrictions may prevent the Company from pursuing certain acquisitions or dispositions and making other changes to NSTAR’s business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. NSTAR may be unable to obtain the approvals required to complete the merger in the anticipated time frame, or at all, or such approvals may contain material restrictions or conditions. The merger is subject to the approval of various government agencies, including the DPU, FERC, and the U.S. Department of Justice. Such approvals may impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms of the merger, including restrictions on the business, operations or financial performance of the combined company. These conditions or changes could also delay or increase the cost of the merger or limit the revenues of the combined company. Pending litigation against NSTAR and NU could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or a judgment resulting in the payment of damages if the merger is completed. In connection with the merger, purported shareholders of NSTAR have filed class action lawsuits against NSTAR, NU and other defendants. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. The outcome of any such litigation is uncertain. If a dismissal is not granted or a settlement is not reached, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to NSTAR, including any costs associated with NU and the trustees and officers of either company in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim may adversely affect NSTAR’s or the combined company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 1. “Business” for a full description of the litigation relating to the merger. 15 Table of Contents Failure to complete the merger with NU could negatively impact NSTAR’s future business and financial results. Satisfying the conditions of the Merger Agreement and completing the merger may take longer than expected and could cost more than NSTAR expects. NSTAR must pay its own incurred costs related to the merger, including legal, accounting and other professional fees. NSTAR cannot make any assurances that it will be able to satisfy all the conditions to the merger or succeed in any litigation brought in connection with the merger. If the merger with NU is not completed, the Company’s financial results, share price and credit ratings may be adversely affected. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both NSTAR and NU, including the right to terminate the Merger Agreement if the merger is not consummated on or before October 16, 2011 (subject to a six month extension if regulatory approvals are pending) and if the approval of the shareholders of either NSTAR or NU is not obtained. The Merger Agreement further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, NSTAR or NU may be required to pay to the other a termination fee of $135 million and reimburse the other party for expenses up to $35 million. If completed, the merger with NU may not achieve its intended results. NSTAR entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether NSTAR’s businesses can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company. Executive Officers of Registrant Identification of Executive Officers Name of Officer Position and Business Experience Years inCurrentPosition Years asan Officer Age atDecember 31, 2010 Thomas J. May Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and an NSTAR Trustee 16 24 63 James J. Judge Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 15 15 54 Douglas S. Horan Senior Vice President - Strategy, Law and Policy, Secretary and General Counsel 15 15 61 Joseph R. Nolan, Jr. Senior Vice President - Customer & Corporate Relations 10 10 47 Werner J. Schweiger Senior Vice President - Operations 9 9 51 Christine M. Carmody Senior Vice President - Human Resources Previously Vice President of Organizational Effectiveness 3 3 47 Robert J. Weafer, Jr. Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 22 22 63 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 16 Table of Contents 