ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other related laws provide a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. This Form 10-K, our Annual Report to Stockholders, any Form 10-Q or Form 8-K of ours, or any other oral or written statements made by us or on our behalf, may include forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of such terms and phrases as “intend,” “goal,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “projections,” “plans,” “anticipate,” “should,” “designed to,” “foreseeable future,” “believe,” “confident,” “think,” “scheduled,” “outlook,” “guidance” and similar expressions. This list of indicative terms and phrases is not intended to be all-inclusive. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they were made. We do not intend, and are not undertaking any duty or obligation, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect developments or information obtained after the date of this Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to (a) the general economic, political, military and competitive conditions in the United States and other markets where we operate; (b) changes in capital availability or costs, such as changes in interest rates, market perceptions of the industry in which we operate, security ratings or general stock market fluctuations; (c) changes in the regulatory framework governing telecommunication services and equipment in the U.S. and other countries; (d) workforce factors; (e) authoritative generally accepted accounting principles or policy changes from such standard-setting bodies as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); (f) the impact of corporate governance, accounting and securities law reforms by the United States Congress, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange; (g) risks related to production and inventory, including warranty costs, obsolescence and other inventory valuation charges, excess capacity and material and labor costs; and (h) the factors set forth below. Competitive Risks We are dependent on a limited number of key customers or distributors for a substantial portion of the net sales in each of our business segments. A limited number of key customers or distributors account for a substantial portion of our net sales. • Original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) Sales to OEMs, who supply equipment to telecommunication service providers, primarily originate in our ACCG and WNS segments. Sales to our top three OEM customers represented 22% of our 2008 consolidated net sales. • Wireless service providers Sales to wireless service providers primarily originate in our ACCG and WNS segments. Sales to our top three wireless service provider customers represented 8% of our consolidated net sales during 2008. • Distributors, system integrators and value-added resellers Sales to distributors, system integrators and value-added resellers primarily originate in our Enterprise segment. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales to the top three distributors, system integrators and value-added resellers represented approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales. • Cable television system operators Sales to cable television system operators who own multiple cable television systems primarily originate in our Broadband segment. Sales to our three largest cable television system operator customers represented approximately 6% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. 12 Table of Contents The concentration of our net sales among these key customers or distributors within each of our segments subjects us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability, including, without limitation: • loss of one or more of our key customers or distributors or failure to renegotiate new distributor agreements; • financial difficulties experienced by one or more of our key customers or distributors resulting in reduced purchases of our products and/or uncollectible accounts receivable balances; • reductions in inventory levels held by distributors and OEMs which may be unrelated to purchasing trends by the ultimate customer; • consolidations in the cable television or telecommunications industries could result in delays in purchasing decisions, or reduced purchases, by the merged businesses; • the cable television and telecommunications industries are each subject to significant government regulation, and new or proposed laws or regulations could impact capital spending plans and, therefore, adversely impact our business; • increases in the cost of borrowing or capital and/or reductions in the amount of debt or equity capital available to the cable television or telecommunications industries could reduce the level of their capital spending and, therefore, adversely impact our business; • reductions in the level of capital spending in the corporate information technology sector could have an adverse impact on sales of our Enterprise products; • changes in the technology deployed by telecommunication customers could have an adverse impact on our business; • reductions in the level of spending on network maintenance and/or capital improvements by cable television or telecommunications customers could have an adverse impact on our net sales and profitability; and • competition for cable television operators from satellite and other wireless television providers, telephone companies or others could result in lower capital spending and have an adverse impact on sales of our Broadband products. We face competitive pressures with respect to all of our major products. In each of our major product groups, we compete with a substantial number of foreign and domestic companies, some of which have greater resources (financial or otherwise) or lower operating costs than we have. The rapid technological changes occurring in the telecommunications industry could lead to the entry of new competitors. Existing competitors’ actions, such as price reductions or introduction of new innovative products, use of Internet auctions by customers or competitors, and new competitors may have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete successfully with our existing competitors or that we will be able to compete successfully with new competitors. Fiber optic technology presents a potential substitute for some of the communications cable products we sell. A significant decrease in the cost of fiber optic systems could make these systems superior on a price/performance basis to copper systems. A significant decrease in the cost of fiber optic systems would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our coaxial and twisted pair cable sales. 13 Table of Contents There are various complementary and competitive wireless technologies that could be a potential substitute for some of the communications cable products we sell. A significant technological breakthrough or significant decrease in the cost of deploying these wireless technologies could have a material adverse effect on our cable sales. Supply Chain Risks Our dependence on commodities subjects us to price fluctuations and potential availability constraints which could materially adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability may be materially affected by changes in the market price and availability of certain raw materials, most of which are linked to the commodity markets. The principal raw materials we purchase are rods, tapes, sheets, hardware, tubes and wires made of copper, steel, aluminum or brass; plastics and other polymers; and optical fiber. Fabricated aluminum, copper and steel are used in the production of coaxial and twisted pair cables and polymers are used to insulate and protect cables. Prices for copper, aluminum, steel, fluoropolymers and certain other polymers, derived from oil and natural gas, have experienced significant volatility as a result of changes in the levels of global demand, supply disruptions, and other factors. As a result, we have adjusted our prices for certain products and may have to adjust prices again in the future. Delays in implementing price increases or a failure to achieve market acceptance of future price increases could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In an environment of falling commodities prices, we may be unable to sell higher-cost inventory before implementing price decreases, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for certain raw materials. For certain of our raw material purchases, including fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP), copper rod, copper and aluminum tapes, fine aluminum wire, steel wire and optical fiber, we are dependent on key suppliers. FEP is the primary raw material used throughout the industry for producing flame-retarding cables for local area network (LAN) applications in North America. There are few worldwide producers of FEP and market supplies have been periodically limited over the past several years. Availability of adequate supplies of FEP will be critical to future LAN cable sales growth in North America. If FEP is not available in adequate quantities on acceptable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Optical fiber is a primary material used for making fiber optic cables. There are few worldwide suppliers of the premium optical fibers we use in our products. Availability of adequate supplies of premium optical fibers will be critical to future fiber optic cable sales growth. Our key suppliers could experience financial difficulties, or there may be global shortages of the raw materials we use, and our inability to find sources of supply at reasonable terms could materially adversely affect our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective way. If our components or completed products purchased from our suppliers experience performance issues, our business will suffer. Our business depends on delivering products of consistently high quality. To this end, our products, including components and raw materials purchased from our suppliers and completed goods purchased for resale, are rigorously tested for quality both by us and our customers. Nevertheless, our products are highly complex and testing procedures used by us and our customers are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. For various reasons (including, among others, the occurrence of performance problems unforeseeable in testing), raw materials or components purchased from our suppliers may fail to perform as expected. Performance issues could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. We have experienced such performance issues in the past and remain exposed to such performance issues. In some cases, 14 Table of Contents recall of some or all affected products, product redesigns or additional capital equipment may be required to correct a defect. In addition, we generally offer warranties on most products, the terms and conditions of which depend upon the product subject to the warranty. We cannot assure you that future claims will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Any significant or systemic product failure could also result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as customer relations problems. If contract manufacturers that we rely on to produce a significant portion of our products or key components of products encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain products or key components of products. If we are unable to arrange for sufficient production capacity among our contract manufacturers or if our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, which could be material. Operational Risks Successful implementation and roll-out of product innovations is necessary to preserve customer relationships. Many of our markets are characterized by advances in information processing and communications capabilities that require increased transmission speeds and greater capacity, or “bandwidth,” for carrying information. These advances require ongoing improvements in the capabilities of power amplifiers, filters, antennas, cabinets, cable, and connectivity and transmission products. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop, manufacture and introduce new products that meet or anticipate these changes. The failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-competitive basis or the inability to continue to market existing products on a cost-competitive basis could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. New product introductions may replace sales of some of our current products, mitigating the benefits of new product introductions and possibly resulting in excess levels of inventory. Orders received from customers may be cancelled or may result in lower levels of orders in future periods. The quarterly volume of orders received from customers may be volatile. Orders received from customers may not ultimately result in sales as customers may cancel or modify orders prior to shipment of the goods. As we have experienced, the volume of orders received from one or more customers in one quarter may result in a lower volume of orders from those customers in subsequent quarters. If our integrated global manufacturing operations suffer production or shipping delays, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We internally produce, both domestically and internationally, a significant portion of certain components used in our finished products. Disruption of our ability to produce at or distribute from these facilities due to failure of our technology, fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism, shipping interruptions or some other catastrophic event could materially adversely affect our ability to manufacture products at our other manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective and timely manner. 15 Table of Contents If we encounter capacity constraints with respect to our internal facilities and/or existing or new contract manufacturers, it could have an adverse impact on our business. If we do not have sufficient production capacity, either through our internal facilities and/or through independent contract manufacturers, to meet customer demand for our products, we may experience lost sales opportunities and customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing; inventory control; purchasing and supply chain management; human resources; and financial reporting. We periodically implement upgrades to such systems or migrate one or more of our affiliates, facilities or operations from one system to another. If we are unable to adequately maintain such systems to support our developing business requirements or effectively manage any upgrade or migration, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, financial results, or our ability to timely and accurately report such results. If our products experience performance issues, our business will suffer. Our business depends on delivering products of consistently high quality. To this end, our products are rigorously tested for quality both by us and our customers. Nevertheless, our products are highly complex and testing procedures used by us and our customers are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. For various reasons (including, among others, the occurrence of performance problems unforeseeable in testing), our products may fail to perform as expected. Performance issues could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. We have experienced such performance issues in the past and remain exposed to such performance issues. In some cases, recall of some or all affected products, product redesigns or additional capital equipment may be required to correct a defect. In addition, we generally offer warranties on most products, the terms and conditions of which depend upon the product subject to the warranty. In particular, we warrant the operation of our SYSTIMAX products for a period of up to 20 years from installation. In some cases, we indemnify our customers against damages or losses that might arise from certain claims relating to our products. We cannot assure you that future claims will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Any significant or systemic product failure could also result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as customer relations problems. International Operations Risk Our significant international operations present economic, political and other risks. We have a significant level of international manufacturing operations and international sales. We have major manufacturing facilities in China, Brazil, Ireland, Mexico, India, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, and Germany. For the year ended December 31, 2008, international sales represented approximately 53% of our net sales. Our international sales, manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to the risks inherent in operating abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to currency exchange rates; economic and political destabilization; restrictive actions by foreign governments; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; foreign tax laws, including the ability to recover amounts paid as value added taxes; potential restriction for the repatriation of cash; reduced protection of intellectual property; longer customer payment cycles; compliance with local laws and regulations; armed conflict; terrorism; shipping interruptions; and major health concerns (such as infectious diseases). 16 Table of Contents Volatility in foreign exchange rates can have a significant impact on net sales and operating expense. Foreign currency rates in many of the countries in which we operate have been extremely volatile and unpredictable, at times. We may determine that we are unable to hedge the risks associated with this volatility in an effective manner. In such cases, we may experience declines in revenue and adverse impacts on operating results and such changes could be material. Acquisition, Realignment, Restructuring and Disposition Risks We may fail to fully realize the anticipated synergies and cost savings expected from our acquisition of Andrew. The success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to fully realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost savings from combining the businesses of CommScope and Andrew. We expect the cost savings to come from a combination of procurement savings, rationalization of duplicate locations, streamlining overhead and integration of infrastructure, and building upon best practices in technology and manufacturing. We cannot provide any assurance regarding when additional cost savings can be achieved, if at all. To fully realize these anticipated benefits, we must continue to combine the businesses in a manner that permits these synergies to be realized. In addition, our success depends, in part, on these synergies being achieved without adversely affecting revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, such anticipated benefits may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. We may have difficulty completing the integration of the CommScope and Andrew businesses and may incur substantial costs in connection with completing the integration. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend upon the ongoing integration of CommScope’s and Andrew’s products, services, operations, personnel, technology and facilities in a timely and efficient manner. Although we have not experienced and do not anticipate material difficulties in connection with such integration, the possibility exists that such difficulties could be experienced in connection with the acquisition, especially given the relatively large size of the acquisition. The time and expense associated with combining the businesses of CommScope and Andrew may exceed our expectations and limit or delay the intended benefits of the transaction. Similarly, the process of combining sales and marketing forces, consolidating administrative functions, and coordinating product and service offerings can take longer, cost more, and provide fewer benefits than initially projected. To the extent any of these events occur, the benefits of the transaction may be reduced. The ongoing integration of the CommScope and Andrew businesses is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. We may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in completing the integration of the two businesses. These difficulties, costs and delays may include: • Potential difficulty in combining the separate product technologies of CommScope and Andrew; • Perceived adverse changes in product offerings available to customers or in customer service standards, whether or not these changes do, in fact, occur; • Costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; • Difficulties in combining research and development teams and processes; • Difficulty comparing financial reports due to differing financial and/or internal reporting systems; • Diversion of management resources from the business; 17 Table of Contents • Challenges in retaining and integrating management and other key employees of CommScope and Andrew; • Difficulty in coordinating infrastructure operations in an effective and efficient manner; and • The inability to fully achieve the synergies anticipated to be realized from the acquisition. We may seek to further combine certain operations and functions using common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including training, professional development and benefit programs. We may be unsuccessful in integrating these systems and processes in a timely and efficient manner. Any one or all of these factors may cause increased operating costs, worse than anticipated financial performance or the loss of customers and employees. Many of these factors are outside our control. Difficulties may be encountered in the realignment of manufacturing capacity and capabilities among our global manufacturing facilities that could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands for our products. We periodically realign manufacturing capacity among our global facilities in order to reduce costs by improving manufacturing efficiency and to improve our long-term competitive position. The implementation of these initiatives may include significant shifts of production capacity among facilities. There are significant risks inherent in the implementation of these initiatives, including, but not limited to, failing to ensure that: there is adequate production capacity to meet customer demand while capacity is being shifted among facilities; there is no decrease in product quality as a result of shifting capacity; adequate raw material and other service providers are available to meet the needs at the new production locations; equipment can be successfully removed, transported and re-installed; and adequate supervisory, production and support personnel are available to accommodate the shifted production. In the event that manufacturing realignment initiatives are not successfully implemented, we could experience lost future sales and increased operating costs as well as customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may need to undertake additional restructuring actions in the future. We have previously recognized restructuring charges in response to slowdowns in demand for our products and in conjunction with implementation of initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiency of our operations. As a result of integrating the CommScope and Andrew businesses or in response to business conditions, we may need to initiate additional restructuring actions that could result in workforce reductions and restructuring charges, which could be material. We may not fully realize anticipated benefits from prior or future acquisitions or equity investments. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of any acquisition or equity investment, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. There are significant challenges to integrating an acquired operation into our business, including, but not limited to: • successfully managing the operations, manufacturing facilities and technology; • maintaining and increasing the customer base; • retaining of key employees, suppliers and distributors; 18 Table of Contents • integrating management information, inventory, accounting and sales systems; and • addressing significant operating losses related to individual facilities or product lines. Financial Risks Failure to maintain compliance with our debt covenants could result in an event of default, potentially resulting in a material increase in the interest rate on the debt, among other possible consequences. Under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities, we are subject to two primary financial covenants: an interest coverage ratio for the preceding twelve months, which is tested at the end of each fiscal quarter, and a consolidated leverage ratio, with which we must comply at all times. Unanticipated charges may cause us to violate our financial covenants. As of December 31, 2008, the minimum interest coverage ratio and the maximum consolidated leverage ratio permitted under our senior secured credit facilities were both 3.75 to 1.0. Beginning with the quarter ending September 30, 2009, the minimum interest coverage ratio increases to 4.50 to 1.0 and the maximum consolidated leverage ratio decreases to 3.25 to 1.0. Beginning with the quarter ending September 30, 2010, the minimum interest coverage ratio increases further to 5.00 to 1.0 and the maximum consolidated leverage ratio decreases further to 2.50 to 1.0. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, we will be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, which could result in, among other things, the outstanding balance of our term loans becoming due and payable immediately, a material increase in the interest rate and further restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility. We have substantial indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have the following consequences: • Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired in the future; • A substantial portion of our annual cash flow for the next several years must be dedicated to the payment of principal (including mandatory annual excess cash flow payments) and interest on the indebtedness; • The interest cost on a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to changes in interest rates and our net earnings could be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates; • We are substantially more leveraged than certain of our competitors, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage; • We are subject to restrictive covenants that may negatively affect our operational or financial flexibility or our ability to pursue additional acquisitions; • We may be hindered in our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; and • Our high degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or business. We may need to recognize additional impairment charges related to goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, fixed assets or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. As a result of the Andrew acquisition, we have substantial balances of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. We are required to test goodwill and any other intangible asset with an indefinite life for possible 19 Table of Contents impairment on the same date each year and on an interim basis if there are indicators of a possible impairment. We are also required to evaluate amortizable intangible assets and fixed assets for impairment if there are indicators of a possible impairment. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of an impairment of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, fixed assets or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. If, as a result of a general economic slowdown, or deterioration in one or more of the markets in which we operate or in our financial performance and/or future outlook, the fair value of our long-lived assets decreases, we may determine one or more of our long-lived assets is impaired. An impairment charge would be determined based on the estimated fair value of the assets and any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We have significant obligations under our defined benefit employee benefit plans. There is a significant unfunded liability related to our defined benefit employee benefit plans. Significant changes to the assets and/or the liabilities related to our defined benefit employee benefit obligations as a result of changes in actuarial estimates, asset performance or benefit changes, among others, could have a material impact on our financial position and/or results of operations. In addition, legislation in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions could require us to fund a material portion of our significant unfunded obligations over the next several years, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial flexibility. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may be limited. Although we believe our current cash and cash equivalents as well as future cash from operations and availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, we may need to seek additional financing to compete effectively. Our public debt ratings affect our ability to raise capital and the cost of that capital. As of December 31, 2008, our corporate debt rating from Standard & Poor’s is BB- with a stable outlook and from Moody’s is Ba3 with a stable outlook. Future downgrades of our debt ratings may increase our borrowing costs and affect our ability to access the debt or equity markets on terms and in amounts that would be satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms, it could: • reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • restrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit business opportunities; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future under the revolving facility that is part of our senior secured credit facilities, through future debt issuance or through assumption of liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial condition. We maintain insurance covering our normal business operations, including fire, property and casualty protection that we believe is adequate. We do not generally carry insurance covering wars, acts of terrorism, 20 Table of Contents earthquakes or other similar catastrophic events. Because insurance has generally become more expensive, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on financially reasonable terms in the future. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial condition. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly and annual effective tax rate. As a result of the Andrew acquisition, we have a larger and more complex international tax profile and a significantly greater level of net operating loss and other carryforwards. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, repatriation of earnings from foreign affiliates, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the inability to realize net operating loss and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future. A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Difficult and volatile conditions in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we do not know if these conditions will improve in the near future. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by difficult conditions and significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a recession and concern about a protracted economic slowdown. The difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways. For example: • As a result of the recent volatility in commodity prices, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future price increases, which could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. • Although we believe we have sufficient liquidity under our senior secured revolving credit facility to run our business, under extreme market conditions there can be no assurance that such funds would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. • To the extent that we repatriate foreign earnings to meet cash requirements, we may experience higher and more volatile effective income tax rates. • In order to respond to market conditions, we may need to seek waivers from various provisions in our senior secured credit facilities. There can be no assurance that we can obtain such waivers at a reasonable cost, if at all. • Market conditions could cause the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments we use to hedge our exposure to interest rate and currency fluctuations to experience financial difficulties and, as a result, our efforts to hedge these exposures could prove unsuccessful and, furthermore, our ability to engage in additional hedging activities may decrease or become more costly as a result of these conditions. • Recent market volatility has exerted downward pressure on our stock price, which may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital in the future. • Market conditions could result in our key customers experiencing financial difficulties and/or electing to limit spending, which in turn could result in decreased sales and earnings for us. We do not know if market conditions or the state of the overall economy will improve in the near future. 21 Table of Contents Litigation and Regulatory Risks We may incur costs and may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and in defending claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We may encounter difficulties, costs or risks in protecting our intellectual property rights or obtaining rights to additional intellectual property to permit us to continue or expand our business. Other companies, including some of our largest competitors, hold intellectual property rights in our industry and the intellectual property rights of others could inhibit our ability to introduce new products unless we secure licenses on commercially reasonable terms, as such are needed. In addition, we have been required and may be required in the future to initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and/or validity of a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights. We also have been and may in the future be subject to lawsuits by third parties seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to cease using proprietary third party technology and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In certain markets, we may be required to address counterfeit versions of our products. We may incur significant costs in pursuing the originators of such counterfeit products and, if we are unsuccessful in eliminating them from the market, may experience a diminution in the value of our products. A jury has found that Andrew willfully infringed a third party’s patent in providing a mobile location system to a customer located in the Middle East, and the judge has reduced the jury verdict to $23.25 million in damages, plus interest, to that third party. The Company is involved in a patent infringement lawsuit with TruePosition, Inc. related to Andrew’s sale of certain mobile location products. In September of 2007, a jury ruled in favor of TruePosition and awarded $45.3 million in damages. Management believed the verdict was in error and sought to have it reversed. After the submission of motions on the Company’s attempts to set aside the verdict and TruePosition’s request for a permanent injunction and an enhancement of the damages awarded, up to trebling the amount, the trial court reduced the compensatory judgment amount from $45.3 million to $18.6 million plus interest, and while denying the request for trebling, enhanced the reduced damage amount by 25%, bringing the total judgment to $23.25 million. The court also granted TruePosition’s motion for a permanent injunction related to the products at issue and indicated that it will enter such an injunction. The parties are currently engaged in discovery related to the scope of the injunction, as well as an accounting to determine what, if any, additional amounts Andrew may be liable for related to one additional phase of the customer project at issue. CommScope disagrees with the underlying verdict, the enhancement of damages and the entry of an injunction and continues to believe that the products at issue do not infringe TruePosition’s patent. CommScope expects to appeal the remaining portion of the underlying judgment, as well as the injunction which the court indicated it will enter. As a result of the trial court ruling in the case, our estimate of the probable loss was reduced from $45.3 million to $28.4 million (including interest). The ultimate resolution of the TruePosition litigation may be materially different than our current estimate, which does not include legal fees we may incur in appeals or other proceedings. The litigation with TruePosition may result in the loss of future revenue opportunities, including opportunities to manufacture and sell products using uplink time difference of arrival (U-TDOA) technology; however, we are not currently able to assess the likelihood or magnitude of such potential lost opportunities. In March 2008, TruePosition Inc. served Andrew with a complaint in a lawsuit filed in the Superior Court, New Castle County in Delaware. The suit alleges that Andrew breached certain patent license royalty obligations 22 Table of Contents to TruePosition under a 2004 settlement agreement related to a prior lawsuit between the parties and alleges that Andrew owes TruePosition approximately $30 million. The Company believes it has valid defenses and will vigorously defend itself in this action. Compliance with domestic and foreign environmental laws and potential environmental liabilities may have a material adverse impact. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, management of hazardous substances, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and investigation and remediation of hazardous substance contamination. Because of the nature of our business, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs relating to compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with current laws and regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, new laws and regulations, including those regulating the types of substances allowable in certain of our products, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new remediation or discharge requirements, could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the European Union has issued directives relating to hazardous substances contained in electrical and electronic equipment and the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment. If we are unable to comply with these and similar laws in other jurisdictions, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and similar state statutes, current or former owners or operators of a contaminated property, as well as companies that generated, disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at a contaminated property can be held jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of the contaminated property, regardless of fault. Our present and past facilities have been in operation for many years and over that time, in the course of those operations, these facilities have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes which are, or might be, considered hazardous. We have been indemnified by prior owners and operators of certain of these facilities for costs of investigation and/or remediation, but there can be no assurance that we will not ultimately be liable for some or all of these costs. Therefore, it is possible that environmental liabilities may arise in the future which we cannot now predict. Allegations of health risks from wireless equipment may negatively affect our results of operations. Allegations of health risks from the electromagnetic fields generated by base stations and mobile handsets, and potential lawsuits and negative publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could affect our operations negatively by leading consumers to reduce their use of mobile phones or by causing us to allocate resources to these issues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 