Item 1A. Risk Factors” could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all of these factors. Further, management cannot assess the impact of each factor on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Gevity HR, Inc. (“Gevity” or the “Company”) delivers the Gevity Edgetm, a comprehensive employment management solution comprised of innovative management and administration services, helping employers: • Streamline human resource (“HR”) administration. Gevity takes the stress and effort out of payroll management and administration, benefits and benefits administration. • Optimize HR practices. Gevity works with the client’s team to build structure — policies, procedures and communications — for effective employment management, hiring practices and risk management over time. • Maximize people and performance. Gevity helps hone the skills and capabilities of clients’ staff and management for long-term employee retention and business success. Gevity’s employment management solution is designed to positively impact its clients’ business results by: • increasing clients’ productivity by improving employee performance and generating greater employee retention; • allowing clients and their employees to focus on revenue producing activities rather than HR matters; and • reducing clients’ exposure to liabilities associated with non-compliance with HR-related regulatory and tax matters. Essentially, Gevity serves as the full-service HR department for these businesses, providing each employee with support previously only available at much larger companies. 1 Table of Contents The Company serves a growing and diverse client base of small and mid-sized businesses in a wide variety of industries. The Company’s clients have employees located in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. These clients and their employees are served by a network of 42 offices in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. In addition, the Company has internal employees located onsite at certain client facilities. As of December 31, 2006, the Company served approximately 7,400 clients, as measured by individual client Federal Employer Identification Numbers (“FEIN”), with approximately 128,400 active client employees. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company’s top 25 clients represented approximately 7.7% of its client billings, with no single client representing more than 2.4% of its client billings. The Company’s operations are conducted through a number of wholly-owned subsidiaries. The terms “Company” or “Gevity” as used in this report includes Gevity HR, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company was incorporated in Florida and consummated its initial public offering in 1997 after acquiring all of the assets of a predecessor professional employer organization business. In May 2002, the Company’s shareholders voted to change the Company’s name from “Staff Leasing, Inc.” to “Gevity HR, Inc.” Until 2002, the Company’s business was primarily focused on providing cost effective insurance offerings and payroll processing services for its clients. Since then the Company has shifted its business model to focus on providing its clients with a comprehensive, full service HR management solution. The Company believes that this important shift in focus allows it to better serve its client base and grow its business. Thousands of small and mid-sized businesses nationwide leverage the flexibility and scalability of the Company’s HR solution to help them maximize the return on investment in their people. To date, Gevity has primarily delivered this solution, Gevity Edge, through co-employment, an arrangement in which the client assigns certain employment-related responsibilities to Gevity. The primary purpose of the co-employment business model is to augment full-service HR support with health care and workers’ compensation insurance under Gevity’s master policies. Once co-employed by Gevity, client employees not only enjoy full-service HR support but also become part of an insured pool of client employees. While many clients benefit from the added insurance protection offered by the co-employment business model, Gevity has been increasingly confronted with the demand for its Gevity Edge full-service HR solution on a stand-alone basis, separate from insurance coverage. In response, the Company developed a new business model in 2004 that allowed it to deliver the Gevity Edge solution detached from insurance coverage and without entering into a co-employment arrangement with the client. Now available as an option, Gevity Edge Selecttm, the non co-employed version of Gevity Edge serves the needs of broader markets. Gevity Edge Select is expected to allow the Company to accelerate the transition away from the co-employment business model and reduce the Company’s exposure to client insurance risk. This transitioned business model creates expanded market potential. It also provides for improved quality and predictability of financial results as earnings are expected to no longer include margins from taking client insurance risk. As Gevity completes the milestones in its non co-employment initiative, the Company expects to reach its long-term performance standard of all revenues consisting of 100% service fees by 2009. At the beginning of 2006, the Company embarked on a ’multi-layer’ growth strategy consisting of a multitude of parallel efforts designed to generate a greater percentage of profits from professional service fees while simultaneously accelerating growth in the number of client employees served. The growth strategy is comprised of five facets: • Intra client — identification of growth opportunities within the existing client portfolio through pricing and retention; • Intra market — generation of growth through further penetration of existing markets driven by sales production and productivity; • Mid-market — expansion of the client portfolio through the addition of clients with 500-5,000 employees; • New markets — expansion of field offices through the addition of four full service offices during 2006; • Acquisition opportunities — introduction of a disciplined strategic acquisition program. 2 Table of Contents During 2006, the Company took several important steps to execute on its multi-layer growth strategy and revised its approach where necessary. • Intra client — the Company successfully completed its “value proposition outreach” campaign by communicating its unique value proposition to its clients, which resulted in an increase in professional service fees of approximately 15.9% elevating the contribution of professional service fees to gross profit from 72% in 2005 to 80% in 2006. In addition, the Company recommitted itself to providing high quality service through the “Keep Clients First” campaign. • Intra market — in order to gain market share in existing markets, the Company created greater flexibility for its clients by offering additional health plan options in 2006 through the introduction of carrier choice. At the same time, health premiums were increased to retail rates, which was considered an essential step in the transition to a 100% recurring service fee driven business model in an insurance risk-free environment. • Mid-market — the Company remains committed to its current mid-market clients and growth initiative. The Company has revised its mid-market approach away from a dedicated sales team and has reintegrated mid-market sales into existing field operations which resulted in the addition of a mid-market client in January 2007. • New markets — the Company met its 2006 plan of opening four new full service field offices. New offices were opened in Charlotte, North Carolina, Chicago, Illinois, and Austin and San Antonio, Texas. Future office openings in 2007 are expected to be in and around current markets, with the pace and timing of these openings linked to demonstrated growth within the market. • Acquisition opportunities — the Company has adopted a strategic acquisition program that resulted in the acquisition of HRAmerica, Inc. in February 2007. This acquisition will provide Gevity with a technology platform to take Gevity Edge Select to market on a broader scale, which is a key step in the transition to a 100% recurring service fee driven business model. Human Resource Outsourcing Industry The Company believes that small and mid-sized businesses are the primary drivers of economic growth and the chief source of job growth. Dun & Bradstreet estimates that during 2006, 46% of the U.S. workforce was comprised of these companies. These businesses are also potential HR outsourcing customers since many desire to outsource non-core business functions, reduce regulatory compliance risk, rationalize the number of service providers that they use and reduce costs by integrating HR systems and processes. According to Dun & Bradstreet, during 2006: • there were approximately 61.3 million employees working for companies with between 10 and 499 employees, which is defined as the small and emerging market segment; and • there were approximately 25.6 million employees working for companies with between 500 and 1,999 employees, which is defined as the mid-market segment. The Company believes that the small and emerging market segment of the HR outsourcing market is particularly attractive because: • this segment is large and has a low penetration rate of outsourced comprehensive HR services; • small and mid-sized businesses typically have fewer in-house resources than larger businesses and, as a result, are generally more dependent on their outsourced service providers; • businesses of this size select service providers primarily based upon the quality of service, ease of use, and responsiveness to clients’ needs; • businesses of this size generally do not require customized solutions, enabling service providers to obtain significant scale advantages if they operate on an integrated technology platform; and 3 Table of Contents • this segment is characterized by a relatively short sales cycle and lower client acquisition cost as compared to the large business market. The Company also believes that the mid-market segment is currently underserved and shares some of the attributes above that make small and emerging market companies an attractive market. Professional Services Provided by the Company The Company provides a broad range of tools and services to its clients. These tools and services are primarily offered to the Company’s clients on a “bundled” or all-inclusive basis. In addition to the Company’s core services, clients may elect to offer to their employees health and welfare and retirement programs. The Company provides these tools and services to its clients through the following core activities: Streamline HR administration — Gevity takes the stress and effort out of payroll management and administration, benefits and benefits administration. Payroll1 + Payroll Administration Services Online Tools Administrative processing: Web-based HRMS2 access For Administrators: • Payroll processing • Account information • W-2 preparation and delivery • Employee data • Tax processing and payment • Reports • Paid time off processing For Employees: • Health and welfare plan processing • Personal information • Time and attendance service • Payroll history Unemployment claims support Payroll and HR-related reports Benefits1 + Benefits Administration Services Online Tools Benefits and insurance plan options Web-based HRMS access Retirement plan options For Administrators: Workers’ compensation insurance options • Annual Benefits Enrollment Employee Assistance Program • Reports For Employees: • Benefits information Optimize HR practices — Gevity works with clients to build structure — policies, procedures and communications — for effective employment management, hiring practices and risk management over time. 1 Gevity Edge Select clients retain their own benefits, and Gevity processes payroll and taxes using the clients’ FEIN. Gevity can provide administrative support for unemployment claims and health and welfare benefits. 2 Oracle’s Human Resource Management System (“HRMS”). 4 Table of Contents New Hire Support Services Online Tools New hire forms kit Job description creation tool Interview process and procedures Salary survey tool Candidate background screening Candidate drug testing Policies + Procedures/Risk Management Services Online Tools Policy and procedure audit HR knowledge base tool Risk assessment • Law summaries Labor law posters • Model documents Employment practices liability insurance • Model company policies Employee relations consultations • News and trends Separation counseling procedures Employee handbook HR forms library Maximize people and performance — Gevity helps hone the skills and capabilities of staff and management for long-term employee retention and business success. Employee Development + Retention Services Online Tools Essentials management training Workplace compliance training • managing and engaging employees • interviewing Harassment prevention program and training Performance Management Services Online Tools Performance management process Performance appraisal tool Progressive counseling procedures Employee reward and recognition program Gevity Institute There is a large body of study describing the positive impact of HR practices on key financial outcomes such as productivity, revenue growth and profitability. However, most of the data concentrates on large employers. There is little information available regarding this important topic that focuses on small and mid-sized employers. As a result, the Company established the Gevity Institute to identify and quantify the relationship between HR practices and the performance of smaller businesses. The Institute’s goal is to become a unique and recognized authority on how professional HR management impacts small and mid-sized business success, and to help the Company’s clients improve their business results by applying this expertise in their firms. 5 Table of Contents The Gevity Institute is currently working in collaboration with Dr. Christopher Collins of Cornell University’s Center for Advanced Human Resource Studies to examine the financial impact of small employer HR practices. The Cornell researchers found: • Small employers recognize employees and employee management are key elements in the success of their firms. However, 90% of the small business owners surveyed said they did not know which employee management practices could help them achieve the best results for their business. • Effective employee management practices help small employers improve workforce alignment, and better workforce alignment results in faster sales growth, increased profits and better customer satisfaction. • Increased use of HR practices leads to higher levels of positive employee outcomes, including effort and involvement, commitment, trust in management, cooperation with co-workers, and lower turnover intentions. In turn, positive employee outcomes lead to higher levels of financial and operational performance. • Small employers using effective HR practices have 22% faster sales growth, 23% higher profit growth and 67% lower employee turnover than firms not using these management practices. The next phase of the Cornell study will attempt to quantify the financial impact of employee management practices across various industry-based segments. Based on these findings, the Cornell researchers are also working with Gevity on the development and introduction of a tool for Gevity clients to assess their firm’s HR practices. This assessment tool will identify potential HR management issues and provide recommended practices that are directly related to improvements in sales, profits and employee retention. Completion of these items is expected in the second quarter of 2007. The Gevity Institute is also working with two additional research organizations. First, the Institute is working with Dr. Brian Klaas of the University of South Carolina to identify the characteristics of likely small business HR outsourcing buyers. Finally, the Institute is sponsoring research with the International Association of Business Communicators (IABC) to study the business impact of effective employee communication practices in small to mid-sized businesses. Final results from both of these research efforts are expected in the first half of 2007. Clients The Company had clients classified in over 500 Standard Industrial Classification (“SIC”) codes. The following table shows the Company’s client distribution by major SIC code industry grouping for the years indicated, ranked as a percentage of client billings: Year Ended December 31, Percentage of Client Billings by Industry 2006 2005 2004 Services(1) 41.2 % 39.5 % 38.5 % Finance/Insurance/Real Estate 15.8 16.4 14.7 Manufacturing 12.2 12.0 12.6 Retail Trade 9.2 9.4 8.9 Construction(2) 9.1 9.9 11.0 Wholesale Trade 6.8 7.3 7.5 Transportation 2.3 2.0 2.0 Restaurants 2.0 1.9 2.1 Agriculture 1.3 1.5 1.8 Other 0.1 0.1 0.9 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) The Services category consists principally of health services, business services, personal services (e.g., laundry and dry cleaning, beauty and barber shops), hotel and lodging services, computer services, legal services, building maintenance, social services and miscellaneous repair services. 6 Table of Contents (2) The Construction category consists principally of general contracting and other trade work, such as heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, plumbing, electrical and flooring. This category does not include workers engaged in roofing or other high-elevation exposure risk activities. As part of its current approach to client selection, the Company offers its Gevity Edge full service HR solution to businesses within specified industry codes. All prospective clients are evaluated individually on the basis of total predicted profitability. This analysis takes into account workers’ compensation risk and claims history, unemployment claims history, payroll adequacy, and credit status. With respect to potential clients operating in certain industries believed by the Company to present a level of risk exceeding industry norms, more rigorous underwriting requirements must be met before the Company agrees to provide Gevity Edge or co-employment related services to the potential client. This process may include an on-site inspection and review of workers’ compensation and unemployment claims experience for the last three years. The Company considers industries to be high risk if there is a likelihood of a high frequency of on-the-job accidents involving client employees or a likelihood that such accidents will be severe. In addition, under the terms of the Company’s workers’ compensation agreement, prospective clients operating in certain industries or with historically high workers’ compensation insurance claims experience must also be approved by the Company’s insurance carrier before the Company enters into a contract to provide services. The Company also maintains a client review program that includes a detailed profitability and risk analysis of all of its existing clients. Based on the results of these analyses, the Company may modify its pricing or, if necessary, terminate certain clients that the Company believes would not contribute to its long-term profitability or otherwise be detrimental to its business. The Company’s client retention rate for 2006 was approximately 80.1%. This rate is computed by dividing the number of clients at the end of the period by the sum of the number of clients at the beginning of the period plus the number of clients added during the period. The client retention rate is affected by a number of factors, including the natural instability of small businesses and the number of clients that were terminated by the Company as part of its client review program. All of the Company’s clients are required to enter into a professional services agreement, which generally provides for an initial one-year term, subject to termination by the Company or the client at any time upon either 30 or 45 days prior written notice. Following the initial term, the contract may be renewed, terminated or continued on a month-to-month basis. Under the co-employment business service model, which covered substantially all of the Company’s clients in 2006, the Company and the client each become a co-employer of the client’s employees, and the Company operates as a licensed professional employer organization. Through Gevity Edge Select, clients are also offered the option to use the Company’s services without the Company becoming a co-employer of the client’s employees, in which case tax filings are made under the client’s FEIN and the client provides its own workers’ compensation insurance and health and welfare plans. The Company retains the ability to immediately terminate the client (and co-employment relationship, if applicable) upon non-payment by a client. The Company manages its credit risk through the periodic nature of payroll, client credit checks, owner guarantees, the Company’s client selection process and its right to terminate the client and the co-employment relationship with the client employees, if applicable. Under the professional services agreement applicable to the co-employment model, employment-related liabilities are contractually allocated between the Company and the client. For instance, the Company assumes responsibility for, and manages the risks associated with, each client’s employee payroll obligations, including the liability for payment of salaries and wages to each client employee, the payment of payroll taxes and, at the client’s option, responsibility for providing group health, welfare and retirement benefits to such individuals. These Company obligations are fixed, whether or not the client makes timely payment of the associated service fee. In this regard, unlike payroll processing service providers, the Company issues to each of the client employees payroll checks drawn on the Company’s bank accounts. The Company also reports and remits all required employment information and taxes to the applicable federal and state agencies and issues a federal Form W-2 to each client employee under the Company’s FEIN. 7 Table of Contents Under the co-employment model, the Company assumes the responsibility for compliance with employment-related governmental regulations that can be effectively managed away from the client’s worksite. The Company provides workers’ compensation insurance coverage to each client employee under the Company’s master insurance policy. The client, on the other hand, contractually retains the general day-to-day responsibility to direct, control, hire, terminate, set the wages and salary of, and manage each of the client’s employees. The client employee services are performed for the exclusive benefit of the client’s business. The client also remains responsible for compliance with those employment-related governmental regulations that are more closely related to the day-to-day management of client employees. In some cases, employment-related liabilities are shared between the Company and the client. The following table summarizes the typical division of responsibilities for employment-related regulatory compliance under the Company’s professional services agreement applicable to the co-employment model: Gevity Client • All rules and regulations governing the reporting, collection and payment of federal and state payroll taxes on wages, including: (i) federal income tax withholding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code; (ii) state and/or local income tax withholding provisions; (iii) Federal Income Contributions Act (FICA); (iv) Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA); and (v) applicable state unemployment tax provisions, including managing claims • Applicable workers’ compensation laws that cover: (i) procuring workers’ compensation insurance; (ii) completing and filing all required reports; and (iii) claims processing • Worksite and employee safety under the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and related or similar federal, state or local regulations • Government contracting requirements as regulated by, including, but not limited to: (i) Executive Order 11246; (ii) Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973; (iii) Vietnam Era Veteran’s Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974; (iv) Walsh-Healy Public Contracts Act; (v) Davis-Bacon Act; (vi) the Service Contract Act of 1965; and (vii) any and all related or similar federal, state or local laws, regulations, ordinances and statutes • COBRA (Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986) continuation coverage for employees covered under health plans sponsored by Gevity • Professional licensing and liability • Internal Revenue Code Sections 414 (m), (n) and (o) relating to client maintained benefit plans • Laws governing the garnishment of wages, including Title III of the Consumer Credit Protection Act • Laws affecting the assignment and ownership of intellectual property rights • All rules and regulations governing administration, procurement and payment of all Company sponsored employee benefit plans elected by the client or client employee • Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN) • Laws affecting the maintenance, storage and disposal of hazardous materials • Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA)* • Title VII (Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended), Immigration Reform and Control Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Older Workers Benefit Protection Act • Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA)* • All other federal, state, county or local laws, regulations, ordinances and statutes which regulate employees’ wage and hour matters, prohibit discrimination in the workplace or govern the employer/employee relationship * The Company and the client are each responsible for certain provisions under the terms of each act. 8 Table of Contents Under the co-employment model, the Company charges its clients a professional service fee that is designed to yield a profit and to cover the cost of certain employment-related taxes, workers’ compensation insurance coverage and HR services provided to the client. The component of the professional service fee related to HR management varies according to the size of the client, the amount and frequency of the payroll payments and the method of delivery of such payments. The component of the service fee related to workers’ compensation and unemployment insurance is based, in part, on the client’s historical claims experience. In addition, the client may choose to offer certain health, welfare and retirement benefits to its employees. The Company invoices each client for the service fee and costs of selected benefit plans, as well as the wages and other employment-related taxes of each client employee. The gross billings are invoiced at the time that each periodic payroll is delivered to the client. Under the professional services agreement applicable to the Gevity Edge Select or non co-employment model, employment-related liabilities remain with the client and the client is responsible for its own workers’ compensation insurance and health and welfare plans. The Company assumes responsibility for administration of the payroll process, including payroll processing, payroll tax filing and W-2 preparation. In addition, the Company provides access to all of its HR services. Under the non co-employment model, the Company charges its clients a professional service fee designed to cover the cost of its services and yield a profit to the Company. Service Delivery and Information Technology The Company delivers services using the power of local and national resources, on the clients’ terms, by using these delivery components: • Gevity OnSitetm. Local HR consultants are available to work with clients onsite, either full time or on a regularly scheduled basis. • Gevity OnCalltm. A dedicated team of HR professionals is available by telephone to address payroll and general HR needs for clients at a designated number. • Gevity OnLinetm. Gevity clients and their employees have online access to their company information anytime via gevity.com. The Ask Gevity link on gevity.com provides up-to-date critical HR, compliance and regulatory information. In order to provide proactive client relationship management, each of the Company’s clients is assigned a single HR consultant to serve as the client relationship manager. This allows the client to interface with the Company through a single point person. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had over 200 HR consultants with significant experience in the HR industry. Many of the Company’s HR consultants hold industry recognized certifications from organizations such as the Society for Human Resource Management. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had invested approximately $54.7 million related to information technology assets in use and is continuing to invest capital resources in the development and enhancement of its current information technology infrastructure and service delivery capabilities. This investment is intended to better serve the Company’s client base, achieve a high level of client satisfaction and allow the Company to improve both the efficiency and effectiveness of its operations. The Company processes payroll for the majority of its client employees using Oracle’s HRMS and Payroll processing application. The Oracle systems enable the Company to effectively manage its existing operations and maintain appropriate controls. The Oracle HRMS and Payroll systems provide the Company with the capability to promptly and accurately deliver HR services and generate comprehensive management reports. The Company’s information systems manage all data relating to client employee enrollment, payroll processing, administration, management information and other requirements of the clients’ operations. The current systems have high-volume processing capabilities that allow the Company to produce and deliver payrolls to its clients, each configured to the needs of such clients. On February 19, 2007, the Company announced the acquisition of HRAmerica, Inc., an HR 9 Table of Contents outsourcing firm, for $10.0 million in cash. This acquisition provides the Company with scalable technology that operates on Ultimate Software’s Ultipro platform to enhance its non-coemployment model, Gevity Edge Select. The Company continues to develop Gevity OnLine, which allows clients to input their payroll data directly into the Company’s payroll applications via the Internet. Clients can regularly add or delete employees, view reports, and change payroll information. Gevity OnLine is fully integrated with the Company’s Oracle HRMS and Payroll systems, Customer Relationship Management solution and financial reporting package, as well as the Company’s comprehensive line of online tools and services. The Company believes that this full integration results in improved client satisfaction, as well as improved efficiencies and operating margins for the Company. Oracle’s portal software provides the foundation, enabling a robust, client configurable online experience, and the Company’s custom-developed software provides additional ease of use and service capabilities. The combination of the Oracle systems for access and functionality and Gevity’s proprietary online capabilities provides a unique solution capable of growing and adapting to the evolving needs of the Company’s clients. The Company’s information technology staff consisted of 71 employees at December 31, 2006. The Company believes the development of its information technology is an integral part of achieving its growth objectives and intends to continue to invest in its technology infrastructure. Sales and Marketing The Company markets its services through a direct sales force which, as of December 31, 2006, consisted of 154 business development managers. The Company’s sales force is distributed throughout its 42 field offices. The Company plans to expand its national coverage and add sales offices in selected major metropolitan areas over the next few years. The Company’s business development managers are compensated through a combination of salary and commission. The Company’s client acquisition model subdivides all markets into individually assigned and identified sales territories and is intended to result in the development of market share by territory. The territory methodology promotes a focused and efficient approach to market penetration and facilitates a collaborative environment among business development managers. The Company generates sales leads from various external sources as well as from direct sales efforts and inquiries. Each business development manager visits his or her clients on-site periodically in order to maintain an ongoing relationship and to seek new business referrals. The Company also generates sales leads from independent referral relationship partners and an information database of small businesses. The Company uses a referral incentive program with its relationship partners to encourage increased referral activity. Competition Gevity provides a comprehensive, full-service HR solution delivered through dedicated HR professionals and an advanced information technology platform. Gevity’s HR consultants complement our total employment management solution, providing the resources and tools found in HR departments of large companies. The Company believes this model allows it to compete favorably in the highly fragmented industry of HR outsourcing for small and mid-sized businesses in which the primary bases of competition are the scope and quality of services delivered. The Company views its primary competitors in two categories. The first is single-point solution providers that offer only one, or a few, facets of the solution the Company provides its clients. This type of competitor is exemplified by information technology outsourcers and broad-based consulting and outsourcing firms, that now provide, or seek to provide, HR outsourcing services. Another example of this type of competitor is consulting companies that perform narrowly defined, individual HR related projects, such as the development of HR strategy or the installation of a HR information system. The Company believes the breadth and integrated nature of its solution positions it well against this type of competitor. The second type of competitor identified by the Company is one that provides a discrete set of transactional services and has expanded, or seeks to expand, its offering to include additional HR related services. Examples include providers of payroll and benefits administration services. The Company believes its expertise in the delivery 10 Table of Contents of high-value, high-impact HR services provides both a key differentiator and source of sustainable competitive advantage versus these competitors whose business models are still dominated by the delivery of processing services and insurance products. The Company believes that it is one of the largest co-employers of client employees in the United States in terms of active client employees and revenues. Historically, most of the Company’s competitors have focused upon discrete processes, but many of them are now promoting integrated process management offerings that may be viewed as competitive with the Company’s offerings. Many of these businesses that operate under the co-employment business model, especially the larger ones such as Administaff, Inc. and companies that primarily provide payroll processing services and also have co-employment businesses, including Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc., are capitalizing on the HR outsourcing model while offering workers’ compensation and group health benefit insurance programs. The Company expects competition to increase, and competitors to develop broader service capabilities. Vendor Relationships The Company provides its services to its client employees under arrangements with a number of providers as described below. Workers’ Compensation Insurance The following is a description of the Company’s workers’ compensation insurance program, which covers all clients who are insured under the co-employment model: The Company has had a loss sensitive workers’ compensation insurance program since January 1, 2000. The program is insured by CNA Financial Corporation (“CNA”) for the 2000, 2001 and 2002 program years. The program is currently insured by member insurance companies of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) and includes coverage for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 program years. In states where private insurance is not permitted, client employees are covered by state insurance funds. The insured loss sensitive programs provide insurance coverage for claims incurred in each plan year but which may be paid out over future periods dependent upon the nature and extent of the worksite injury. The fully insured loss sensitive programs provide for a sharing of risk between the insurance companies and the Company whereby the Company is responsible for paying, through the respective insurance company, the first $1.0 million per occurrence of claims for program years 2000 through 2003 and the first $2.0 million per occurrence of claims for the program years 2004 through 2006, and the respective insurance company is responsible for amounts in excess of the Company’s per occurrence amount. For the 2004 and 2005 program years, the Company purchased additional insurance coverage outside of the AIG program for the layer of claims between $1.0 million and $2.0 million per occurrence for the 2004 program year and for the layer of claims between $0.75 million and $2.0 million per occurrence for the 2005 program year. For the 2006 program year, the Company purchased additional coverage from AIG for the layer of claims between $0.5 million and $2.0 million, up to an aggregate of $11.0 million. The additional insurance coverage effectively limits the Company’s liability for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 program years to the first $1.0 million, $0.75 million and $0.5 million, respectively, per occurrence. In addition, for program years 2000 through 2003, the Company obtained aggregate stop-loss insurance coverage through CNA and AIG, as applicable, further limiting its ultimate liability. The stop loss coverage provided by CNA for the 2000 to 2002 program years limits the Company’s aggregate exposure for claims below the $1.0 million per occurrence level to 130% of the expected losses as determined by CNA. The stop loss coverage provided by AIG for the 2003 program year limits the Company’s aggregate exposure for claims below the $1.0 million per occurrence level to 175% of the expected losses as determined by AIG. The Company did not purchase significant aggregate stop loss coverage for the 2004 through 2006 program years, because the Company believed that the risk of losses exceeding the proposed aggregate stop loss levels was remote. 11 Table of Contents Effective September 30, 2004, the Company entered into agreements with AIG and CNA whereby the Company purchased insurance from AIG to cover the Company’s workers’ compensation claims liability up to the $1.0 million per occurrence deductible level for program years 2000, 2001 and 2002. CNA remains the insurer on the underlying claims for these program years. The insurance purchased from AIG also provides the Company greater protection relative to the aggregate insurance stop-loss coverage by effectively reducing the Company’s maximum exposure for claims that fall below the $1.0 million deductible level from 130% of expected total losses to approximately 117% of expected total losses over the life of the 2000, 2001 and 2002 policies. The insurance purchased from AIG was funded substantially through the release by CNA to the Company of restricted marketable securities previously pledged to CNA as collateral and the release by CNA to the Company of premium payments and deposits previously paid to CNA. Of the total premium paid by the Company to AIG, AIG deposited $88.9 million into an interest bearing loss fund account held by AIG and $5.5 million into an interest bearing escrow account held by CNA. The loss fund account is used to fund all claims under the program up to AIG’s aggregate limit. Interest on the AIG loss fund (which will be reduced as claims are paid out over the life of the policy) will accrue to the benefit of the Company at a fixed annual rate of 3.0% until all claims are closed. Interest on the CNA escrow account bears an interest rate based upon the rate as provided for in the facility into which it is deposited. Any agreed upon reduction in the escrow account between CNA and AIG will be deposited into the AIG loss fund account. AIG will return to the Company that portion of the loss fund account, if any, not used or retained to pay claims, including interest earned, at intervals of 36, 60, 84 and 120 months from the date of the inception of the agreement. The maximum return amount, which is based upon a pre-determined formula, at 36 and 60 months is limited to $5.5 million for each payment due, with no limit as to the return amount at 84 and 120 months. With respect to the 2003 through 2006 program years, the Company, through its Bermuda-based insurance subsidiary, remits premiums to AIG to cover AIG’s estimates of claims related to the first $2.0 million ($1.0 million for program year 2003) per occurrence. AIG deposits the funds into an interest bearing loss fund account to fund all claims up to the $2.0 million per occurrence amount ($1.0 million for program year 2003). Interest on the loss funds (which will be reduced as claims are paid out over the life of the policy) will accrue to the benefit of the Company at fixed annual rates as long as the program and the accrued interest under the program remain with AIG as follows: Initial Loss Fund Minimum Program Premiums Guaranteed Life for Guaranteed (In thousands) Interest Rate Interest Rate Program Year 2003 $ 73,500 * 2.42 % 7 years 2003 $ 11,500 * 1.85 % 7 years 2004 $ 111,400 2.92 % 10 years 2005 $ 100,000 3.75 % 10 years 2006 $ 84,000 4.58 % 10 years * The 2003 program year consists of two loss funds totaling $85,000. If a policy year program is terminated prior to the end of a guarantee period, the interest rate is adjusted downward based upon a sliding scale. All program years provide for an initial premium true-up 18 months after the policy inception and annually thereafter. The true-up is calculated as the product of a pre-determined loss factor and the amount of incurred claims as of the date of the true-up and may result in funds being released from the AIG loss fund to the Company or may require additional loss fund payments by the Company to AIG. In December 2006, the Company renewed its AIG workers’ compensation insurance policy for the 2007 program year. Under the 2007 program, the Company will be required to deposit $66.5 million into an interest bearing loss fund with a guaranteed interest rate of 4.91%, which will be used by AIG to fund losses up to the $0.5 million per occurrence deductible level. 12 Table of Contents See the further discussion of the Company’s workers’ compensation policies at “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates-Workers’ Compensation Receivable/Reserves”. Employee Benefit Plans Following is a description of the Company’s health plans, which are offered to all clients who are served under the co-employment model who meet the minimum participation and contribution requirements: Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida — Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida (“BCBSFL”) is the Company’s primary partner in Florida, delivering medical care benefits to approximately 22,000 Florida based client employees. The Company’s policy with BCBSFL is a minimum premium policy expiring September 30, 2008. Pursuant to this policy, the Company is obligated to reimburse BCBSFL for the cost of the claims incurred by participants under the plan, plus the cost of plan administration. The administrative costs per covered client employee associated with this policy are specified by year and aggregate stop loss coverage is provided to the Company at the level of 110% of projected claims. BCBSFL does not require collateral to secure the Company’s obligation to BCBSFL related to incurred but not reported claims provided that a certain minimum coverage ratio is maintained by the Company. Aetna Health, Inc. — Aetna Health, Inc. (“Aetna”) is the Company’s primary medical care benefits provider for approximately 19,000 client employees throughout the remainder of the country. The Company’s 2006/2007 policy with Aetna provides for an HMO and PPO offering to plan participants. The Aetna HMO medical benefit plans are subject to a guaranteed cost contract that caps the Company’s annual liability. The Aetna PPO medical benefit plan is a retrospective funding arrangement whereby the PPO plan is subject to a 5.0% additional premium if actual plan costs are greater than premium payments for the policy year. UnitedHealthcare — In 2006, the Company announced the addition of UnitedHealthcare as an additional health plan option. As of December 31, 2006, UnitedHealthcare provides medical care benefits to approximately 7,000 client employees. The UnitedHealthcare plan is a fixed cost contract that caps the Company’s annual liability . Other Medical Benefit Plans — The Company provides coverage under various regional medical benefit plans to approximately 1,000 client employees in various areas of the country, including Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. and Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare. Such regional medical plans are fixed cost contracts. Other Health Benefit Plans — The Company’s dental plans, which include both a PPO and HMO offering, are provided by Aetna for all client employees who elect coverage. All dental plans are subject to guaranteed cost contracts that cap the Company’s annual liability. In addition to dental coverage, the Company offers various other guaranteed cost insurance programs to client employees, such as vision care, life, accidental death and dismemberment, short-term disability and long-term disability. The Company also offers a flexible spending account for health care, dependent care and a qualified transportation fringe benefit program. Part-time client employees are eligible to enroll in limited benefit programs from Star HRG. These plans include fixed cost sickness and accident and dental insurance programs, and a vision discount plan. 401(k) Plans The Company offers to clients served under the co-employment model a 401(k) retirement plan, designed to be a multiple employer plan under Section 413(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Generally, employee benefit plans are subject to provisions of both the Code and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”). Internal Company Employees As of December 31, 2006, the Company employed 1,000 internal employees of whom 518 were located at the Company’s headquarters in Bradenton, Florida. The remaining employees were located in the Company’s field 13 Table of Contents offices or in some cases onsite at client locations. None of the Company’s internal employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Industry Regulation General Numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment matters, benefit plans and employment taxes affect the operations of the Company or specifically address issues associated with co-employment. Many of these federal and state laws were enacted before the development of non-traditional employment relationships, such as professional employer organizations, temporary employment and other employment-related outsourcing arrangements and, therefore, do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of a professional employer organization. Other federal and state laws and regulations are relatively new, and administrative agencies and federal and state courts have not yet interpreted or applied these regulations to the Company’s business or its industry. The development of additional regulations and interpretation of those regulations can be expected to evolve over time. In addition, from time to time, states have considered, and may in the future consider, imposing certain taxes on gross revenues or service fees of the Company and its competitors. Twenty-nine states, including nine states where the Company has offices (Arizona, Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas), have passed laws that have licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements for professional employer organizations, and several other states are currently considering similar regulations. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally codify the requirements that a professional employer organization must reserve the right to hire, terminate and discipline client employees and secure workers’ compensation insurance coverage. The Company delegates or assigns such rights to the client where allowed under state law. Currently, New Hampshire is the only state where such delegation is not allowed. The laws also generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of professional employer organizations and, in many cases, the licensure of the controlling officers of the professional employer organization. In addition, some states through legislative or other regulatory action have proposed to modify the manner in which the Company is allowed to provide services to its clients, which could increase the administrative cost associated with providing such services. To the extent modifications are adopted in these states, other states may follow. For example, California is considering modifying the interpretation of the law that governs workers’ compensation insurance coverage to require insurance carriers to issue policies directly to the Company’s clients rather than through the Company under a single master policy. Adoption of this interpretation would increase the Company’s administrative expense in providing workers’ compensation coverage to its clients. The Company believes that its operations are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable federal and state statutes and regulations. 401(k) Plans In order to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Code, 401(k) plans must be established and maintained by an employer for the exclusive benefit of its employees. Generally, an entity is an “employer” of certain workers for federal employment tax purposes if an employment relationship exists between the entity and the workers under the common law test of employment. In addition, the officers of a corporation are deemed to be employees of that corporation for federal employment tax purposes. The common law test of employment, as applied by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), involves an examination of many factors to ascertain whether an employment relationship exists between a worker and a purported employer. Such a test is generally applied to determine whether an individual is an independent contractor or an employee for federal employment tax purposes and not to determine whether each of two or more companies is a “co-employer.” Substantial weight is typically given to the question of whether the purported employer directs and controls the details of an individual’s work. The courts have provided that the common law employer test applied to determine the existence of an employer-employee relationship for federal employment tax purposes can be different than the common law test applied to determine employer status 14 Table of Contents for other federal tax purposes. In addition, control and supervision have been held to be less important factors when determining employer status for ERISA purposes. On May 13, 2002, the IRS released guidance applicable solely to the tax-qualified status of defined contribution retirement plans maintained by professional employer organizations. In that guidance, the IRS declared that it would not assert a violation of the exclusive benefit rule under Section 401(a) of the Code if a professional employer organization that maintains a single employer 401(k) retirement plan for client employees takes certain remedial action by the last day of the first plan year beginning on or after January 1, 2003. The Company maintained a frozen single employer 401(k) retirement plan benefiting certain client employees and took remedial action to qualify for the relief provided under the IRS guidance within the applicable deadline. As part of the remedial action, the plan was terminated. The Company obtained IRS approval to proceed with the plan termination and has completed the distribution of plan assets as of December 31, 2006. In conjunction with the acquisition of EPIX Holdings, Inc. (“EPIX”) in March of 2004, the Company assumed sponsorship of a frozen single employer plan. Prior to the acquisition, EPIX took remedial action to qualify for the relief provided under the IRS guidance. The plan was terminated prior to the applicable deadline and the Company obtained IRS approval to proceed with the plan termination and has completed the distribution of plan assets as of December 31, 2006. The status of the active multiple employer 401(k) retirement plans maintained by the Company is unaffected by the IRS guidance. ERISA Requirements Employee pension and welfare benefit plans are also governed by ERISA. ERISA defines an “employer” as “any person acting directly as an employer, or indirectly in the interest of an employer, in relation to an employee benefit plan.” ERISA defines the term “employee” as “any individual employed by an employer.” The courts have held that the common law test of employment must be applied to determine whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor under ERISA. However, in applying that test, control and supervision are less important for ERISA purposes when determining whether an employer has assumed responsibility for an individual’s benefits status. A definitive judicial interpretation of “employer” in the context of a professional employer organization or employee leasing arrangement has not been established. If the Company were found not to be an employer for ERISA purposes, its former 401(k) retirement plan would not comply with ERISA. Further, the Company would be subject to liabilities, including penalties, with respect to its cafeteria benefits plan for failure to withhold and pay taxes applicable to salary deferral contributions by its clients’ employees. In addition, as a result of such a finding, the Company and its plans would not enjoy, with respect to client employees, the preemption of state laws provided by ERISA and could be subject to varying state laws and regulation, as well as to claims based upon state common laws. Federal Employment Taxes As a co-employer, the Company assumes responsibility and liability for the payment of federal and state employment taxes with respect to wages and salaries paid to client employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: (i) withholding of income tax governed by Code Section 3401, et seq.; (ii) obligations under FICA, governed by Code Section 3101, et seq.; and (iii) obligations under FUTA, governed by Code Section 3301, et seq. Under these Code sections, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Among other employment tax issues related to whether professional employer organizations are employers of client employees are issues under the Code provisions applicable to federal employment taxes. The issue arises as to whether the Company is responsible for payment of employment taxes on wages and salaries paid to such client employees. Code Section 3401(d)(1), which applies to federal income tax withholding requirements, contains an exception to the general common law test applied to determine whether an entity is an “employer” for purposes of federal income tax withholding. The courts have extended this exception to apply to both FICA and FUTA taxes as well. Code Section 3401(d)(1) states that if the person for whom services are rendered does not have control of the 15 Table of Contents payment of wages, the “employer” for this purpose is the person having control of the payment of wages. A third party can be deemed to be the employer of workers under this Section for income tax withholding purposes where the person for whom services are rendered does not have legal control of the payment of wages. Although several courts have examined Code Section 3401(d)(1) with regard to professional employer organizations, its ultimate scope has not been delineated. Moreover, the IRS has, to date, relied extensively on the common law test of employment in determining liability for failure to comply with federal income tax withholding requirements. Accordingly, while the Company believes that it can assume the withholding obligations for client employees, if the Company fails to meet these obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable. While this interpretive issue has not, to the Company’s knowledge, discouraged clients from utilizing the Company’s services, there can be no assurance that a definitive adverse resolution of this issue would not do so in the future. Significant Transactions in 2006 Share Repurchase Program On September 28, 2005, the Company announced that the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $50.0 million of the Company’s common stock. Stock repurchases under this program were to be made at such times and in such amounts as the Company deemed appropriate, based on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and overall market conditions. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had purchased 1,816,869 shares of its common stock at a cost of $49.4 million. The Company completed this share repurchase program in January 2006 with additional purchases of 23,933 shares at a cost of $0.6 million. On February 28, 2006, the Company announced that the board of directors had authorized the purchase of up to 1,000,000 additional shares of the Company’s common stock under a new share repurchase program. Share repurchases under this program were to be made through open market repurchases, block trades or in private transactions at such times and in such amounts as the Company deemed appropriate based upon a variety of factors including price, regulatory requirements, market conditions and other corporate opportunities. The Company completed this share repurchase program in September 2006 with a total purchase of 1,000,000 shares at a cost of $23.5 million. On August 15, 2006, the Company announced that the board of directors had authorized the purchase of up to an additional $75.0 million of the Company’s common stock under a new share repurchase program. Share repurchases under the new program are to be made through open market repurchases, block trades or in private transactions at such times and in such amounts as the Company deems appropriate based upon a variety of factors including price, regulatory requirements, market conditions and other corporate opportunities. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had purchased 1,343,763 shares of its common stock at a cost of $29.8 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2006 and through February 28, 2007, the Company purchased an additional 306,921 shares of its common stock under this repurchase plan at a cost of $6.7 million. All repurchased shares are included in treasury shares at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. See “Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for information regarding the 2006 fourth quarter common stock repurchase transactions. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth certain information with respect to each person who is an executive officer of the Company as of March 13, 2007. Name Age Position Erik Vonk 54 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Peter C. Grabowski 44 Chief Financial Officer Paul Benz 47 Chief Information Officer Michael Collins 43 Chief Marketing Officer Clifford M. Sladnick 50 Chief Administrative Officer 16 Table of Contents Erik Vonk has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer since April 2002. He was retired from February 2001 to April 2002. From 1992 until his retirement in February 2001, Mr. Vonk was President and Chief Executive Officer of Randstad North America, a subsidiary of Randstad Holding NV, a worldwide staffing services provider, where he was responsible for organizing the North American operations. From 1989 to 1992, Mr. Vonk served as a member of the executive board of Bank Cantrade AG. Mr. Vonk currently serves on the boards of directors of CBRL Group, Inc. and of Danka Business Systems, PLC, where he also serves on the human resource and Danka 21 committees. Peter C. Grabowski has served as Chief Financial Officer since June 2003. From May 1999 to June 2003, Mr. Grabowski served as the Company’s Vice President of Finance and Taxation and from August 1997 through May 1999 he served as Vice President of Tax. Prior to 1997, he served as Manager of International Taxation and Planning at Tambrands, Inc. after several years of public accounting experience, most recently with Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Grabowski is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Executive Institute and the Tax Executive Institute. Paul Benz has served as the Chief Information Officer since June 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Benz directed the Southeast region start-up of PriceWaterhouseCoopers’ Performance Improvement & Information Technology Effectiveness practice from 2004 to 2006. From 1993 to 2004, Mr. Benz served in various Vice Presidential roles for Pepsico’s Tropicana Chilled Direct Store Delivery business unit, most recently as Vice President, Finance and Information Technology. Michael Collins has served as the Chief Marketing Officer since March 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Collins most recently served as a Marketing Consultant to emerging technology companies, with a focus on product, brand and channel marketing from 2003 to 2006. From 2002 to 2003, Mr. Collins served as the Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer of Mercator Software, Inc. From 2001 to 2002, Mr. Collins served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Xchange, Inc. Clifford M. Sladnick has served as Chief Administrative Officer since July 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sladnick served as Managing Director and Acquisition Advisory Practice Leader for Dresner Companies from June 2004 to July 2005. From November 2003 to June 2004 Mr. Sladnick was co-owner of Hampden Partners. From February 2000 to November 2003, Mr. Sladnick served as Vice President, Acquisitions and Business Development, for the Brunswick Corporation, and from 1990 to 1999, he held positions of Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of St. Paul Bancorp, Inc. From 1981 to 1990, Mr. Sladnick was a partner in the corporate department of the law firm of McDermott, Will & Emery. Available Information You may read and copy any document the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 to obtain more information regarding the public reference room. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information filed electronically by public issuers (including the Company) with the SEC. The Company also makes available all reports and other documents it files or furnishes pursuant to the Exchange Act free of charge through the Investor Relations page on its website, www.gevity.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all employees and members of the Board of Directors of the Company, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other senior financial officers of the Company, a copy of which is available through the Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.gevity.com. The Company intends to disclose any amendments of, or waivers to, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on the Investor Relations page of its website. In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, statements of beneficial ownership of the Company’s equity securities filed by its directors, executive officers and 10% beneficial holders under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Company also posts on its website the charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee and Executive Committee. 17 Table of Contents Copies of these documents may also be obtained from the Company, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by writing to the Company at 9000 Town Center Parkway, Bradenton, FL 34202, Attention: Investor Relations, by telephoning the Company at 1-800-2GEVITY or by sending the Company an email via the Investor Relations page of its website, www.gevity.com. The information on the Company’s website and its content are for your convenience only. The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this report or filed with the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this filing, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Each of these risks is subject to many factors beyond our control. If we are not successful in managing our operating strategy, and each of its elements, we expect our results of operations and our stock price will decline. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to numerous risks. One important component of our growth strategy is to pursue selective acquisitions. For example, on February 19, 2007, we announced the acquisition of HRAmerica, Inc., an HR outsourcing firm. This strategy entails numerous risks, including the following: Integration & Operational Risks. We face risks associated with integrating new organizations, including their management, personnel and clients, into our established business. An inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could cause attrition of acquired personnel and clients. An acquisition may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management while we continue to incur operating expenses to provide the services provided formerly by the acquired company. Financial Risks. We may finance an acquisition with cash, by issuing equity securities (which could be dilutive to existing shareholders) or by incurring debt (which would increase our leverage and interest expense). We cannot assure you that we will be able to access the capital markets for these transactions, and, even if we were able to do so, we cannot assure you we would be able to obtain commercially reasonable terms for any such financing. Legal Risks. An acquired company may have liabilities that are difficult to assess, for which there are inadequate reserves and that may be significant. For example, employee benefit plans of an acquired company could result in liability due to the plan’s failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Completion Risks. Even if we pursue possible acquisition candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to close on them at attractive prices or at all. As a result, we may expend considerable resources (such as management time and money) on pursuing acquisitions without successfully acquiring any new businesses. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve this component of our growth strategy. These risks could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, these risks could be compounded if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate, and we may not be able to grow as we have planned. Our revenue, margins and results from operations generally have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Quarterly variations in our operating results occur as a result of a number of factors beyond our control, including: • competition for, and winning and maintaining, new clients with large employee counts; • our ability to achieve our strategy and long-term performance standards, including increasing professional service fees in general and as a percent of total revenue, opening new geographic offices and our ability to pass through costs of our products and services, such as rising health insurance premiums, among other elements of our strategy; 18 Table of Contents • charges due to workers’ compensation claims, health insurance claims, and state unemployment taxes; • new product introductions or announcements by us or our competitors; • client attrition; • market acceptance of new services; • managing down our operating and other expenses; • the costs of hiring and training of additional staff; and • general economic conditions. Due to the presence of any of these factors, we may not be able to sustain our level of total revenue or our historical rate of revenue growth on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results could fall below our targets and the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our short-term results may be negatively impacted due to changes in health insurance claims, state unemployment tax rates and workers’ compensation rates, which we may not be able to immediately pass through to our clients. Health insurance claims, workers’ compensation rates and state unemployment taxes are primarily determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our actual costs. Should we experience a significant increase in claims activity, we may experience a substantial increase in our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes, or workers’ compensation insurance rates. Our ability to pass such increases through to our clients on a timely basis may be delayed and our clients may not agree to the increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent upon key personnel, and the recruitment and retention of key employees may be difficult and expensive. We believe that the successful operation of our business is dependent upon our retention of key personnel, including and in particular, our chairman and chief executive officer, Erik Vonk. In general, the employment of our key personnel, including Mr. Vonk, may be terminated by either the employee or us at any time, without cause or advance notice, subject to severance obligations under specified circumstances. If any of these individuals, particularly Mr. Vonk, were unable or unwilling to continue working for us, we could have difficulty finding a replacement, and our operations and profitability could be adversely affected, which would likely have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, we are not the beneficiary under any life insurance contracts covering any of our key personnel. We also rely heavily upon stock options to supplement compensation for many of our key employees, and if we continue to grant options to these employees, the treatment of options as an expense in response to regulatory requirements may significantly increase our reported costs. If we cannot attract and retain qualified individuals, the quality of our services may deteriorate and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain HR consultants and business development managers (“BDMs”) who possess the specific skills and experience necessary to identify with and maintain clients. Finding and retaining qualified HR consultants and BDMs is difficult because of the specific skill set that we require in order for us to adequately operate in the complex HR regulatory environment. We compete for qualified HR consultants not only with other HR service providers, but also with internal HR departments. Our ability to attract and retain qualified HR consultants and BDMs could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels, restructuring of our compensation system, or competition from our competitors. 19 Table of Contents Our insurance-related loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We maintain loss reserves to cover our liabilities for the costs of our health care and workers’ compensation programs. These reserves are not an exact calculation of our liability, but rather are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections of claims administration and settlement costs and expenses. In addition to current and historical claims payment patterns and relevant trends, our health benefit reserves are based primarily on an independent actuarial estimate of claims incurred, but not reported, and claims reported but not yet paid. Our workers’ compensation reserves are based primarily on an independent actuarial estimate of future claims. Variables in the reserve estimation may be affected by both internal and external factors, such as changes in claims handling procedures, fluctuations in the administrative costs associated with the program, economic inflation, interest rates, legal determinations and legislative changes. Although our reserves estimates are regularly refined as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled, because of the uncertainties of estimating loss reserves, we cannot assure you that our reserves are adequate, and actual costs and expenses may exceed our reserves. If our reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur potentially material charges to our earnings. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if insurance coverage for workers’ compensation or medical benefits is not available or if we lose relationships with our key providers. As part of our full range of services, we offer medical benefits coverage and workers’ compensation insurance to our clients. We depend on a small number of key providers for the majority of our medical benefits and workers compensation coverage, including AIG, BCBSFL, UnitedHealthcare and Aetna. If any of our insurance providers discontinue coverage, the time and expense of providing replacement coverage could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Replacement coverage could lead to client dissatisfaction and attrition (especially since clients may terminate with either 30 or 45 days notice) due to the lack of continuity between coverage providers and the difference in the terms and conditions of their respective coverage plans. In addition, if at any time we are unable to renew our existing policies on financial terms and premium rates acceptable to us, our ability to provide such insurance and benefits to our clients would be adversely impacted, which could lead to significant client attrition, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our inability to renew existing policies may jeopardize compliance with state regulatory requirements and subject us to fines and extra costs to satisfy the state requirements or, at worst, eliminate our ability to provide services in those states. The loss of our ability to provide services, even for a short period, may negatively impact our image with our clients and lead to the termination of our service agreements. We may be required to provide significant cash collateral for our obligations to our insurance providers and the amount of cash necessary to provide that collateral may increase in the future. Our workers’ compensation provider requires, and our health care insurance providers may in the future require, cash collateralization of our insurance plans. The extent of such requirements is dependent upon several factors such as our financial condition, as well as the workers’ compensation and health insurance claims experience of our clients, over which we have little control except in the decision to initially accept and retain such clients. These collateral requirements may affect our need for capital, as well as our profitability. We may not be able to raise or provide the additional capital or collateral, if needed. In addition, we may be required to post additional collateral for the benefit of our insurance providers as a result of growing our business, which amounts could be significant, and may cause a significant amount of our cash to be restricted from other uses. Our workers’ compensation receivable from AIG represents a significant concentration of credit risk. If AIG were to default on its obligations our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, we have a workers’ compensation receivable from AIG that approximates $121.2 million for premium payments made to AIG for program years 2000-2006 in excess of the present value of the estimated claims liability and the related accrued interest receivable on those payments. If AIG were to cease 20 Table of Contents operations or otherwise default on this obligation we may not be able to recover the receivable and our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our business is subject to risks associated with vendor agreements. We rely on certain vendors to provide services to our clients. If these vendors cease operations, are sold or cancel/do not renew their service agreements with us, it may cause potential service interruptions while replacement providers are located, in addition to potential increases in costs of obtaining these services. Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration. While we currently have offices in 15 states and client employees in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, billings for our Florida operations accounted for approximately 54% in 2004, 55% in 2005 and 56% in 2006. As a result of the size of our base of client employees in Florida and anticipated continued growth from our Florida operations, our profitability over the next several years is expected to be largely dependent on economic and regulatory conditions in Florida. If the Florida economy experiences an economic downturn or its growth rate slows, our profitability and growth prospects, or perception of these things, may be adversely affected. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to duplicate in other markets the revenue growth and operating results experienced in Florida. Our headquarters, many of our clients’ headquarters, and the facilities of many of the third parties on which we rely to provide us and our clients with critical services are located in an area of the United States that is susceptible to hurricane damage and other natural disasters. Our Florida facilities, including our principal executive offices and field support offices, as well as certain of our vendors and a significant number of our clients are located in an area prone to natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and other adverse weather conditions. A hurricane or other disaster could significantly disrupt our services, particularly if it results in prolonged disruptions to the Internet and telecommunications services on which we heavily rely. The precautions that we have taken to protect ourselves and minimize the impact of such events (such as our disaster recovery plans) may not be adequate, and we may lose, not be able to access, or be unable to recover data, hardware, software and other systems used in our operations. In addition, our regional clients could also suffer the effects of a significant natural disaster and not be able to fulfill their contractual requirements pursuant to the terms of our professional services agreement. Our business could be materially and adversely affected should our ability to provide services and products, or our ability to collect our service fees, be impacted by such an event. We may find it difficult to expand our business into additional states due to varying state regulatory requirements and the existing competitive environment. We currently operate primarily in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. Future growth of our operations depends, in part, on our ability to offer our services and benefits to prospective clients in additional states. In order to operate effectively in a new state, we must obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, adapt our procedures to that state’s regulatory requirements and adapt our service offerings to local market conditions. We are also subject to additional competition from regional and local competitors in the markets in which we expand. In the event that we expand into additional states, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the financial performance experienced in our current markets. We operate in a complex regulatory environment and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. The HR environment is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, taxes, benefits administration, employment practices and data privacy. Because our clients have employees in states throughout the United States, we must perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to 21 Table of Contents ascertain or interpret and may change over time, and the addition of new services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. If we are unable to continue to provide certain contractual obligations, such as the payment of employment taxes on the salaries and wages paid to client employees, due to an adverse determination regarding our regulatory status as an “employer”, our clients may be held jointly and severally liable for such payments. Violation of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute breach of our client contracts and impair our ability to do business in various jurisdictions or in accordance with established processes. In addition, many states in which we operate have enacted laws that require licensing or registration of professional employer organizations, including Florida, our largest market, and Texas, and additional states are considering such legislation. We may not be able to satisfy the licensing requirements or other applicable regulations of any particular state, or we may be unable to renew our licenses in the states in which we currently operate upon expiration of such licenses, which could prevent us from providing services to client employees in a certain state. We face direct and overlapping competition from a number of other companies. In order to acquire new clients, we must first convince potential clients that a HR outsourcing provider is a superior option as compared to their current internal HR solutions. For potential clients that choose to outsource these services, we then face direct competition from a number of providers that also operate on a co-employment platform, such as Administaff, Inc., as well as companies that primarily provide payroll processing services in addition to co-employment services, such as Automatic Data Processing Inc. and Paychex, Inc. We also face competition from certain information technology outsourcing firms and broad-based outsourcing and consultancy firms that provide or may seek to provide HR outsourcing services in addition to consulting companies that perform individual projects, such as development of HR strategy and information systems. Historically, most of these vendors have focused on discrete processes, but many are now promoting integrated process management offerings that may compete with our offerings. This kind of competition is particularly significant to us given the strategic importance to us of growing professional service fees. We expect that market experience to date and the predicted growth of the HR outsourcing market will continue to attract and motivate more competitors. Certain of our existing or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients and key product and service suppliers than we do. This may enable them to develop and expand their delivery infrastructure and service offerings more quickly, which could adversely affect our ability to attain new clients. Certain of our existing or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients and key product and service suppliers than we do. This may enable them to develop and expand their delivery infrastructure and service offerings more quickly and: • achieve greater scale and cost efficiencies; adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changing client needs; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; establish operations in new markets more rapidly; • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services; and • adopt more aggressive pricing policies and provide clients with additional benefits at lower overall costs in order to gain market share or in anticipation of future improvements in delivery costs. If our competitive advantages are not compelling or sustainable and we are not able to effectively compete with larger competitors, then we may not be able to keep our clients, at profitable levels or at all, or even to increase or sustain profits. 22 Table of Contents The market for our services and our revenue growth depends on our ability to use the Internet as a means of delivering HR services and this exposes us to various security risks. We rely on the Internet as a primary mechanism for delivering services to our clients and use public networks to transmit and store extremely confidential information about our clients and their employees. Our target clients may not continue to be receptive to HR services delivered over the Internet because of concerns over transaction security, user privacy, the reliability and quality of Internet service and other reasons. A security breach could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address security breaches, and we cannot be certain that our security measures will be adequate. In addition, emerging or uncertain laws and regulations relating to Internet user privacy, property ownership, intellectual property, export of encryption technology, and libel could impair our existing Internet usage. This could decrease the popularity or impede the expansion of the Internet and decrease demand for our services. If we become subject to the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services, our profitability and growth prospects may be adversely affected. We are dependent upon technology services and any damage, interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems could adversely affect our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new clients. Our business could be interrupted and we may lose data as a result of damage to or disruption of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems from natural disasters, floods, fire, power loss, hardware or software malfunctions, penetration by computer hackers, terrorist acts, vandalism, sabotage, computer viruses, vendor performance failures or insolvency, and other causes. Our business involves the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information and any system or equipment failure we experience could adversely affect our clients’ businesses, and expose us to litigation and possible liability. In addition, as a result of any of the foregoing, our goodwill could be damaged, and we could be exposed to significant contractual liability. The precautions that we have taken to protect ourselves and minimize the impact of such events (such as our disaster recovery plans) may not be adequate, and we may be unable to recover data used in our operations. In addition, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose sales and clients. We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. If our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not timely integrate and update our systems, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be an adverse impact to our business and results of operations. We depend on the technology of third parties licensed to us, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, reduced service levels and delayed sales of our products and services. We rely on third-party vendors for software, and if their products are not available, or are inadequate, our business could be seriously harmed. For example, we process payroll for most of our client employees using Oracle’s HRMS and Payroll processing applications. Our service delivery capability incorporates and relies on Oracle software that we license directly from Oracle. If Oracle or our other software vendors change or fail to maintain a product that we are using or do not permit use of that product by our clients or us, or if our licensing agreements are terminated or not renewed, we could be forced to delay or discontinue our services until substitute 23 Table of Contents technology can be found, licensed and installed. We could also be forced to pay significantly higher licensing fees with respect to such substitute technology. In addition, our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party services and products, and any undetected errors in these products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions, and harm our reputation and sales. Our professional services agreement allows clients to terminate their relationship with us upon either 30 or 45 days notice, and as a result, we could lose a significant number of customers in a short period of time. In order to utilize our professional services, each of our clients is required to enter into our professional services agreement, which generally provides for an initial one-year term, subject to termination by our client or us at any time upon either 30 or 45 days prior written notice. Following the initial term, the contract may be renewed, terminated or continued on a month-to-month basis. As a result, a significant number of our clients may terminate their agreement with us at any time. In particular, they may decide to discontinue our services or their relationship with us due to our attempts to increase our professional and other services fees or increase our medical or workers’ compensation insurance premiums. Clients may also be unwilling to pay for broadened service offerings if additional or increased fees accompany such changes. These termination provisions could cause us to lose a significant number of customers in a short period of time or make it difficult for us to increase our prices, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. As a result of our co-employment relationship with most of our clients and client employees, we may be subject to liabilities as a result of their acts or omissions. We enter into a contractual relationship with each of our clients, whereby the client transfers certain employment-related risks and liabilities to us and retains other risks and liabilities. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of this “co-employment” relationship. Consequently, we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients despite the contractual division of responsibilities between us, even if we do not participate in such violations. This risk is increased with respect to clients serviced by our HR consultants who are located on-site at our clients’ offices and who are designated service representatives of one or two clients because of their greater presence on a client’s premises and potential involvement in client employee relations. In addition, our client employees may also be deemed to be acting as our agents, subjecting us to further liability for the acts or omissions of such client employees. Although our professional services agreement provides that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual indemnification. Any such liability imposed upon us could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments of behalf of our clients, we are exposed to certain credit risks with respect to our larger clients. Under the terms of our professional services agreement, we generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with each of our client’s employee payroll obligations, including the payment of salaries, wages and associated taxes, and, at the client’s option, the responsibility for providing group health, welfare and retirement benefits to each client employee. In this “co-employment” relationship, we directly assume these obligations, and unlike payroll processing service providers, we issue payroll checks to each client employee drawn on our own bank accounts. Our obligation to make these payments is fixed for the period of time in which a client’s employees remain co-employees of ours, even if the client fails to satisfy its contractual obligation to us to remit its payroll, taxes and associated service fees. If we are unable to collect these payments from our larger clients, we may face significant adverse impact. If we are determined not to be an “employer” pursuant to applicable ERISA and IRS rules and regulations, we may be subject to additional regulations and liabilities. If it is determined that we are not the “employer” for purposes of ERISA, we could be subject to liabilities, including penalties, with respect to our cafeteria benefits plan operated under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue 24 Table of Contents Code of 1986, as amended, for failure to withhold and pay taxes applicable to salary deferral contributions by our client employees. As a result of such a finding, we and our plans may not enjoy, with respect to our client employees, the preemption of state laws provided by ERISA, and we could be subject to additional varying state laws and regulation, as well as to claims based upon state common law. We may not be successful in recovering the remaining premium we paid to a Bermuda reinsurance company that is subject to liquidation proceeding. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in recovering the remaining $1.65 million in premium that we paid to a Bermuda reinsurance company that became the subject of a liquidation proceeding in Bermuda. The reinsurer became subject to the liquidation proceeding as a result of its failure to meet regulatory obligations of the Bermuda Monetary Authority. In the second quarter of 2006 we recorded a loss for the full amount of the premium we paid to the reinsurer for coverage in 2006 ($4.65 million) and then recovered a portion of the premium in the third quarter of 2006 ($3.0 million). There are several risks to the recovery of all or a portion of the remaining premium including a potential lack of funds in the estate and the potential for an adverse ruling in the liquidation proceeding. Our new credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. Our new credit agreement restricts us and our subsidiaries from various actions, including the following, in each case subject to various specified exceptions: • incurring liens and debt; • metering investments; • entering into a merger, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or undergoing a change of control; • selling assets; • paying dividends and metering other restricted payments; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • enter into agreements that limit the ability of our subsidiaries from paying dividends, debt, loans or entering into other restrictions; • amending the terms of other debt of ours; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • materially modifying our workers compensation arrangements. We are also required to maintain financial covenants regarding leverage, coverage and fixed charges. These restrictions may limit our financial and operating flexibility and, as a result, reduce our ability to grow and execute on our strategic objectives. As of December 31, 2006, there were no outstanding advances under the credit agreement. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Florida law may limit the ability of our shareholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company, which may not be in your best interests. There are provisions in our articles of incorporation that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our shareholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. In addition, we have entered into a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” that may delay or prevent a change of control. 25 Table of Contents Additionally, we are subject to statutory “anti-takeover” provisions under Florida law. Section 607.0901 of the Florida Business Corporation Act (the “FBCA”) imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 10% or more of our outstanding voting shares and requires approval by the corporation’s disinterested directors or a supermajority of uninterested shareholders for certain business combinations and corporate transactions with the interested shareholder or any entity or individual controlled by the interested shareholder, unless certain statutory exemptions apply. Section 607.0902 of the FBCA eliminates the voting rights of common stock acquired by a party who, by such acquisition, controls at least 20% of all voting rights of the corporation’s issued and outstanding stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 