Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, prospective investors should carefully consider risk factors before investing in the Company’s securities. The Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or trading price of its securities could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks or by others that cannot currently be identified. 12 Risks Relating to Operations: The Company is subject to risks of decreased advertising and circulation revenues and potentially adverse effects of emerging technologies. The Company’s business is concentrated in newspapers, Web sites and other print publications located primarily in small metropolitan and suburban areas in six regions of the United States. Revenues in the newspaper industry primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. These revenues have declined in the last few years. Competition for advertising and paid circulation comes from local, regional and national newspapers, shopping guides, television, radio, direct mail, online services and other forms of print and digital communication and advertising media. Competition for advertising revenues is based largely upon advertiser results, readership, advertising rates, demographics and circulation levels; while competition for circulation and readership is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, the effectiveness of its distribution, as well as demographics. In recent years, the Company has faced increasing competition from online so urces, including digital formats not connected to newspapers, which have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company depends on the economies and demographics of local communities in its markets and is susceptible to general economic downturns, which could have an adverse affect on its results of operations. The Company’s advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues are dependent on a variety of factors specific to the communities that the Company’s newspapers serve. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, local economic conditions in general, and the related retail segments in particular, as well as local weather conditions. The Company, as well as others in the newspaper industry, is susceptible to a general advertising recession. The Company has placed an emphasis on building its digital/online business. Failure to fulfill this undertaking would adversely affect its future business growth and profitability. The Company is seeking to grow its online revenues through a number of digital media initiatives. As part of its growth strategy, the Company is expending resources on developing digital/online products and services internally as well as entering strategic partnership with existing online businesses. There can be no assurances that the Company’s digital media initiatives will be successful or result in significant online revenue growth. The Company has historically grown through acquisitions which subject it to considerable business and financial risk. Although, the Company has grown in part through acquisitions of daily and non-daily newspapers, similar publications and other strategic acquisitions, given the current competing demands for the Company’s capital resources and limitations contained in its Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is unlikely to grow its business though significant acquisitions in the near term. Acquisitions may expose the Company to risks, including, without limitation, diversion of management’s attention, assumption of unidentified liabilities and assimilation of the operations and personnel of acquired businesses, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Acquisitions may also have a dilutive impact on the Company’s earnings per share depending on the value and nature of the consideration paid by the Company for such acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the Company competes for a cquisition targets with other companies, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources than does the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in identifying future acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of such opportunities, executing acquisitions successfully, achieving anticipated synergies, evaluating the costs of new growth opportunities at existing operations or managing the publications it owns and improving their operating efficiency. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition could suffer if there is a significant increase in the price of newsprint or a reduction in its availability. The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint. The Company purchases the majority of its newsprint through its central purchasing group, Journal Register Supply, and has no long-term contracts 13 to purchase newsprint. Generally, Journal Register Supply purchases most of its newsprint from one or two suppliers, although in the future the Company may purchase newsprint from other suppliers. Historically, the percentage of newsprint purchased from each supplier has varied. The Company’s management believes that concentrating its newsprint purchases in this way provides a more secure newsprint supply and lower unit prices. The Company’s management also believes that it purchases newsprint at price levels lower than those that are generally available to individually owned small metropolitan and suburban newspapers, and consistent with price levels generally available to the largest newsprint purchasers. The available sources of newsprint have been, and the Company believes will continue to be, adequate to supply the Company’s needs. The inability of the Company to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and res ults of operations of the Company. Historically, the price of newsprint has been cyclical and subject to price fluctuations. The Company believes that if any price decrease or increase is sustained in the industry, the Company will also be impacted by such change. The Company seeks to manage the effects of increases in prices of newsprint through a combination of, among other things, technology improvements, including web-width reductions, inventory management, and advertising and circulation price increases. In addition, the Company’s transition to online media may result in less newsprint usage in the future. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to mitigate increases in price or disruption in the supply of newsprint. The Company’s operating results could be adversely impacted if the value of its intangible assets are not fully realized. The Company’s total assets at December 30, 2007 reflect goodwill and other intangible assets (net) of approximately $613.1 million and $76.4 million, or 65.7 percent and 8.2 percent of total asset, respectively. There can be no assurance that such goodwill or intangible assets will be realized. The Company evaluates, on a periodic basis, or more frequently if warranted, whether the carrying value of these assets may no longer be completely recoverable, in which case a charge to operations for impairment losses could become necessary. Any event or change in circumstances leading to future determination requiring an additional write-off of a significant portion of these assets could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to collective bargaining agreements and strikes or other union activities could have an adverse affect on its business. Certain of the Company’s employees at some of its newspapers are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company is unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements, or significant labor disputes could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations that could cause it to incur significant compliance expenditures and liabilities. The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to air and water quality, storage tanks and the management and disposal of waste at its facilities. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations as currently interpreted. The Company cannot predict with any certainty whether future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to the Company, may give rise to additional costs that could be material. Furthermore, actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. 14 The Company is subject to various tax laws and regulations in the United States and certain state and local jurisdictions in which it operates. Changes in those laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company is subject to changes in federal, state, and local taxes. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning tax matters could result in laws or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Risks Relating to Liquidity: The Company’s Amended Credit Agreement contains a number of operating restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict the way the Company operates the business and may negatively impact its ability to finance future needs. If the Company violates these restrictions or covenants, it will be in default under the Amended Credit Agreement. In December 2007, the Company entered into its Amended Credit Agreement. The Amended Credit Agreement imposes a number of restrictions on the Company, some of which become more restrictive over time. A failure to comply with these restrictions could adversely affect the Company’s ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility or result in an event of default under the Amended Credit Agreement. Under the Amended Credit Agreement, there are limitations on certain corporate activities, including, among other things, acquisition of assets, disposition of assets, the incurrence of additional debt, the making of loans or investments, the creation of liens, the making of capital expenditures and the prepayment of indebtedness. The Amended Credit Agreement prohibits the payment of dividends and repurchase of common stock. The Amended Credit Agreement also contains financial and other covenants that create limitations on the Company’s ability to, among other things, borrow the full amount on its revolver and requires it to maintain various financial ratios and comply with various financial covenants. These financial ratios include the following: • The Amended Credit Agreement requires that the Company’s Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement) not exceed a specified multiple. As of December 30, 2007, the Total Leverage Ratio was required not to exceed 6.75x. The Total Leverage Ratio decreases to 6.65x as of July 1, 2008, 6.50x as of October 1, 2008, 6.30x as of January 1, 2009 and decreases further, thereafter; and • The Amended Credit Agreement requires that the Company’s minimum Interest Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement) be at least 1.85x through December 31, 2010 and increases to 2.00x, thereafter. The Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants of the Amended Credit Agreement as of December 30, 2007, although it cannot provide assurance that it will remain in compliance in subsequent periods. Continued compliance with the Company’s financial covenants will depend on the future performance of the business and its ability to curtail the negative revenue trends experienced in prior periods as well as the ability to address the risks set forth under Risks Relating to Operations. In the event of a default, its lenders could terminate their commitments to the Company and declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and fees, immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, the Company might not be able to pay these amounts or it might be forced to seek an amendment or waiver which could make the terms of the agreement more onerous for the Company and require the payment of amendment or waiver fees. The Compan y cannot provide assurance that lenders would consent to any amendment or waiver of any covenant violations. Any future amendment required would be subject to current credit market conditions at that time which may result in an increase in cost to the Company. The Company’s leverage may adversely affect its business and financial performance and may restrict its operating flexibility. The level of the Company’s indebtedness and its ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service may expose it to a risk that a substantial decrease in operating cash flows due to economic developments or adverse developments in its business, including declines in advertising revenue, could make it difficult to 15 meet debt service requirements. In addition, the Company leverage may limit cash flow available for general corporate purposes, such as capital expenditures and its flexibility in reacting to competitive, technological and other changes in its industry and economic conditions, generally. Risks Relating to the Company’s Common Stock: The market price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be affected by, among other things: • Variations in its quarterly operating results; • Changes in financial estimates by analysts; • Changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial and credit markets; • Changes in accounting policies, standards or interpretations; • Issuances of equity securities by the Company; • Other developments affecting the Company, its industry, its advertisers or its competitors; and • The operating and stock performance of comparable companies. If the Company cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange (‘‘NYSE’’) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist its common stock. The Company’s common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In the future, it may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, which require, among other things; (i) that the average closing price be above $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days; (ii) that the market capitalization or stockholders’ equity be at least $75 million over 30 consecutive trading days; and (iii) that the market capitalization be at least $25 million over 30 consecutive trading days. The Company’s closing stock price on March 13, 2008 was $0.90, its market capitalization was approximately $35 million and its stockholders’ equity was $91.1 million at December 30, 2007. If the Company is unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, the Company’s common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of its common stock could negatively impact the Company by: reducing the liquidity and market price of its common stock; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire its common stock, which could negatively impact its ability to raise equity financing; and may limit its ability to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing it from accessing the public capital markets. The Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends and engage in stock repurchases of its common stock are prohibited by the Amended Credit Agreement. The Company eliminated its quarterly dividend program in October 2007 and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on, or making repurchases of, its common stock in the near future. In addition, covenants in its Amended Credit Agreement, prohibits payments of cash dividends and repurchases of its common stock and restricts its ability to make certain other payments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 16 