Risk Factors Factors That Could Affect Future Results We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will return to or maintain non-GAAP profitability. Our recurring revenue model resulted in Non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("non-GAAP") quarterly operating profits which started in the third quarter of 2010, and which continued throughout 2011. However, the profits were insufficient to offset GAAP losses over those periods, and we did not experience non-GAAP operating profits during 2012. Specifically, on a GAAP basis, we incurred net losses of $27.7 million in 2012, $15.8 million in 2011, and $12.7 million in 2010. Revenues from perpetual licenses and professional services continue to be below historical levels, and we do not expect revenues from either to return to the levels we experienced prior to our transition to a recurring revenue model. To achieve non-GAAP profitability, we must further increase our total revenues, principally by growing our recurring revenue offerings by entering into more and/or larger transactions, maintaining or reducing the rate of existing customer cancellations, and ensuring that our cost structure is aligned with our recurring revenue model. Our ability to increase recurring revenue in 9 Table of Contents 2013 will be adversely affected by the loss starting in the second quarter of 2013 of a significant customer that accounted for approximately $1.5 million per quarter in recurring revenue in 2012. We must also continue the cost cutting actions entered into during 2012 to continue to reduce expenses. If we cannot increase our recurring revenue and control costs, our future results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected and we may be unable to return to non-GAAP profitability. We continue to monitor and manage our expenses in an effort to further optimize our performance for the long-term. However, there is no assurance that these steps will be adequate and unforeseen expenses, difficulties or delays may prevent us from realizing our goals. We may need to incur restructuring expenses or implement other cost reduction efforts in the future and, even with these or any future actions, we cannot be sure that we will achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, we cannot be certain the steps we have taken to control our costs in the near term will not adversely affect our prospects for long-term revenue growth. If we cannot increase our total revenues, continue to improve our gross margins, and control our costs, our future operating results and financial condition will be negatively affected. If we are unable to increase the profitability of our recurring revenue products and services, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources to expand, market, and refine our recurring revenue products and services offerings. Our recurring revenue business model, and our on-demand services in particular, has generally generated much lower gross margins than our traditional perpetual license sales. If we are unable to continue increasing the volume of our on-demand business or improving gross margins in our recurring revenue product and services offerings, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Factors that could harm our ability to improve our gross margins include: •significant attrition as customers decide for their own economic or other reasons to not renew their on-demand contracts; •increased cost of third-party services providers, including hosting facilities for our on-demand operations and professional services contractors performing implementation and technical support services to on-demand customers as well as inefficiencies, delays and unacceptable quality from such vendors; •increased cost to license and maintain third-party software embedded in our solution or the cost to create or substitute such third-party software if it can no longer be licensed on commercially reasonable terms; •the inability to implement, or delays in implementing, technology-based efficiencies and efforts to streamline and consolidate processes to reduce operating costs; •our inability to maintain or increase the prices customers pay for our products and services based on competitive pricing pressures and limited customer demand; •customer contractual requirements that delay revenue recognition until customer implementations commence production operations or customer-specific requirements are met; •higher wage and benefits costs for our existing personnel or the need to increase the number of our employees to support increasing customer demands for our professional services, technical support or general operations; and •increased costs of integrating our recent acquisitions and related products. 10 Table of Contents Acquisitions and investments present many risks. We may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions, and may not be able to successfully integrate and manage the acquired businesses. We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand and enhance our product and services offerings to meet our customers' needs, increase our market opportunities and grow revenues, both through internal development efforts and external acquisitions and partnerships. We completed six acquisitions in 2011, two acquisitions in 2012, and we may continue to acquire or make investments in other companies, products, services and technologies in the future. Acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including the following: •the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition, such as an increase in revenues, may not materialize if, for example, a larger number of customers that we expected choose not to renew product and services or if we are not able to cross-sell the acquired company's products and services to our existing customer base; •we may have difficulty integrating the personnel of the acquired business and in retaining the key employees, and to the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options, to such individuals, existing stockholders may be diluted; •we may have difficulty integrating and managing the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines, and in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; •our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of overseeing geographically and culturally diverse locations; •we may find that the acquired business or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the business or assets, or that we do not realize the expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits; •we may fail to uncover or realize the significance of certain liabilities and other issues that we assume from an acquired business or otherwise become exposed to, such as claims from terminated employees or third-parties and unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting practices; •we may experience challenges in, and have difficulty penetrating, new markets where we have little or no prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions; •we may experience customer confusion as a result of product overlap, particularly when we offer, price and support various product lines differently; •we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies, including intellectual property-related disputes and write-off of goodwill or other intangible assets; and •our use of cash consideration for one or more significant acquisitions may require us to use a substantial portion of our available cash or incur substantial debt, and if we incur substantial debt, it could result in material limitations on the conduct of our business. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. In addition, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions investments that are not ultimately consummated, which could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket expenses. 11 Table of Contents Breaches of security or failure to safeguard customer data could create the perception that our products and services are not secure, causing customers to discontinue or reject the use of our products or services and potentially subject us to significant liability. Implementing, monitoring and maintaining adequate security safeguards may be costly. Our on-demand service allows customers to access our solutions and transmit confidential data, including personally identifiable individual data of their employees, agents, and customers over the Internet. We also store data provided to us by our customers on servers in third-party data warehouses. In addition, we may have access to confidential and private individual data as part of our professional services organization activities, including implementation, maintenance and support of our software for term and perpetual license customers. Moreover, many of our customers are subject to heightened security obligations regarding the personally identifiable information of their downstream customers. In the United States, these heightened obligations particularly affect the financial services, healthcare and insurance sectors, which are subject to stringent controls over personal information under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. In addition, the European Union Directive on Data Protection as well as the laws and regulations of the Member States of the European Union implementing the directive create international obligations on the protection of personal data that typically exceed security requirements mandated in the United States. The security measures we have implemented and may need to implement, monitor and maintain in the future to satisfy the requirements of our customers may be substantial and involve significant time and effort, which are typically not chargeable to our customers. If we do not adequately safeguard the information imported into our solutions or otherwise provided to us by our customers, or if third parties penetrate our systems or security and misappropriate our customers' confidential information, our reputation may be damaged and we may be sued and incur substantial damages in connection with such events. Even if it is determined that our security measures were adequate, the damage to our reputation may cause customers and potential customers to reconsider the use of our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Decreases in retention rates for customer on-demand subscription or on-premise maintenance arrangements could materially impact our future revenues or operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew our on-demand service or maintenance support transactions after the expiration of the respective initial subscription or maintenance period, which is typically 12 to 24 months, and some customers have elected not to renew. Our customers may renew for fewer payees or renew for shorter contract lengths. In addition, we offer a pay-as-you-go model, whereby customers can pay for our on-demand service on a monthly basis without a long-term commitment, which may unexpectedly increase the rate of customer non-renewals and thus negatively and unpredictably affect our recurring revenue during a particular reporting period. Our customer retention rates, including the retention of customers gained from the addition of our recently acquired products, may decline If our customers' renewal rates decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their reduced spending levels, their decision to do more of the work themselves internally, or dissatisfaction with our service, our revenue will be adversely affected and our business will suffer. 12 Table of Contents Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services and enhance our existing products and services rapidly and cost-effectively. Failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products and services may adversely affect our operating results. SaaS sales effectiveness solution and cloud computing markets are generally characterized by: •Rapid technological advances; •changing customer needs; and •frequent new product introductions and enhancements. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, achieve market acceptance and effectively respond to competition, we must quickly identify emerging trends and requirements, accurately define and design enhancements and improvements for existing products and services, and introduce new products and services. Accelerated introductions and short product life cycles for products and services require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results. Further, any new products or services we develop may not be introduced in a timely manner or be available in a distribution model acceptable to our target markets, and may therefore not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are unable to quickly and successfully develop or acquire and distribute new products and services cost-effectively, or enhance existing products and services, or if we fail to position and price our products and services to meet market demand, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our operations insourcing as well as use of offshore product development, support and professional services may prove difficult to manage or of inadequate quality to allow us to realize our cost reduction goals and produce new products and services and provide professional services in order to drive growth. During 2012, we entered into a build, operate and transfer agreement with an India-based contractor who previously performed certain engineering services for product development, customer technical support and professional consulting services. The agreement migrated these services to our wholly-owned Indian subsidiary, CallidusCloud (India) PvtLtd. To successfully transition these services to internal operations requires us to integrate these individuals and operations and we may not realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings. In addition, we only recently acquired our Indian subsidiary as part of the LeadFormix, Inc. acquisition in January 2012, and we may experience problems integrating these operations with our existing operations and customer environment. Our use of offshore resources to perform new product and services development, and provide support and professional consulting efforts has also required, and will continue to require, detailed technical and logistical coordination. We must ensure that international resources are aware of and understand development specifications and customer support, implementation and configuration requirements and that they can meet applicable timelines or, if they are not met, that any delays are not significant. We may not be able to maintain acceptable standards of quality in support, product development and professional services. If we are unable to successfully maintain the quality of services provided by our international third-party service providers, our attempts to reduce costs and drive growth through new products and margin improvements in technical support and professional services may be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Outsourcing services to offshore providers may expose us to misappropriation of our intellectual property or that of our customers, or make it more difficult to defend our rights in our technology. We still expect to use other offshore third-parties to perform technical services in the future. 13 Table of Contents Errors in our products and interruptions in our services could be costly to correct and time consuming to repair, and adversely affect our reputation and impair our ability to sell our products and services. Our products and services are complex and, accordingly, they may contain errors, or "bugs." Any errors or vulnerabilities could be extremely costly to correct, materially and adversely affect our reputation and impair our ability to sell our products and services. Further, our efforts to reduce costs by employing more subcontracting personnel to perform product development, technical support, professional services and application hosting tasks may make it more difficult for us to timely respond to product errors and service interruptions. Moreover, customers relying on our products to calculate and pay incentive compensation may have a greater sensitivity to product errors, security vulnerabilities and service interruptions than in other applications. If we incur substantial costs to correct any product errors or repair service availability issues, our operating margins will be adversely affected. Because our customers depend on our products and services for their critical business functions, any interruptions could result in lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products and services, product liability suits against us, diversion of development resources and substantially greater service level credits and warranty costs than anticipated or accrued. Furthermore, we rely on internal resources and facilities to deliver our on-demand solution. These facilities are vulnerable to damage and service interruptions particularly considering they are located in areas known for risks from natural and other types of disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, power losses, and telecommunications failures. Interruptions in the services provided by these facilities may result in unexpected and possibly lengthy service interruptions. Any service interruptions, regardless of the cause, may result in material liability claims against us for breach of service level commitments to our customers, customer terminations and damage to our reputation. The transfer of our on demand infrastructure may result in interruptions to service or other difficulties which may negatively impact our customers. Our products and services deliver solutions by using an integrated architecture environment, which has previously been provided through third-party facilities. We are in the process of building a new, in-house data center in Santa Clara, CA to support our on demand solutions. Our new systems, procedures or controls might not be adequate to support this new function. Further, these functions are complex and disruptions to the environment could occur during the transfer of customers to the new data center, which may result in increased exposure to remediation efforts and liability claims against us for breach of service level commitments to our customers, customer terminations and damage to our reputation and future business prospects. We might not be able to manage our operations efficiently or profitably. The actions we have taken, such as acquiring various companies and transitioning certain functions from external to internal resources, and may take in the future, may cause disruptions in or add complexity to our operations. During periods of growth in our operations, we will likely need to expand the size of our staff, grow and manage our related operations and third-party partnerships, and potentially amplify our financial and accounting controls to ensure they remain effective. Such changes may increase our expenses, and there is no assurance that our infrastructure will be sufficiently scalable to efficiently manage any growth that we may experience. If we are unable to leverage our operating cost investments as a percentage of revenues, our ability to generate or increase profits will be adversely impacted. 14 Table of Contents The market for sales talent lifecycle, including sales effectiveness products and services may not continue to develop or grow as we expect. Our market for sales talent lifecycle including sales effectiveness services and products is evolving. We believe one of our key challenges is to be able to demonstrate the benefit of our products and services to prospective customers such that they place purchases of our products and services at a higher priority relative to other projects. Our financial performance depends in large part on continued growth in the number of organizations adopting sales effectiveness and other related solutions to manage the performance of their sales organizations. The market for sales effectiveness solutions may not develop as we expect, or at all. Moreover, our competitors may be more successful than we are in capturing the market. In either case, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. A substantial majority of our revenues are derived from our Commissions solution and related products and services, and a decline in those sales could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial majority of our product revenues from our Commissions solution and related products and services, and are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for that solution. Accordingly, if demand for our Commissions application and related products and services decline significantly, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to continue to fluctuate, possibly substantially, which may harm our results of operations, and because we recognize revenue from subscriptions from our on-demand service and maintenance agreements over a period of time, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. Because we generally recognize on-demand and maintenance revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription and maintenance support agreements, most of the recurring revenues we report in each quarter result from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions and maintenance in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our on-demand services and term licenses or increases in customer attrition may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our on-demand subscription model also makes it more difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In addition, although our revenue is primarily focused on recurring revenues, we anticipate continuing to recognize perpetual license revenue, particularly with international customers. Perpetual license revenue is difficult to forecast and is likely to fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are wholly or partially beyond our control. Our ongoing focus on our on-demand business resulted in lower revenues from perpetual licenses and decreased customer expenditures on professional services in 2012 when compared to historical levels. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as definitive indicators of future performance. Factors that may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate include: •the discretionary nature of our customers' purchase and budget cycles and changes in their budgets for sales effectiveness solutions and related purchases, as well as the priority our customers place on our products as compared to other information technology and capital acquisitions; 15 Table of Contents •competitive conditions in our industry, including new product introductions, product announcements and discounted pricing or special payment terms offered by our competitors; •changes in the average selling prices of our products; •the pay-as-you-go subscription model without long-term customer commitments; •varying size, timing and contractual terms of orders for our products, which may delay the recognition of revenues; •indeterminate and often lengthy sales cycles; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; •merger and acquisition activities among our customers, which may alter their buying patterns, or failure of potential customers, which may reduce demand for our products and services; •the extent to which our customer's needs for professional services are reduced as a result of product improvements as well as implementation efficiencies; •the utilization rate of our professional services personnel and the degree to which we use third-party consulting services; •the rates the market will bear for our professional services and our ability to efficiently and profitably perform such services based on those market rates; and •increased operating expenses associated with channel sales and increased product development efforts. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires an effective planning and management process. In 2012, we transitioned from a number of disparate systems and implemented Netsuite, a SaaS enterprise resource planning software. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. If we experience a significant deficiency, material weakness or any other delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. Our services revenues produce substantially lower gross margins than our recurring and license revenues, and periodic variations in the proportional relationship between services revenues and higher margin recurring and license revenues have harmed, and may continue to harm, our overall gross margins. Our services revenues, which include fees for consulting, implementation and training, were 21%, 21%, and 21% of our revenues for 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Our services revenues have substantially lower gross margins than our recurring and license revenues. Historically, services revenues as a percentage of total revenues have varied significantly from period to period due to a number of circumstances including fluctuations in licensing and, to a lesser extent, recurring revenues, changes in the average selling prices for our products and services, and the effectiveness and appeal of competitive service providers. More recently, the extent of the fluctuations has diminished, primarily as a consequence of decreased need for consulting services and fewer perpetual license transactions under our recurring revenue model. However, while the fluctuation in the percentage of services revenues as compared to total revenues has moderated on a quarterly basis, we 16 Table of Contents continue to expect wider variability in services revenue itself from quarter-to-quarter, principally as the number of new recurring revenue customer transactions varies from quarter to quarter. In addition, the volume and profitability of services can depend in large part upon: •competitive pricing pressure on the rates that we can charge for our professional services; •the timing of milestone acceptance contracts; •increases or decreases in the number of services projects being performed on a fixed bid or acceptance basis that may defer recognition of revenue; •the timing and amount of any remediation services related to professional services warranty claims; •the complexity of the customers' information technology environments; •the priority and resources customers place on their implementation projects; and •the extent to which outside consulting organizations provide services directly to customers. As an example of the pressure on our services offerings, many prospective customers outsource technology projects offshore to take advantage of lower labor costs. We also utilize offshore subcontracting resources to provide professional services at competitive market rates. Additionally, market rates for the types of professional services we offer vary depending on the geographic regions where the services are performed. Moreover, as we expand our international services operations, revenues may be impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Consequently, as our customer base expands internationally, we expect greater variation in the proportion of services revenues compared to our other higher margin recurring and license revenues, which may increase or erode margins for our service revenues and our overall gross margins. The loss of key personnel, higher than normal employee attrition in key departments, or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the abilities and effectiveness of our personnel, and in particular our president and chief executive officer and our other executive officers. All of our existing personnel, including our executive officers, are employed on an "at-will" basis. If we lose or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise competes with us, it could impair our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Likewise, if a number of employees from specific departments were to depart, our short-term ability to maintain business operations and implement our business plan may be impaired. Additionally, if we are unable to quickly hire qualified replacements for our executives, other key positions or employees within specific departments, our ability to execute our business plan could be harmed. Even if we can quickly hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees and subcontractors, including sales, professional services, technical support and engineering personnel, our growth may be impaired. To expand our business successfully and maintain a high level of quality, we need to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and subcontractors in all areas of our business, including sales, professional services and engineering. In particular, if we are unable to hire or subcontract for and retain talented professional services and technical support personnel with the skills, and in the locations, we require, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain labor needs. As our customer base increases and as we continue to evaluate and modify our organizational structure to increase efficiency, we are likely to experience staffing constraints in connection with the deployment of trained and experienced professional services and support resources capable of implementing, configuring, maintaining and supporting our product and related services. Moreover, as a company focused on the development of complex products and the provision of online services, we are often in need of additional software developers and engineers. We have relied on our ability to grant equity compensation as one mechanism for recruiting, retaining and motivating such highly skilled personnel. Our current Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Incentive Plan expires in November 2013, and our ability to provide equity compensation depends, in part, upon receiving stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans. If we are not able to secure such approval from our stockholders, our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our personnel may be adversely impacted, which would negatively impact our operating results. If we do not compete effectively, our revenues may not grow and could decline. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition from a number of software companies. We compete principally with vendors of sales effectiveness software, Enterprise Incentive Management ("EIM") software, enterprise resource planning software, and customer relationship management software. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers and/or changing industry standards. Increased competition may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our enterprise resource planning competitors and other potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources. Many also have a larger installed base of users, longer operating histories or greater name recognition. Some of our competitors' products may also be more effective at performing particular sales effectiveness or EIM system functions or may be more customized for particular customer needs in a given market. Even if our competitors provide products with less SPM or EIM system functionality than our products, their products may incorporate other capabilities, such as recording and accounting for transactions, customer orders or inventory management data. A product that performs these functions, as well as some of the functions of our solutions, may be appealing to some customers because it would reduce the number of applications used to run their business. Our products generally must be integrated with software provided by a number of our existing or potential competitors. These competitors could alter their products in ways that inhibit integration with ours, or they could deny or delay our access to advance software releases, which would restrict our ability to adapt our products for integration with their new releases and could result in the loss of both sales opportunities and renewals of on-demand services and maintenance. Although we believe that our products and services currently compete effectively with those of our competitors and internally-developed solutions, the market for sales effectiveness products is rapidly evolving. Our larger competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service, and other resources. Many of these companies also have a larger installed base of users, longer operating histories, and greater name recognition. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements, or may announce new products, services, or enhancements that 18 Table of Contents better meet the needs of customers or changing industry standards. In addition, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Increased competition may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenues and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success and ability to compete is dependent on the proprietary technology embedded in our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, contractual provisions and other similar measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We cannot protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect its unauthorized use. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and/or reverse engineer our products and services and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. The provisions in our license agreements prohibiting unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed programs and services may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent that we engage in international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products, services and proprietary information increases. We enter into confidentiality and license agreements, as applicable, with our employees and consultants and with customers and third parties with whom we have strategic relationships. We cannot ensure that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products, services and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and services. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our trade secrets. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to a protracted infringement claim or one that results in a significant damage award. From time to time, we receive claims that our products, services offerings or business infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of third parties, and our competitors or other third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. For more information, see "Item 3, Legal Proceedings". We believe that claims of infringement are likely to increase as the functionality of our products and services expand and as new products and services are introduced. Claims may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. Any infringement claim, regardless of the merit of such claim or our defense, could: •require costly litigation to resolve; •absorb significant management time; •cause us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements; •require us to discontinue the sale of all or a portion of our products or services; •require us to indemnify our customers and/or third-party systems integrators; and/or •require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our products or services. 19 Table of Contents In some international markets we have little or no experience, and may not achieve the expected results. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services abroad. If we invest substantial time and resources to grow our international operations and fail to do so successfully, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. We expect to continue expanding our international operations which may require substantial financial resources and a significant amount of attention from our management. International operations involve a variety of risks, particularly; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws and tariffs; •differing abilities to protect our intellectual property rights; •use of international resellers and compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •differing labor regulations; •greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products and services; •greater difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing foreign operations; •possible political and economic instability; and •fluctuating exchange rates. Deployment of certain products and services may require substantial technical implementation and support by us or third-party service providers. Failure to meet these requirements could cause a decline or delay in revenue recognition and an increase in our expenses. Certain products and services we deploy may require a substantial degree of technical and logistical expertise. Moreover, some of our customers require large, enterprise-wide deployments of our products and services. It may be difficult for us to manage these deployments, including the timely allocation of personnel and resources by us and our customers. Failure to successfully manage the process could harm our reputation both generally and with specific customers and may cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or reduce the number of new customers that purchase our products, each of which could adversely affect our revenues and increase our technical support and litigation costs. If actual remediation services exceed our accrued estimates, we could be required to take additional charges, which could be material. If we change prices, alter our payment terms or modify our products or services in order to compete successfully, our margins and operating results may be adversely affected. The intensely competitive market in which we do business may require us to change our prices and/or modify our pricing strategies in ways that may adversely affect our operating results. If our competitors offer deep discounts on competitive products or services, we may need to lower prices or offer other terms more favorable to existing and prospective customers in order to compete successfully, and alternatively, if we choose to raise prices based upon our own evaluation of the value of our products, it may not be well received by customers and may impact our sales volumes. Some of our competitors may bundle their products with their other products and services for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy, or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products or services or cause us to modify our existing market strategies accordingly. If we cannot offset price reductions and other terms more favorable to our customers with a corresponding increase in sales or decreased spending, then the reduced revenues resulting from lower prices would adversely affect our margins and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our products rely on third-party software licenses to operate, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses and/or errors, discontinuations, or updates in or to such software, could result in increased costs, delayed sales, or customer claims against, or termination of, our existing agreements. We license technology from several software providers for our rules engine, analytics, and web viewer applications, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so for these features and other applications and from these or other providers in connection with future products. We also rely on generally available third-party software to run our applications. Any of these software applications may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or new versions may be released that are incompatible with our offerings. Some of the products could be difficult to replace, and developing or integrating new software with our products could require months or years of design and engineering work. The loss or modification of any of these technologies could result in delays in providing our products until equivalent technology is developed or, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. Acquisitions of third-party technologies by other companies, including our competitors, may have a material adverse impact on us if the acquirer seeks to cancel or change the terms of our license. In addition, we depend upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products and services. As a result, undetected errors in these products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions, limit the availability of our products via our on-demand service, and/or injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party products could result in new or higher royalty payments if we are required to enter into license agreements for such products. Our products have unpredictable sales cycles, making it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our results. It is difficult to determine with any certainty how long the sales cycles for our solutions will be, thereby making it difficult to predict the quarter in which a particular sale will close and to plan expenditures accordingly. Moreover, to the extent that sales are completed in the final two weeks of a quarter, the impact of recurring revenue transactions is typically not reflected in our financial statements until subsequent quarters. In addition, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and ultimate sale of our products and services is relatively long due to several factors, which may include: •the complex nature of some of our products; •the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services; •budget cycles of our potential customers that affect the timing of purchases; •customer requirements for competitive evaluation and internal approval before purchasing our products and services; •potential delays of purchases due to announcements or planned introductions of new products and services by us or our competitors; and •the lengthy approval processes of our potential customers, many of which are large organizations. The failure to complete sales of our on-demand solution in a particular quarter will impact revenues in subsequent quarters as revenue from our on-demand services are recognized ratably over the term of the applicable agreement. 21 Table of Contents Our latest product features and functionality may require existing on-premise customers to migrate to our on-demand solution. Moreover, we may choose or be compelled to discontinue maintenance support for older versions of our software products, forcing our on-premise customers to upgrade their software in order to continue receiving maintenance support. If existing on-premise customers fail to migrate or delay migration to our on-demand solution, our revenues may be harmed. We continue to promote our on-demand product offerings to existing customers who currently have on-premise perpetual and term licenses. Customers with on-premise licenses may need to migrate to our on-demand solutions to take full advantage of the features and functionality in those products and services. We also expect to periodically terminate maintenance support on older versions of our on-premise products for various reasons including, without limitation, termination of support by third-party software vendors whose products complement ours or upon which we are dependent. Regardless of the reason, a migration is likely to involve additional cost, which our customers may delay or decline to incur. If a sufficient number of customers do not migrate to our on-demand product offerings, our continued maintenance support opportunities and our ability to sell additional products to these customers, and as a result, our revenues and operating income, may be harmed. Disruptions, business failures and consolidations in the financial and insurance industries or the ongoing after-effects of the global economic crisis may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from sales of our products and services to customers in the insurance, high technology, and manufacturing industries. The continued disruptions in these industries and in the financial sector in 2012 and 2011 resulted in customers deferring or cancelling future planned expenditures for our products and services. Consolidations and business failures in these industries could reduce demand for our products and services even more. The disruptions in these industries and the continued after-effects of the global financial crisis may adversely impact our business in a number of important respects. These include (i) reduced bookings and revenues, as a result of longer sales cycles, reduced, deferred or cancelled customer purchases, and lower average selling prices; (ii) increased operating losses and reduced cash flows from operations; (iii) greater than anticipated uncollectible accounts receivable and increased allowances for doubtful accounts receivable; and (iv) impairment in the value of our financial and non-financial assets resulting in non-cash impairment charges. Any of these developments, or the combination thereof, may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition in future periods. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In such cases, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. Our revenues might be harmed by resistance to the adoption of our products and services by information technology departments. Some potential customers have already made substantial investments in third-party or internally developed solutions designed to model, administer, analyze and report on pay-for-performance programs. These companies may be reluctant to abandon such investments in favor of our products and services. In addition, information technology departments of potential customers may resist purchasing our solutions for a variety of other reasons, particularly the potential displacement of their historical role in creating and running software and concerns that packaged and hosted product offerings are not sufficiently customizable and/or pose data security concerns for their enterprises. 22 Table of Contents We may lose sales opportunities and our business may be harmed if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to implement and sell our products and services. We have relationships with third-party consulting firms, systems integrators and software vendors. These third parties may provide customer referrals, cooperate with us in the design, sales and/or marketing of our products and services, provide valuable insights into market demands, and provide our customers with systems implementation services or overall program management. However, in some cases we may not have formal agreements governing our ongoing relationship with certain of these third-party providers and the agreements we do have generally do not include specific obligations with respect to generating sales opportunities or cooperating on future business. We also from time to time consider strategic relationships that are new or unusual for us and which can pose additional risks. For example, while reseller arrangements offer the advantage of leveraging larger sales organizations than our own to sell our products, they also require considerable time and effort on our part to train and support the reseller's personnel, and require the reseller to properly motivate and incentivize its sales force. Also, if the reseller agreement is an exclusive arrangement, the exclusivity may prevent us from pursuing the applicable markets ourselves, and if the reseller is not successful in the particular location, may adversely affect our results of operations. Should any of these third parties go out of business, perform unsatisfactory services or choose not to work with us, we may be forced to develop new capabilities internally, which may cause significant delays and expense, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. These third-party providers may offer products of other companies, including products and services that compete with ours. If we do not successfully or efficiently establish, maintain, and expand our industry relationships with influential market participants, we could lose sales and service opportunities, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Inclusion of open source software in our products may expose us to liability or require release of our source code. We use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more in the future. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software that has been incorporated into our products. In addition, some open source software is provided under licenses that require that proprietary software, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license and thus freely available. While we take steps to minimize the risk that our products, when incorporating open source software, would become subject to open source licenses, few courts have interpreted open source licenses. As a result, the enforcement of these licenses is unclear. If our products were to become subject to open source licenses, our ability to commercialize our products and services and consequently, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS We currently have a significant level of indebtedness. We issued $80.5 million in aggregate principal amount convertible senior notes (the "Convertible Notes") pursuant to an indenture between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee in the second quarter of 2011. We repurchased $21.3 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes during 2011. We may be required to repurchase the remaining outstanding balance of $59.2 million at maturity in 2016 or upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes, as defined in the indenture. This indebtedness could, among other things: •make it difficult to obtain favorable terms for any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; 23 Table of Contents •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes or to pay other obligations; and •limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt. We may also incur expenditures that are outside of our control, such as costs associated with legal proceedings brought by other parties, or costs resulting from compliance with changes in laws. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Further, if we are required to repurchase the outstanding Convertible Notes, or if a default under the indenture accelerates the maturity or payment obligations of the Convertible Notes, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the Convertible Notes, repay our indebtedness or pay our other obligations, which could materially adversely impact our continuing operations and cause a decline in the price of our stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Our stock price is likely to remain volatile. The trading price of our common stock has in the past and may in the future, be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described in this section. We receive limited attention by securities analysts and we frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand in the public trading market for our common stock due to limited trading volumes. Investors should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and should purchase our common stock only if they can withstand significant losses. Other factors that affect the volatility of our stock include: •our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; •significant sales or distributions by existing investors coupled with a lack of trading volume for our stock; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, results of operations, projections, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •changes in our management team; •failure to meet published operating estimates or expectations of securities analysts and investors; •publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; and •developments with respect to intellectual property rights. Additionally, some companies with volatile market prices for their securities have been to the subject of securities class action lawsuits. Any such suit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the price of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock, including securities convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of our common stock such as shares underlying our existing Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate, subject to adjustment upon certain events, of 129.6596 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $7.71 per share of our common stock). The issuance of additional shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes or other issuances of shares of our common stock or convertible securities, including outstanding options and warrants, will dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public trading market (or in private transactions) including sales by our executive officers, directors or institutional investors, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to drop. Provisions in our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan, Delaware law and the indenture may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms, which means that replacing a majority of our directors would require at least two annual meetings. A potential acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and would not be able to accumulate votes at a meeting, which would require such potential acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. In addition, we are a party to a stockholder rights agreement, which effectively prohibits a person from acquiring more than 15% (subject to certain exceptions) of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Furthermore, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. All of these factors make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with a potential acquirer that it does not believe is in our strategic interests. If a potential acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, under certain circumstances, this could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain provisions of the Convertible Notes described above could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture, subject to certain conditions, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of the Convertible Notes with a principal amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. We may also be required, under certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for the Convertible Notes if a holder elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change as defined in the indenture. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 