Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks, including those described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed and the market price of our common shares could decline. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. Our electric and gas operations are highly regulated, and any adverse regulatory changes could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and its financial position. NSTAR’s electric and gas operations, including the rates charged, are regulated by the FERC and the DPU. In addition, NSTAR’s accounting policies are prescribed by GAAP, the FERC, and the DPU. Adverse regulatory changes could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and its financial condition. Potential municipalization or technological developments may adversely affect our regulated electricity and natural gas businesses. Under Massachusetts law, no other entity may provide electric or gas delivery service to retail customers within NSTAR’s service territory without the written consent of NSTAR Electric and/or NSTAR Gas. Although not a trend, NSTAR’s operating utility companies could be exposed to municipalization risk, whereby a municipality could acquire the electric or natural gas delivery assets located in that city or town and take over the customer delivery service, thereby reducing NSTAR’s revenues. Any such action would require numerous legal and regulatory consents and approvals. Municipalization would require that NSTAR be compensated for its assets assumed. In addition, there is also the risk that technological developments could lead to distributed generation among NSTAR’s customer base reducing such customers’ use of NSTAR’s utility system. Changes in environmental laws and regulations affecting our business could increase our costs or curtail our activities. NSTAR and its subsidiaries are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations that are currently in effect, including those related to the handling, disposal, and treatment of hazardous materials. Changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs, all of which could have an adverse impact on NSTAR’s results of operations. The Company may be required to conduct environmental remediation activities for power generating sites and other potentially unidentified sites. NSTAR is subject to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving environmental remediation activities for power generating sites previously owned and other potentially unidentified sites. NSTAR divested all of its regulated generating assets under terms that generally require the buyer to assume all responsibility for past and present environmental harm. Based on NSTAR’s current assessment of its environmental 13 Table of Contents responsibilities, existing legal requirements and regulatory policies, NSTAR does not believe that its known environmental remediation responsibilities will have a material adverse effect on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, discovery of currently unknown conditions at existing sites, identification of additional waste sites or changes in environmental regulation, could have a material adverse impact on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. NSTAR is subject to operational risk that could cause us to incur substantial costs and liabilities. Our business, which involves the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity that is used as an energy source by our customers, is subject to various operational risks, including incidents that expose the Company to potential claims for property damages or personal injuries beyond the scope of NSTAR’s insurance coverage, and equipment failures that could result in performance below assumed levels. For example, operational performance below established target benchmark levels could cause NSTAR to incur penalties imposed by the DPU, up to a maximum of two and one-half percent of transmission and distribution revenues, under applicable Service Quality Indicators. Increases in interest rates due to financial market conditions or changes in our credit ratings, could have an adverse impact on our access to capital markets at favorable rates, or at all, and could otherwise increase our costs of doing business. NSTAR frequently accesses the capital markets to finance its working capital requirements, capital expenditures and to meet its long-term debt maturity obligations. Increased interest rates, or adverse changes in our credit ratings or further deterioration in the credit markets, would increase our cost of borrowing and other costs that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows and ultimately have an adverse impact on the market price of our common shares. In addition, an adverse change in our credit ratings could increase borrowing costs, trigger requirements that we obtain additional security for performance, such as a letter of credit, related to our energy procurement agreements. Refer to the accompanying Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for a further discussion. Our electric and gas businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and have seasonal variations. In addition, severe storm-related disasters could adversely affect the Company. Sales of electricity and natural gas to residential and commercial customers are influenced by temperature fluctuations. Significant fluctuations in heating or cooling degree days could have a material impact on energy sales for any given period. In addition, extremely severe storms, such as hurricanes and ice storms, could cause damage to our facilities that may require additional costs to repair and have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. To the extent possible, NSTAR’s rate regulated subsidiaries would seek recovery of these costs through the regulatory process. An economic downturn, increased costs of energy supply, and customers’ conservation efforts could adversely affect energy consumption and could adversely affect our results of operations. Energy consumption is significantly impacted by the general level of economic activity and cost of energy supply. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically lead to reductions in energy consumption and increased conservation measures. These conditions could adversely impact the level of energy sales and result in less demand for energy delivery. A recession or a prolonged lag of a subsequent recovery could have an adverse effect on NSTAR’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The ability of NSTAR to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to NSTAR. As a holding company, NSTAR does not have any operating activity and therefore is substantially dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and from external borrowings at variable rates of interest to provide the cash 14 Table of Contents necessary for repayment of debt obligations, to pay administrative costs, to meet contractual obligations that may not be met by our subsidiaries and to pay common share dividends to NSTAR’s shareholders. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. As the Holding company’s sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external borrowings, the ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders will be dependent upon cash flows of NSTAR’s subsidiaries. NSTAR’s subsidiaries do have certain limitations that could impact the payment of dividends to the Holding company. Refer to the “Sources of Additional Capital and Financial Covenant Requirements” section of the accompanying Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information. Our electric and gas operations may be impacted if generation supply or its transportation or transmission availability is limited or unreliable. Our electric and natural gas delivery businesses are reliant on transportation and transmission facilities that we do not own or control. Our ability to provide energy delivery services depends on the operations and facilities of third parties, including the independent system operator, electric generators that supply our customers’ energy requirements and natural gas pipeline operators from which we receive delivery of our natural gas supply. Should our ability to receive electric or natural gas supply be disrupted due either to operational issues or to inadequacy of transmission capacity, it could impact our ability to serve our customers. It could also force us to secure alternative supply at significantly higher costs. Financial market performance and other changes may decrease the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans’ assets and could require additional funding beyond historic levels. A sustained decline in the global financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plans’ assets. This situation may increase our benefit plans’ funding requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 