ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks factors may adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions to our stockholders, access to capital, or the market price of our common stock, as further described in each risk factor below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to the information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, one should carefully review and consider the information contained in our other reports and periodic filings that we make with the SEC. Those risk factors could materially affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions to our stockholders, access to capital, or the market price of our common stock. The risks that we describe in our public filings are not the only risks that we face. The global financial crisis, high structural unemployment, and other events or circumstances beyond the control of the Company may adversely affect its industry, business, results of operations, contractual commitments, and access to capital. What began initially in 2007 and 2008 as a “subprime” mortgage crisis turned into an extraordinary U.S. and worldwide structural economic and financial crisis coupled with the rapid decline of the consumer economy. From 2008 through 2010, significant concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and a declining real estate market in the U.S. contributed to increased volatility, diminished expectations for the economy and the markets, and high levels of structural unemployment by historical standards. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices and fluctuating business and consumer confidence, precipitated a steep economic decline. In 2011 and 2012, the economy showed signs of improvement, but recovery has been slow and volatile. Further, severe financial and structural strains on the banking and financial systems have led to significant lack of trust and confidence in the global credit and financial system. Consumers and money managers have liquidated and may liquidate equity investments, and consumers and banks have held and may hold cash and other lower-risk investments, resulting in significant and, in some cases, catastrophic declines in the equity capitalization of companies and failures of financial institutions. Although U.S. bank earnings and liquidity are on the rebound, the potential of significant future bank credit losses creates uncertainty for the lending outlook. Additionally, job growth remains sluggish, and sustained high unemployment can further hinder economic growth. Negative impact on economic growth resulting from the combination of federal income tax increases, debt policy, and government spending restrictions may adversely affect our results of operations. Global macroeconomic conditions affect our client tenants’ businesses. Developments such as the recent recessions and instability in the banking and governmental sectors of the U.S. and Europe, and/or the negative impact on economic growth resulting from the combination of government tax increases, debt policy, and spending restrictions may have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. Volatile, negative, or uncertain economic conditions could undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets and cause our client tenants to reduce or defer their spending, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate or contract, in each case, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographic regions in which we operate and the industries we serve may in the future affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our client tenants in North America. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty affects our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand beyond the short term and effectively build our revenue and spending plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty are particularly challenging because it may take some time for the effects and resulting changes in demand patterns to manifest themselves in our business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. These risks may impact our overall liquidity, borrowing costs, or the market price of our common stock. Failure of the U.S. federal government to enact a fiscal budget, raise or further suspend the debt ceiling, and changes in the amount of federal debt may negatively impact the economic environment and adversely impact our results of operations. The Budget Control Act of 2011 provides for a reduction of U.S. federal government discretionary spending in fiscal year 2013 by roughly $110 billion through a series of automatic across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration. Sequestration is expected to go into effect unless the U.S. Congress passes sweeping legislation to reduce budget deficits by $1.2 trillion over the next decade. Although the deadline for such Congressional action was originally January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which was enacted on January 2, 2013, delayed the effective date of sequestration to March 1, 2013 to provide an additional opportunity for the U.S. Congress and the President to agree on alternative deficit reduction options. The U.S. federal government has established a limit on the level of federal debt that the U.S. federal government can have outstanding, often referred to as the debt ceiling. U.S. federal debt is expected to reach the current debt ceiling of $16.4 trillion in the coming months. The U.S. Congress has authority to raise the debt ceiling, and has done so in the past. For example, in 2011, the U.S. Congress raised the debt ceiling by enacting the Budget Control Act of 2011, resulting in sequestration and the lowering of the credit rating of the U.S. federal government. Absent an increase in, or suspensions to, the debt ceiling in 2013, the U.S. federal government may partially shut down and/or default on its existing loans as a result of reaching the debt ceiling. An inability of the U.S. federal government to manage its fiscal matters, avoid sequestration, or manage its debt may result in the loss of economic confidence domestically and globally, reduce investment spending, increase borrowing costs, impact availability and cost of capital, and significantly reduce economic activity. Furthermore, a failure by the U.S. federal government to enact appropriate fiscal legislation may significantly impact the national and global economic and financial environment and affect our business and the businesses of our client tenants. If economic conditions severely deteriorate as a result of government fiscal gridlock, our ability to lease space to our client tenants may be significantly impacted. 9 Table of Contents The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the economic crisis in Europe could negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition, and earnings. Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the possibility of additional downgrades of sovereign credit ratings and economic slowdowns. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from “AAA” to “AA+” in August 2011. The impact of this or any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. In addition, certain European nations continue to experience varying degrees of financial stress, and yields on government-issued bonds in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain have risen recently and remain volatile. Despite assistance packages to Greece, Ireland, and Portugal, the creation of the European Financial Stability Facility and the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism, and a recently announced plan to expand financial assistance to Greece, uncertainty over the outcome of the European Union governments’ financial support programs and worries about sovereign finances persist. Market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to these European Union peripheral nations has resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial institutions. There can be no assurance that government or other measures to aid economic recovery will be effective. These developments, and the U.S. government’s credit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, the lowered credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may exert downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in laws, regulations, and financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. As a response, in large part, to perceived abuses and deficiencies in current regulations believed to have caused or exacerbated the recent global financial crisis, legislative, regulatory, and accounting standard-setting bodies around the world are engaged in an intensive, wide-ranging examination and rewriting of the laws, regulations, and accounting standards that have constituted the basic playing field of global and domestic business for several decades. In many jurisdictions, including the U.S., the legislative and regulatory response has included the extensive reorganization of existing regulatory and rule-making agencies and organizations, and the establishment of new agencies with broad powers. This reorganization has disturbed longstanding regulatory and industry relationships and established procedures. The rule-making and administrative efforts have focused principally on the areas perceived as having contributed to the financial crisis, including banking, investment banking, securities regulation, and real estate finance, with spillover impacts on many other areas. These initiatives have created a degree of uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry and many other businesses that is unprecedented in the U.S. at least since the wave of lawmaking, regulatory reform, and governmental reorganization that followed the Great Depression. The global financial crisis and the aggressive government and accounting profession reaction thereto have occurred against a backdrop of increasing globalization and internationalization of financial and securities regulation that began prior to the recent financial crisis. As a result of this ongoing trend, financial and investment activities previously regulated almost exclusively at a local or national level are increasingly being regulated, or at least coordinated, on an international basis, with national rule-making and standard-setting groups relinquishing varying degrees of local and national control to achieve more uniform regulation and reduce the ability of market participants to engage in regulatory arbitrage between jurisdictions. This globalization trend has continued, arguably with an increased sense of urgency and importance, since the financial crisis. This high degree of regulatory uncertainty, coupled with considerable additional uncertainty regarding the underlying condition and prospects of global, domestic, and local economies, has created an unclear business environment that makes business planning and projections even more uncertain than is ordinarily the case for businesses in the financial and real estate sectors. 10 Table of Contents In the commercial real estate sector in which we operate, the uncertainties posed by various initiatives of accounting standard-setting authorities to fundamentally rewrite major bodies of accounting literature constitute a significant source of uncertainty as to the basic rules of business engagement. Changes in accounting standards and requirements, including the potential requirement that U.S. public companies prepare financial statements in accordance with international standards, proposed lease and investment property accounting standards, and the adoption of accounting standards likely to require the increased use of “fair value” measures may have a significant effect on our financial results and on the results of our client tenants, which would have a secondary impact on us. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing pronouncements are likely to continue to occur at an accelerated pace as a result of recent Congressional and regulatory actions and continuing efforts by the accounting profession itself to reform and modernize its principles and procedures. Although we have not been as directly affected by the wave of new legislation and regulation as banks and investment banks, we may also be adversely affected by new or amended laws or regulations, by changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws and regulations, and by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. In the U.S., the financial crisis and continuing economic slowdown prompted a variety of legislative, regulatory, and accounting profession responses. The federal legislative response culminated in the enactment on July 21, 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act contains far-reaching provisions that substantially revise, or provide for the revision of, longstanding, fundamental rules governing the banking and investment banking industries, and provide for the broad restructuring of the regulatory authorities in these areas. The Dodd-Frank Act is expected to result in profound changes in the ground rules for financial business activities in the U.S. To a large degree, the impacts of the legislative, regulatory, and accounting reforms to date are still not clear. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rule-making by regulatory authorities. While we do not currently expect the Dodd-Frank Act to have a significant direct effect on us, the Dodd-Frank Act’s impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. The Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial or real estate industries or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may limit our revenues, impose fees or taxes on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework within which we operate in ways that are not currently identifiable. The Dodd-Frank Act is also expected to result in substantial changes and dislocations in the banking industry and the financial services sector in ways that could have significant effects on, for example, the availability and pricing of unsecured credit, commercial mortgage credit, and derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, which are important aspects of our business. Accordingly, new laws, regulations, and accounting standards, as well as changes to, or new interpretations of, currently accepted accounting practices in the real estate industry may adversely affect our results of operations. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, and we cannot predict the effect of such regulation on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that directly affect other participants in the real estate and capital markets, such as banks, investment funds, and interest rate swap providers, could have indirect, but material, impacts on our business that cannot now be predicted. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Changes in the system for establishing U.S. accounting standards may result in adverse fluctuations in our asset and liability values and earnings, and may materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations. Accounting for public companies in the U.S. has historically been conducted in accordance with GAAP as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), an independent body whose standards are recognized by the SEC as authoritative for publicly held companies. The International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) is a London-based independent board established in 2001 and charged with the development of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). IFRS generally reflects accounting practices that prevail in Europe and in developed nations around the world. 11 Table of Contents IFRS differs in material respects from GAAP. Among other things, IFRS has historically relied more on “fair value” models of accounting for assets and liabilities than GAAP. “Fair value” models are based on periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities, often resulting in fluctuations in such values as compared to GAAP, which relies more frequently on historical cost as the basis for asset and liability valuation. The SEC released a final report on its IFRS workplan, which indicates the SEC still needs to analyze and consider whether IFRS should be incorporated into the U.S. financial reporting system. It is unclear at this time how and when the SEC will propose that GAAP and IFRS be harmonized if the decision to incorporate is adopted. In addition, incorporating a new method of accounting and adopting IFRS will be a complex undertaking. We may need to develop new systems and controls based on the principles of IFRS. Since these are new endeavors, and the precise requirements of the pronouncements ultimately adopted are not now known, the magnitude of costs associated with this conversion is uncertain. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of IFRS on our financial position and results of operations. Such evaluation cannot be completed, however, without more clarity regarding the specific proposed standards that will be adopted. Until there is more certainty with respect to the standards to be adopted, prospective investors should consider that our conversion to IFRS could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations. Changes in financial accounting standards related to accounting for leases and investments in real estate may adversely impact us. The regulatory boards and government agencies which determine financial accounting standards and disclosures in the U.S., including the FASB and the IASB (collectively, the “Boards”) and the SEC, continually change and update the financial accounting standards we must follow. Currently, the boards are considering, among other items, proposed changes to the following: · The accounting standards for leases for both lessees and lessors; and · The accounting standards for investments in real estate. These proposals may or may not ultimately be implemented by the Boards. If some or all of the current proposals were to become final standards, our balance sheet, results of operations, or market price of common stock could be significantly impacted. Such potential impacts include, without limitation: · Significant changes to our balance sheet relating to the recognition of operating leases as assets or liabilities based on existing lease terms and whether we are the lessor or lessee; · Significant fluctuations in our reported results of operations, including fluctuations in our expenses related to amortization of new lease-related assets and/or liabilities and assumed interest costs with leases; and · The recognition of gains and losses from mark-to-market valuation changes in investments in real estate. Changes in lease accounting standards could also potentially impact the structure and terms of future leases since our client tenants may seek to limit lease terms to avoid recognizing lease obligations on their financial statements. Changes in financial accounting standards may adversely impact our financial debt covenants. Certain debt agreements, including those related to unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans, contain financial covenants which are calculated based on current GAAP. Our 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable (“4.60% Unsecured Senior Notes Payable”) contain financial covenants which are calculated based on GAAP at the date the bonds were issued in 2012. Our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loan agreements provide that our financial debt covenants be renegotiated in good faith to preserve the original intent of the existing financial covenant when such covenant is affected by an accounting standard change. For those debt agreements that require the renegotiation of financial covenants upon changes in accounting standards, there is no assurance that we will be successful in such negotiations or that the renegotiated covenants will not be more restrictive to us. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption for several years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Disruptions, uncertainty, or volatility in the capital markets may also limit our access to capital from financial institutions on favorable terms, or altogether, and our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities could be adversely affected by causes beyond our control through ongoing extraordinary disruptions in the global economy and financial systems or other events. We may not be able to obtain additional capital to further our business objectives. Our ability to acquire, develop, or redevelop properties depends upon our ability to obtain capital. The real estate industry has recently experienced volatile debt and equity capital markets with periods of extreme illiquidity. A prolonged period in which we cannot effectively access the public equity or debt markets may result in heavier reliance on alternative financing sources to undertake new investments. An inability to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing, and completing desirable investments, and could otherwise adversely affect our business. Also, the issuance of additional shares of capital stock or interests in subsidiaries to fund future operations could dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders. Even as liquidity returns to the market, debt and equity capital may be more expensive than in prior years. 12 Table of Contents Our capital plan objectives to reduce our balance sheet leverage in 2013 may negatively impact us. A key objective of our capital plan in 2013 is to reduce our ratio of net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Each of the key aspects of our capital strategy contains risks that may negatively impact our operating results, operating cash flow, and market price of our common stock. The key aspects of this plan include: · Funding our estimated construction spend; · The sale of operating and non-income producing assets and recycling of the resulting net proceeds into our development and redevelopment projects or reduce the amount of outstanding debt; · The increase in our cash flows from operating activities after the payment of dividends from the scheduled completion of our development and redevelopment projects; and · Minimizing the issuance of common stock. Our capital plan for the year ended December 31, 2013, includes significant construction spending related to our active development, active redevelopment, pre-construction, future construction, and other construction projects aggregating a range from $545 million to $595 million. Our estimated construction spend is subject to various assumptions, including among others, estimate of the cost to complete projects, a forecast of certain additional projects, estimate of investment into these projects by our client tenants, and final lease negotiations. Our projected sources of capital for 2013 include sales of operating and non-income-producing assets ranging from $325 million to $425 million. Real estate sales are highly contingent on our ability to locate buyers, execute transactions at reasonably attractive sales terms, and other market conditions beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve our asset recycling targets. In addition, sales of operating assets will reduce our operating earnings and cash flows in the near term until the sales proceeds are re-invested into new projects and those projects are fully leased and generate cash flows in excess of the cash flows from assets sold. We may also sell operating assets in excess of our targeted amounts in 2013 which may increase the temporary decline in operating earnings and cash flows until those proceeds are fully reinvested. Our cash flows from operating activities after the payment of dividends are expected to increase largely from our projected 2013 deliveries of our current development and redevelopment projects. There is no assurance that our current projects will be delivered as scheduled or that their contributions to earnings and cash flows will be consistent with our projections. If our construction spending exceeds our current forecast or if we do not achieve our capital recycling targets or operating cash flow forecasts for 2013 from our scheduled development and redevelopments deliveries, we may issue common stock in excess of our current year projections of $125 million to $175 million or we may have to access other forms of equity capital. Issuance of common stock or other forms of equity capital may negatively impact the price of our common stock and our operating cash flow after the payment of dividends. We believe that our capital plan objectives for 2013, including asset sales, will generate long-term value for our debt and equity holders, however, the implementation of our balance sheet strategy may negatively impact our results of operations, cash flow from operations, and market price of our common stock in the short or medium term. Possible future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of shares of our common stock on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of capital stock (including common stock issued upon the conversion of convertible debt securities, or the conversion or redemption of preferred stock), or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We have reserved a number of shares of common stock for issuance to our directors, officers, and employees pursuant to our Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (sometimes referred to herein as our equity incentive plan). As of December 31, 2012, a total of 1,706,142 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance under our Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan. We have filed a registration statement with respect to the issuance of shares of our common stock pursuant to grants under our equity incentive plan. In addition, any shares issued under our equity incentive plan will be available for sale in the public market from time to time without restriction by persons who are not our “affiliates” (as defined in Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act). Affiliates will be able to sell shares of our common stock subject to restrictions under Rule 144. The price per share of our stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price per share of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including, but not limited to: · The availability and cost of debt and/or equity capital; · The condition of our balance sheet; · Actual or anticipated capital requirements; · The condition of the financial and banking industries; · Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; · The amount and timing of debt maturities and other contractual obligations; · Changes in our funds from operations (“FFO”), adjusted funds from operations (“AFFO”), or earnings estimates; · The publication of research reports about us, the real estate industry, or the life science industry; · The general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other debt or equity securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies); · General stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends; · Changes in our analyst ratings; · Changes in our corporate credit rating or credit ratings of our debt or other securities; · Changes in market valuations of similar companies; · Adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; · Additions or departures of key management personnel; · Actions by institutional stockholders; · Speculation in the press or investment community; · Terrorist activity adversely affecting the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending; · Government regulatory action and changes in tax laws; · The realization of any of the other risk factors included in this annual report on Form 10-K; and · General market and economic conditions. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business, or our prospects. 13 Table of Contents Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. Our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · The status of the economy; · The status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; · Changes in financing terms available to us; · Negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of client tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent; · Our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; · Our ability to reinvest sale proceeds in a timely manner at rates similar to those of assets sold; · Regulatory approval and market acceptance of the products and technologies of life science client tenants; · Liability or contract claims by or against client tenants; · Unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; · Environmental laws affecting our properties; · Changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; and · Other legal and operational matters, including REIT qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention. Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to FFO per share, AFFO per share, earnings estimates, operating cash flows, and revenues, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our common stock or other outstanding securities. Our debt service obligations may have adverse consequences on our business operations. We use debt to finance our operations, including the acquisition, development, and redevelopment of properties. Our use of debt may have adverse consequences, including the following: · Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; · We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt; · We may default on our debt obligations, and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure those loans; · A foreclosure on one of our properties could create taxable income without any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the tax; · A default under a mortgage loan that has cross-default provisions may cause us to automatically default on another loan; · We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt; · The terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt; · We may be subject to a significant increase in the variable interest rates on our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans and certain other borrowings, which could adversely impact our operations; and · The terms of our debt obligations may require a reduction in our distributions to stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of approximately $716.1 million (net of $0.4 million discount), secured by 38 properties, and outstanding debt under our unsecured senior notes payable, unsecured senior line of credit, and unsecured senior bank term loans of approximately $2.5 billion. During 2012, our unconsolidated joint venture obtained construction financing with aggregate commitments of $213 million. This joint venture owns a ground-up development project aggregating 414,000 rentable square feet in the Longwood Medical Area of the Greater Boston market. Our ownership interest in the joint venture is 27.5%. The total outstanding balance of the secured note payable related to the construction financing for the joint venture was $61.0 million as of December 31, 2012. Our pro-rata share of the secured note payable related to the construction financing was $16.8 million as of December 31, 2012. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to refinance our debt and/or our debt may not be assumable. Due to the high volume of real estate debt financing in recent years, the real estate industry may require more funds to refinance debt maturities than the potential funds available from lenders. This potential shortage of available funds from lenders and stricter credit underwriting guidelines may limit our ability to refinance our debt as it matures, our cash flows, or our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, or may adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations, and the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $3.2 billion in outstanding debt. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing ability. In July 2011, we received investment-grade ratings from two major rating agencies. Our credit ratings may affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. In the event that our current credit ratings are downgraded or removed, we would most likely incur higher borrowing costs and experience greater difficulty in obtaining additional financing, which would in turn have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We may not be able to borrow additional amounts through the issuance of unsecured bonds. There is no assurance that we will be able to access the investment-grade unsecured bond market on favorable terms while we maintain our investment-grade ratings. Our ability to borrow additional amounts through the issuance of unsecured bonds may be negatively impacted by periods of illiquidity in the bond market. Our inability to borrow additional amounts through the issuance of unsecured bonds will require us to borrow under other arrangements and could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing, and completing desirable investments, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our stockholders, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to borrow additional amounts under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans. Aggregate unsecured borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans are limited to an amount based primarily on the net operating income derived from a pool of unencumbered properties and the cost basis of certain of our land and construction projects and compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. Borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans are funded by a group of 37 banks. Our ability to borrow additional amounts under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans may be negatively impacted by a decrease in cash flows from our properties, a default or cross default under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans, non-compliance with one or more loan covenants, and non-performance or failure of one or more lenders under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans. In addition, we may not be able to refinance or repay outstanding borrowings on our unsecured senior line of credit or unsecured senior bank term loans. Our inability to borrow additional amounts could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing, and completing desirable investments, which could adversely affect our business; and our inability to refinance or repay amounts under our unsecured senior line of credit or unsecured senior bank term loans may adversely affect our cash flows, ability to make distributions to our stockholders, financial condition, and results of operations. Our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans restrict our ability to engage in some business activities. Our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: · Restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness; · Restrict our ability to make certain investments; · Restrict our ability to merge with another company; · Restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders; · Require us to maintain financial coverage ratios; and · Require us to maintain a pool of unencumbered assets approved by the lenders. 15 Table of Contents These restrictions could cause us to default on our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans or could negatively affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We could become highly leveraged, and our debt service obligations could increase. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. Therefore, we could become highly leveraged. This would result in an increase in our debt service obligations that could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Higher leverage could also increase the risk of default on our debt obligations. If interest rates rise, our debt service costs will increase and the value of our properties may decrease. Our unsecured senior line of credit, unsecured senior bank term loans, and certain other borrowings bear interest at variable rates, and we may incur additional debt in the future. Increases in market interest rates would increase our interest expense under these debt instruments and would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. Additionally, increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and decrease the market price of our common stock. Accordingly, these increases could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 30% of our debt was unhedged variable rate debt. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. The interest rate hedge agreements we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. These risk factors may lead to failure to hedge effectively against changes in interest rates and therefore may adversely affect our results of operations. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivative transactions, which include certain instruments used in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act contemplates that most swaps will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility. There are some exceptions to these requirements for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. While we may ultimately be eligible for such exceptions, the scope of these exceptions is currently uncertain, pending further definition through rule-making proceedings. Among the other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may affect derivative transactions are those relating to establishment of capital and margin requirements for certain derivative participants; establishment of business conduct standards, recordkeeping requirements, and reporting requirements; and imposition of position limits. Although the Dodd-Frank Act includes significant new provisions regarding the regulation of derivatives, the impact of those requirements will not be known definitively until regulations have been adopted by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The new legislation and any new regulations could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts and affect the number and/or creditworthiness of hedge counterparties available to us. The conversion rights of our convertible preferred stock may be detrimental to holders of common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $250 million outstanding of our 7.00% series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (“Series D Convertible Preferred Stock”). Shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted into shares of our common stock subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2012, the conversion rate for the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock was 0.2480 shares of our common stock per $25.00 liquidation preference, which was equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $100.81 per share of common stock. The conversion rate for the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock is subject to adjustments for certain events, including, but not limited to, certain dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.78 per share per quarter and dividends on our common stock payable in shares of our common stock. In addition, on or after April 20, 2013, we may, at our option, be able to cause some or all of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock to be automatically converted if the closing sale price per share of our common stock equals or exceeds 150% of the then-applicable conversion price of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately prior to our issuance of a press release announcing the exercise of our conversion option. Holders of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, at their option, may, at any time and from time to time, convert some or all of their outstanding shares. 16 Table of Contents The conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into our common stock would dilute stockholder ownership in our company, and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any adjustments that increase the conversion rate of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock would increase their dilutive effect. Further, the conversion rights by the holders of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock might be triggered in situations in which we need to conserve our cash reserves, in which event, our election, under certain conditions, to repurchase such Series D Convertible Preferred Stock in lieu of converting it into common stock might adversely affect us and our stockholders. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through partnerships, limited liability companies, and joint ventures. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of funds that we may invest in non-wholly owned partnerships, limited liability companies, or joint ventures. Partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: · Upon bankruptcy of non-wholly owned partnerships, limited liability companies, or joint venture entities, we may become liable for the liabilities of the partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture; · We may share certain approval rights over major decisions with third parties; · We may be required to contribute additional capital if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions; · Our partners, co-members, or joint ventures might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and that could affect our ability to operate the property or our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT; · Our ability to sell the interest on advantageous terms when we so desire may be limited or restricted under the terms of our agreements with our partners; and · We may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationships or may need to purchase such interests or assets at an above market price to continue ownership. We generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships, limited liability companies, and joint ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives. However, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders, or the market price of our common stock. We may not be able to sell our properties quickly to raise money. Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid compared to other investments. Accordingly, we may not be able to sell our properties when we desire or at prices acceptable to us in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”) limits our ability to sell properties held for less than two years. These limitations on our ability to sell our properties may adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to repay debt, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If our revenues are less than our expenses, we may have to borrow additional funds, and we may not be able to make distributions to our stockholders. If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including our debt service obligations and capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs and cash flow needs. This could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Factors that could adversely affect the revenues we generate from, and the values of, our properties include: · National, local, and worldwide economic conditions; · Competition from other life science properties; · Changes in the life science industry; · Real estate conditions in our target markets; · Our ability to collect rent payments; · The availability of financing; · Changes to the financial and banking industries; · Changes in interest rate levels; · Vacancies at our properties and our ability to re-lease space; 17 Table of Contents · Changes in tax or other regulatory laws; · The costs of compliance with government regulation; · The lack of liquidity of real estate investments; and · Increases in operating costs. In addition, if a lease at a property is not a triple net lease, we will have greater expenses associated with that property and greater exposure to increases in such expenses. Significant expenditures, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and insurance, and maintenance costs are generally fixed and do not decrease when revenues at the related property decrease. Our distributions to stockholders may decline at any time. We may not continue our current level of distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors will determine future distributions based on a number of factors, including: · Our amount of cash available for distribution; · Our financial condition and capital requirements; · Any decision to reinvest funds rather than to distribute such funds; · Our capital expenditures; · The annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code; · Restrictions under Maryland law; and · Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. A reduction in distributions to stockholders may negatively impact our stock price. Distributions on our common stock may be made in the form of cash, stock, or a combination of both. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders. Typically, we generate cash for distributions through our operations, the disposition of assets, or the incurrence of additional debt. Our Board of Directors may determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. For example, we may determine to declare dividends payable in cash or stock at the election of each stockholder, subject to a limit on the aggregate cash that could be paid. Any such dividend would be distributed in a manner intended to count in full toward satisfaction of our annual distribution requirements and to qualify for the dividends paid deduction. While the IRS privately has ruled such a dividend would so qualify if certain requirements are met, no assurances can be provided the IRS would not assert a contrary position in the future. Moreover, a reduction in the cash yield on our common stock may negatively impact our stock price. We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions and successfully operate acquired properties. We continually evaluate the market of available properties and may acquire properties when opportunities exist. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be exposed to the following significant risks: · We may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including both publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; · Even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price or result in other less favorable terms; · Even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; · We may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; · We may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; · We may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of operating properties or portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected; · Acquired properties may be subject to reassessment, which may result in higher than expected property tax payments; · Market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and 18 Table of Contents · We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by client tenants, vendors, or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers, and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If we cannot finance property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our stockholders, market price of our common stock, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. We may suffer economic harm as a result of making unsuccessful acquisitions in new markets. We may pursue selective acquisitions of properties in markets where we have not previously owned properties. These acquisitions may entail risks in addition to those we face in other acquisitions where we are familiar with the markets, such as the risk of not correctly anticipating conditions or trends in a new market and therefore not being able to generate profit from the acquired property. If this occurs, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the market price of our common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. The acquisition of new properties or the development of new properties may give rise to difficulties in predicting revenue potential. We may continue to acquire additional properties and may seek to develop our existing land holdings strategically as warranted by market conditions. These acquisitions and developments could fail to perform in accordance with expectations. If we fail to accurately estimate occupancy levels, operating costs, or costs of improvements to bring an acquired property or a development property up to the standards established for our intended market position, the performance of the property may be below expectations. Acquired properties may have characteristics or deficiencies affecting their valuation or revenue potential that we have not yet discovered. We cannot assure our stockholders that the performance of properties acquired or developed by us will increase or be maintained under our management. We may be unsuccessful with our real estate development and redevelopment activities. A key component of our long-term business model consists of the ground-up development and redevelopment of space for lease. Our success with our development and redevelopment projects depends on many risks that may adversely affect our business, including those associated with: · Negative worldwide economic, financial, and banking conditions; · Worldwide economic recession, lack of confidence, and/or high structural unemployment; · Financial, banking, and credit market conditions; · The seizure or illiquidity of credit markets; · National, local, and worldwide economic conditions; · Delays in construction; · Budget overruns; · Lack of availability and/or increasing costs of materials; · Commodity pricing of building materials and supplies; · Financing availability; · Changes in the life sciences, financial, and banking industries; · Volatility in interest rates; · Labor availability and/or strikes; · Uncertainty of leasing; · Timing of the commencement of rental payments; · Changes in local submarket conditions; · Delays or denials of entitlements or permits; and · Other property development uncertainties. 19 Table of Contents In addition, development and redevelopment activities, regardless of whether they are ultimately successful, typically require a substantial portion of management’s time and attention. This may distract management from focusing on other operational activities. If we are unable to complete development and/or redevelopment projects successfully, our business may be adversely affected. Improvements to life science properties are significantly more costly than improvements to traditional office space. Our properties contain infrastructure improvements that are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types. Although we have historically been able to recover the additional investment in infrastructure improvements through higher rental rates, there is the risk that we will not be able to continue to do so in the future. Typical improvements include: · Reinforced concrete floors; · Upgraded roof loading capacity; · Increased floor-to-ceiling heights; · Heavy-duty heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (“HVAC”) systems; · Enhanced environmental control technology; · Significantly upgraded electrical, gas, and plumbing infrastructure; and · Laboratory benches. We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located or held for future development. As of December 31, 2012, we held ground lease obligations that included leases for 25 of our properties and four land development parcels. Excluding one ground lease related to one operating property that expires in 2036 with a net book value of approximately $8.4 million at December 31, 2012, our ground lease obligations have remaining lease terms ranging from 41 to 196 years, including extension options. If we default under the terms of any particular ground lease, we may lose the ownership rights to the property subject to the lease. Upon expiration of a ground lease and all of its options, we may not be able to renegotiate a new lease on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of the ownership rights to these properties or an increase of rental expense could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, market price of our common stock, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and pay distributions to our stockholders. We may not be able to operate properties successfully. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to operate our properties successfully. If we are unable to do so, our business could be adversely affected. The ownership and operation of real estate is subject to many risks that may adversely affect our business and our ability to make payments to our stockholders, including the risks that: · Our properties may not perform as we expect; · We may have to lease space at rates below our expectations; · We may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms; and · We may underestimate the cost of improvements required to maintain or improve space to meet standards established for the market position intended for that property. If we encounter any of these risks, our business and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We may experience increased operating costs, which may reduce profitability. Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses including insurance, property taxes, utilities, administrative costs, and other costs associated with security, landscaping, and repairs and maintenance of our properties. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 94% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) were triple net leases, requiring client tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes and insurance, common area, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. However, we cannot be certain that our client tenants will be able to bear the full burden of these higher costs, or that such increased costs will not lead them, or other prospective client tenants, to seek space elsewhere. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other comparable space in the markets we operate in may hinder or limit our ability to increase our rents; if operating expenses increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In order to maintain the quality of our properties and successfully compete against other properties, we must periodically spend money to maintain, repair, and renovate our properties, which reduces our cash flows. If our properties are not as attractive to current and prospective client tenants in terms of rent, services, condition, or location as properties owned by our competitors, we could lose client tenants or suffer lower rental rates. As a result, we may from time to time be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain the competitiveness of our properties. However, there can be no assurances that any such expenditures would result in higher occupancy or higher rental rates, or deter existing client tenants from relocating to properties owned by our competitors. We face substantial competition in our target markets. The significant competition for business in our target markets could have an adverse effect on our operations. We compete for investment opportunities with: · Other REITs; · Insurance companies; · Pension and investment funds; · Private equity entities; · Partnerships; · Developers; · Investment companies; and · Owners/occupants. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than we can or accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a client tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. Poor economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect our business. Our properties are located in the following markets: · Greater Boston; · San Francisco Bay Area; · San Diego; · Greater NYC; · Suburban Washington, D.C.; · Seattle; · Research Triangle Park; · Canada; · India; and · China. 21 Table of Contents As a result of our geographic concentration, we depend upon the local economic and real estate conditions in these markets. We are, therefore, subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to economic, tax, and other competitive factors specific to markets in confined geographic areas. Our operations may also be affected if too many competing properties are built in any of these markets. An economic downturn in any of these markets could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We cannot assure our stockholders that these markets will continue to grow or remain favorable to the life science industry. We are dependent on the life science industry, and changes within the industry may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and results of operations. In general, our business and strategy is to invest primarily in properties used by client tenants in the life science industry. Our business could be adversely affected if the life science industry is impacted by the current economic, financial, and banking crisis or if the life science industry migrates from the U.S. to other countries. Because of our industry focus, events within the life science industry may have a more pronounced effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders than if we had more diversified investments. Also, some of our properties may be better suited for a particular life science industry client tenant and could require modification before we are able to re-lease vacant space to another life science industry client tenant. Generally, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office client tenants without significant expenditures on renovations. Our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. Many life science entities have completed mergers or consolidations. Mergers or consolidations of life science entities in the future could reduce the amount of rentable square footage requirements of our client tenants and prospective client tenants, which may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and results of operations. Our inability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire may significantly affect our business. Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If a client tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other types of financial distress, it may be unable to make timely payments under its lease. Also, when our client tenants terminate early or decide not to renew their leases, we may not be able to re-lease the space. Even if client tenants decide to renew or lease space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of any tenant improvements, concessions, and lease commissions, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Consequently, we could generate less cash flow from the affected properties than expected, which could negatively impact our business. We may have to divert cash flow generated by other properties to meet our debt service payments, if any, or to pay other expenses related to owning the affected properties. As of December 31, 2012, leases at our properties representing approximately 7.9% and 8.4% of the aggregate total rentable square footage of our properties, excluding month-to-month leases, were scheduled to expire in 2013 and 2014, respectively. High levels of regulation, expense, and uncertainty may adversely affect the life science industry as well as our client tenants’ business, results of operations, and financial condition, which may adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us, and consequently, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our life science industry client tenants are subject to a number of risks unique to the life science industry, including the following, any one or more of which may adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us, and consequently, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition: · Our client tenants sell products and services in an industry that is characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, evolving industry standards, and uncertainty over the implementation of new healthcare reform legislation, which may cause them to lose competitive positions and adversely affect their operations; · Some of our client tenants developing potential drugs may find that their drugs are not effective, or may even be harmful, when tested in humans; · Some of our client tenants depend on reimbursements from various government entities or private insurance plans, and reimbursements may decrease in the future; · Some of our client tenants may not be able to manufacture their drugs economically, even if such drugs are proven through human clinical trials to be safe and effective in humans; 22 Table of Contents · Drugs that are developed and manufactured by some of our client tenants require regulatory approval, including the approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, prior to being made, marketed, sold, and used. The regulatory approval process to manufacture and market drugs is costly, typically takes several years, requires the use of substantial resources, and is often unpredictable. A client tenant may fail to obtain or experience significant delays in obtaining these approvals; · Some of our client tenants and their licensors require patent, copyright, or trade secret protection to develop, make, market, and sell their products and technologies. A client tenant may be unable to commercialize its products or technologies if patents covering such products or technologies are not issued, or are successfully challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties, or if the client tenant fails to obtain licenses to the discoveries of third parties necessary to commercialize its products or technologies; · A drug made by a client tenant may not be well accepted by doctors and patients, may be less effective or accepted than a competitor’s drug, or may be subsequently recalled from the market, even if it is successfully developed, proven safe and effective in human clinical trials, and manufactured, and the requisite regulatory approvals are obtained; · Some of our client tenants require significant funding to develop and commercialize their products and technologies, which funding must be obtained from venture capital firms; private investors; the public markets; companies in the life science industry; or federal, state, and local governments. Such funding may become unavailable or difficult to obtain. The ability of each client tenant to raise capital will depend on its financial and operating condition and the overall condition of the financial, banking, and economic environment; and · Even with sufficient funding, some of our client tenants may not be able to discover or identify potential drug targets in humans, or potential drugs for use in humans, or to create tools or technologies that are commercially useful in the discovery or identification of potential drug targets or drugs. We cannot assure our stockholders that our client tenants will be able to develop, make, market, or sell their products and technologies due to the risks inherent in the life science industry. Any client tenant that is unable to avoid, or sufficiently mitigate, the risks described above may have difficulty making rental payments to us. Government changes to the healthcare system may have a negative impact on the pricing of drugs, cost of healthcare coverage, and reimbursement of healthcare services and products. Life science entities are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. The Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many critical activities of life science and healthcare industries, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting, and product risk management. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of life science industry products depend, in part, on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third-party payers, including governments and private health plans. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement, and pricing of products to control cost or affect utilization of products. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the reimbursement by third-party payers of newly approved healthcare products. The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider reform measures that affect healthcare coverage and costs. Such reforms may include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of healthcare service and products. Government and other regulatory oversight and future regulatory and government interference with the healthcare systems may adversely impact our client tenants’ businesses and our business. Our results of operations depend on our client tenants’ research and development efforts and their ability to obtain funding for these efforts. Our client tenant base includes entities in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, life science, and related industries; academic institutions; government institutions; and private foundations. Our client tenants base their research and development budgets on several factors, including the need to develop new products, the availability of government and other funding, competition, and the general availability of resources. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, research priorities, general economic conditions, institutional and government budgetary limitations, and mergers and consolidations of entities in the life science industry. Our business could be adversely impacted by a significant decrease in life science research and development expenditures by either our client tenants or the life science industry. Additionally, our client tenants include research institutions whose funding is largely dependent on grants from government agencies such as the NIH, the National Science Foundation, and similar agencies or organizations. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is often unpredictable. Other programs, such as Homeland Security or defense, could be viewed by the government as higher priorities. Additionally, proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund research and development activities. Any shift away from funding of life science research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may adversely impact our client tenants’ operations, which in turn may impact their ability to make lease payments to us, and thus adversely impact our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The inability of a client tenant to pay us rent could adversely affect our business. Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If our client tenants, especially significant client tenants, fail to make rental payments under their leases, our financial condition, cash flows, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012, we had 494 leases with a total of 396 client tenants, and 74, or 42%, of our 178 properties were single-tenant properties. Our three largest client tenants accounted for approximately 14.7% of our aggregate annualized base rent, or approximately 6.9%, 4.2%, and 3.6%, respectively. “Annualized base rent” means the annualized fixed base rental amount in effect as of December 31, 2012, using rental revenues calculated on a straight-line basis in accordance with GAAP. Annualized base rent does not include reimbursements for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area, and other operating expenses, substantially all of which are borne by the client tenants in the case of triple net leases. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major client tenant may also adversely affect the income produced by a property. If any of our client tenants becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as amended, we cannot evict that client tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court may authorize the client tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against such a client tenant for uncollectible future rent would be subject to a statutory limitation that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed to us under the client tenant’s lease. Any shortfall in rent payments could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. U.S. government client tenants may not receive government funding, which could adversely affect their ability to pay us. U.S. government tenants are subject to government funding. If one of our U.S. government tenants fails to receive its government funding, we may not be able to collect rental amounts due to us. In addition, current budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the NIH. For instance, the significance and timing of anticipated reductions to the NIH budget may be significantly impacted by the sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011 that are scheduled to become effective on March 1, 2013, and whether these sequestration provisions remain in effect due to a failure by the U.S. federal government to enact a federal budget for 2013. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development budgets. Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development, or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals, may cause our client tenants to default on rental payments, or delay or forego leasing our rental space, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, defaults under leases with U.S. federal government tenants are governed by federal statute and not by state eviction or rent deficiency laws. As of December 31, 2012, leases with U.S. government tenants at our properties accounted for approximately 2.9% of our aggregate annualized base rent. Some of our client tenants may be subject to increasing government price controls and other healthcare cost-containment measures. Government healthcare cost-containment measures can significantly affect our client tenants’ revenue and profitability. In many countries outside the U.S., government agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which our pharmaceutical industry client tenants’ products are sold. In the U.S., our pharmaceutical industry client tenants are subject to substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and private insurance programs and pharmacy benefit managers, and implementation of the recently-enacted U.S. healthcare reform legislation is increasing these pricing pressures. In addition, many state legislative proposals could further negatively affect their pricing and/or reimbursement for our pharmaceutical industry client tenants’ products. We anticipate pricing pressures from both governments and private payers inside and outside the U.S. to become more severe over time. We could be held liable for damages resulting from our client tenants’ use of hazardous materials. Many of our life science industry client tenants engage in research and development activities that involve controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, and biological and radioactive compounds. In the event of contamination or injury from the use of these hazardous materials, we could be held liable for damages that result. This liability could exceed our resources and any recovery available through any applicable insurance coverage, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Together with our client tenants, we must comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or changes in them, could adversely affect our business or our client tenants’ businesses and their ability to make rental payments to us. 24 Table of Contents Our properties may have defects that are unknown to us. Although we review the physical condition of our properties before they are acquired, from time to time, as they are developed and redeveloped, any of our properties may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to us that could adversely affect the property’s value or revenue potential. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. Under the ADA, places of public accommodation and/or commercial facilities must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with this law. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. A number of additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations exist regarding access by disabled persons. These regulations may require modifications to our properties or may affect future renovations. These expenditures may have an adverse impact on overall returns on our investments. We may incur significant costs if we fail to comply with laws or if laws change. Our properties are subject to many federal, state, and local regulatory requirements and to state and local fire, life-safety, and other requirements. If we do not comply with all of these requirements, we may have to pay fines to government authorities or damage awards to private litigants. We do not know whether these requirements will change or whether new requirements will be imposed. Changes in these regulatory requirements could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. These expenditures could have an adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws. Federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations may require us, as a current or prior owner or operator of real estate, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products released at or from any of our properties. The cost of investigating and cleaning up contamination could be substantial and could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage available to us. In addition, the presence of contamination, or the failure to properly clean it up, may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell an affected property, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Under environmental laws and regulations, we may have to pay government entities or third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by those parties relating to contaminated properties regardless of whether we knew of or caused the contamination. Even if more than one party was responsible for the contamination, we may be held responsible for all of the cleanup costs. In addition, third parties may sue us for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination or jointly responsible parties may contest their responsibility or be financially unable to pay their share of such costs. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of asbestos-containing materials. These laws may impose fines and penalties on us for the release of asbestos-containing materials and may allow third parties to seek recovery from us for personal injury from exposure to asbestos fibers. We have detected asbestos-containing materials at some of our properties, but we do not expect that they will result in material environmental costs or liabilities to us. Environmental laws and regulations also require the removal or upgrading of certain underground storage tanks and regulate: · The discharge of storm water, wastewater, and any water pollutants; · The emission of air pollutants; · The generation, management, and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals, substances, or wastes; and · Workplace health and safety. Many of our client tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our client tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities. Environmental liabilities could also affect a client tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our client tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities. 25 Table of Contents Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental assessments at our properties. We intend to use consultants to conduct similar environmental assessments on our future acquisitions. This type of assessment generally includes a site inspection, interviews, and a public records review, but no subsurface sampling. These assessments and certain additional investigations of our properties have not to date revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations. The additional investigations have included, as appropriate: · Asbestos surveys; · Radon surveys; · Lead surveys; · Mold surveys; · Additional public records review; · Subsurface sampling; and · Other testing. Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our current properties have not revealed, and that assessments on future acquisitions will not reveal, all environmental liabilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware that may result in substantial costs to us or our client tenants and that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs to remedy the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold may grow, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses, and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our client tenants, employees of our client tenants, and others if property damage or health concerns arise. We could incur significant costs due to the financial condition of our insurance carriers. We insure our properties with insurance companies that we believe have a good rating at the time our policies are put into effect. The financial condition of one or more of the insurance companies that we hold policies with may be negatively impacted, resulting in their inability to pay on future insurance claims. Their inability to pay future claims may have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, the failure of one or more insurance companies may increase the cost of renewing our insurance policies or increase the cost of insuring additional properties and recently developed or redeveloped properties. Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses. If we experience a loss at any of our properties that is not covered by insurance, that exceeds our insurance policy limits, or is subject to a policy deductible, we could lose the capital invested in the affected property and, possibly, future revenues from that property. In addition, we could continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the affected properties. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. We have obtained earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake faults. We also carry environmental remediation insurance and have title insurance policies for our properties. We generally obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire the property; each policy covers an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property. 26 Table of Contents Our client tenants are also required to maintain comprehensive insurance, including liability and casualty insurance that is customarily obtained for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that we and our client tenants do not generally insure against because they are uninsurable or because it is not economical to insure against them. The availability of coverage against certain types of losses, such as from terrorism or toxic mold, has become more limited and, when available, carries a significantly higher cost. We cannot predict whether insurance coverage against terrorism or toxic mold will remain available for our properties because insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against such losses, or such coverage, if offered, may become prohibitively expensive. We have not had material problems with terrorism or toxic mold at any of our properties. We face possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change. We cannot predict the rate at which climate change will progress. However, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations, and business. For example, most of our properties are located along the east and west coasts of the U.S. To the extent that climate change impacts changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea levels. Over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for life science laboratory space at our properties or result in our inability to operate the buildings at all. Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of, or availability of, property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy, and increasing the cost of snow removal at our properties. There can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations, or business. Extreme weather or natural disasters may cause property damage or disrupt business, which could harm our business and operating results. We have properties located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, earthquakes, winds, floods, hurricanes, and fires. Such conditions may damage our properties, disrupt our operations, and adversely impact our client tenants’ operations. There can be no assurance that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations, or business. Terrorist attacks may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. Terrorist attacks such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and market price of our common stock. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. To the extent that future terrorist attacks impact our client tenants, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their lease obligations. The loss of services of any of our senior officers could adversely affect us. We depend upon the services of relatively few senior officers. The loss of services of any one of them may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and prospects. We use the extensive personal and business relationships that members of our management have developed over time with owners of life science properties and with major life science industry client tenants. We cannot assure our stockholders that our senior officers will remain employed with us. Competition for skilled personnel could increase labor costs. We compete with various other companies in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our company. Competitive pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may not be able to offset such additional costs by increasing the rates we charge client tenants. If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed at corporate rates and would not be able to take certain deductions when computing our taxable income. If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify as a REIT: · We would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing taxable income; · Unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification; and · We would no longer be required by the Internal Revenue Code to make any distributions to our stockholders. As a result of any additional tax liability, we may need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Accordingly, funds available for investment or distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and financial results, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we believe that we have operated in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure our stockholders that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, although we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to operate as a REIT, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders. We may change our business policies without stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors determines all of our material business policies, with management’s input, including those related to our: · Status as a REIT; · Incurrence of debt and debt management activities; · Selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment activities; · Stockholder distributions; and · Other policies, as appropriate. Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these policies could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatement because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially harmed, and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. 28 Table of Contents Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures, and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional significant costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. There are limits on the ownership of our capital stock under which a stockholder may lose beneficial ownership of its shares and that may delay or prevent transactions that might otherwise be desired by our stockholders. In order for a company to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% of the value of its outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals or entities (as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code) during the last half of a taxable year. Furthermore, shares of the company’s outstanding stock must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, among other reasons, our charter provides for an ownership limit, which prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership of shares of stock representing more than 9.8% of the combined total value of our outstanding shares of stock by any person, as defined in our charter. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may waive the ownership limit for any person. However, our Board of Directors may not grant such waiver if, after giving effect to such waiver, we would be “closely held” under section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code. As a condition to waiving the ownership limit, our Board of Directors may require a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of counsel in order to determine our status as a REIT. Notwithstanding the receipt of any such ruling or opinion, our Board of Directors may impose such conditions or restrictions as it deems appropriate in connection with granting a waiver. Our charter further prohibits transferring shares of our stock if such transfer would result in us being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code or would result in shares of our stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of our common stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. A transfer of shares to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates these limits, shall be void, or the shares shall be exchanged for shares of excess stock and transferred to a trust, for the benefit of one or more qualified charitable organizations designated by us. In that case, the intended transferee will have only a right to share, to the extent of the transferee’s original purchase price for such shares, in proceeds from the trust’s sale of those shares and will effectively forfeit its beneficial ownership of the shares. These ownership limits could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the holders of our common stock or that might otherwise be desired by such holders. In addition to the ownership limit, certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that may be deemed to be desirable to our stockholders. As authorized by Maryland law, our charter allows our Board of Directors to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify unissued shares of common or preferred stock without any stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that might, for other reasons, be desired by our common stockholders or that have a dividend preference that may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our charter permits the removal of a director only upon a two-thirds vote of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors, and our bylaws require advance notice of a stockholder’s intention to nominate directors or to present business for consideration by stockholders at an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or change in control that involves a premium price for our common stock or that for other reasons may be desired by our stockholders. 29 Table of Contents External factors may adversely impact the valuation of investments. We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies and privately held entities primarily involved in the life science industry. The valuation of these investments is affected by many external factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, market prices, market conditions, the effect of healthcare reform legislation, prospects for favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product initiatives, the manufacturing and distribution of new products, product safety and efficacy issues, and new collaborative agreements. Unfavorable developments with respect to any of these factors may have an adverse impact on the valuation of our investments. We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments. From time to time, we may have significant cash balances that we invest in a variety of short-term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. These investments may include (either directly or indirectly) obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks, money market funds, treasury bank securities, and other short-term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances we may be required to redeem all or part of these securities or funds at less than par value. A decline in the value of our investments or delay or suspension of our right to redeem may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay our obligations as they become due. We have certain ownership interests outside the U.S. that may subject us to risks different from or greater than those associated with our domestic operations. We have five operating properties in Canada as well as four operating properties and three development projects in Asia, with an aggregate investment in real estate of approximately $191.0 million and $237.8 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. Acquisition, development, redevelopment, ownership, and operating activities outside the U.S. involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but are not limited to: · Adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies; · Challenges and/or taxation with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings or repatriation of proceeds from the sale of one or more of our foreign investments; · Changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally; · Challenges in managing international operations; · Challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment, and legal proceedings; · Differences in lending practices; · Differences in languages, cultures, and time zones; and · Changes in applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations. Investments in international markets may also subject us to risks associated with establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar foreign laws and regulations. The FCPA and similar applicable anti-corruption laws prohibit individuals and entities from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing, or providing payments or anything of value, directly or indirectly, to government officials in order to obtain, retain, or direct business. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations or the value of our international investments. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our international operations, our overall financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Further, we may in the future enter into agreements with non-U.S. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution rules of, another country or region. In some cases, such a country or region might not have a forum which provides us an effective or efficient means for resolving disputes that may arise under these agreements. We are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. We have properties and operations in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the local currency and we thus are subject to international currency risk from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currency. A significant decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar, Indian rupee, Chinese renminbi, or other currencies in countries where we may have an investment could materially affect our results of operations. We may attempt to mitigate such effects by borrowing in the local foreign currency in which we invest. Any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. 30 Table of Contents Security breaches through cyber-attacks, cyber-intrusions, or otherwise, could disrupt our information technology networks and related systems. Risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, or otherwise, against persons inside our organization, persons with access to systems inside our organization, the U.S. government, financial markets or institutions, or major businesses, including client tenants, could disrupt or disable networks and related systems, other critical infrastructures, and the normal operation of business. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber-terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Even though we may not be specifically targeted, cyber-attacks on the U.S. government, financial markets, financial institutions, or other major businesses, including client tenants, could disrupt our normal business operations and networks, which may in turn have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations, including managing our building systems. They also may be critical to the operations of certain of our client tenants. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems, and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. While, to date, we have not experienced a cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventive measures. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could: · Disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our client tenants; · Result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines and/or missed permitting deadlines; · Result in our inability to properly monitor our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT; · Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation, or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive, or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive, or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; · Result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our client tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; · Require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; · Subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties, or termination of leases or other agreements; or · Damage our reputation among our client tenants and investors generally. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents Changes in the method of determining or the discontinuation of LIBOR may adversely affect interest expense related to outstanding debt. We hold certain instruments in our debt profile on which interest rates move in direct relation to LIBOR, depending on our selection of borrowing options. Beginning in 2008, concerns have been raised that some of the member banks surveyed by the British Bankers’ Association (the “BBA”) in connection with the calculation of daily LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have under-reported, over-reported, or otherwise manipulated the interbank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that might have resulted from reporting interbank lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. At least one BBA member bank has entered into a settlement with a number of its regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations by regulators and government authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing. Other member banks may also enter into such settlements with, or have proceedings brought by, their regulators or law enforcement agencies in the future. If manipulation of LIBOR occurred, it may have resulted in LIBOR being artificially lower (or higher) than it would otherwise have been. Any such manipulation could have occurred over a substantial period of time. On September 28, 2012, British regulators published a report on the review of LIBOR. The report concluded that LIBOR should be retained as a benchmark, but recommended a comprehensive reform of LIBOR, including replacing the BBA with a new independent administrator of LIBOR. The British government endorsed recommendations made by the report and instructed the institutions involved in the process of setting LIBOR to implement those recommendations. Any changes in the method pursuant to which LIBOR is determined, as well as manipulative practices or the cessation thereof, may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the level of the index. Fluctuation or discontinuation of LIBOR would affect our interest expense and earnings and the fair value of certain of our financial instruments. We rely on interest rate swaps to help mitigate our exposure to such interest rate risk, on a portion of our debt obligations. However, there is no assurance these arrangements will be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES General As of December 31, 2012, we had 178 properties containing approximately 17.1 million rentable square feet of life science laboratory space. Our operating properties were approximately 93.4% leased as of December 31, 2012. The exteriors of our properties typically resemble traditional office properties, but the interior infrastructures are designed to accommodate the needs of life science industry client tenants. These improvements typically are generic to life science industry client tenants rather than being specific to a particular client tenant. As a result, we believe that the improvements have long-term value and utility and are usable by a wide range of life science industry client tenants. Laboratory improvements to our life science properties typically include: · Reinforced concrete floors; · Upgraded roof loading capacity; · Increased floor-to-ceiling heights; · Heavy-duty HVAC systems; · Enhanced environmental control technology; · Significantly upgraded electrical, gas, and plumbing infrastructure; and · Laboratory benches. As of December 31, 2012, we held a fee simple interest in each of our properties, except for 25 properties that accounted for approximately 23% of the total rentable square footage of our properties. Of the 25 properties, we held 13 properties in the Greater Boston market, five properties in the San Francisco Bay Area market, one property in the Greater NYC market, one property in the Suburban Washington, D.C., market, one property in the Research Triangle Park market, and four properties in the International market pursuant to ground leasehold interests. As of December 31, 2012, our asset base also contained three land parcels aggregating approximately 2.0 million developable square feet in India, which we held pursuant to ground leasehold interests. See further discussion in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” As of December 31, 2012, we had 494 leases with a total of 396 client tenants, and 74, or 42%, of our 178 properties were single-tenant properties. Leases in our multi-tenant buildings typically have terms of three to seven years, while the single-tenant building leases typically have initial terms of 10 to 20 years. As of December 31, 2012: · Approximately 94% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) were triple net leases, requiring client tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent; · Approximately 96% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) contained effective annual rent escalations that were either fixed (generally ranging from 3% to 3.5%) or indexed based on a consumer price index or other index; · Approximately 92% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) provided for the recapture of certain capital expenditures (such as HVAC systems maintenance and/or replacement, roof replacement, and parking lot resurfacing), which we believe would typically be borne by the landlord in traditional office leases; and · Investment-grade client tenants represented 47% of our total annualized base rent. Our leases also typically give us the right to review and approve tenant alterations to the property. Generally, tenant-installed improvements to the properties are reusable generic life science laboratory improvements and remain our property after termination of the lease at our election. However, we are permitted under the terms of most of our leases to require that the client tenant, at its expense, remove certain non-generic improvements and restore the premises to their original condition. 33 Table of Contents Summary of lease expirations The following table summarizes information with respect to the lease expirations at our properties as of December 31, 2012: Year of Lease Expiration Number of Leases Expiring Rentable Square Feet (“RSF”) of Expiring Leases Percentage of Aggregate Total RSF Annualized Base Rent of Expiring Leases (per RSF) 2013 92 (1) 1,122,071 (1) 7.9% $27.52 2014 88 1,188,795 8.4% $31.30 2015 72 1,376,412 9.7% $32.80 2016 55 1,450,110 10.2% $30.10 2017 60 1,542,680 10.9% $30.76 2018 24 1,141,470 8.0% $39.50 2019 20 663,463 4.7% $33.50 2020 16 772,974 5.4% $41.08 2021 21 829,431 5.8% $36.77 2022 15 545,344 3.8% $31.43 Thereafter 21 2,095,674 14.7% $39.78 Annualized 2013 RSF of Expiring Leases Base Rent of Negotiating/ Targeted for Remaining Expiring Leases Market Rent Market Leased Anticipating Redevelopment Expiring Leases Total (per RSF) per RSF (1) Greater Boston 4,679 35,077 – 105,746 145,502 $ 36.78 $25.00 - $59.00 San Francisco Bay Area 56,862 61,058 – 205,104 323,024 32.39 $20.00 - $47.00 San Diego 2,835 – 176,500 (2) 135,069 314,404 19.46 $16.00 - $36.00 Greater NYC – – – – – – N/A Suburban Washington, D.C. – 121,068 (3) – 101,256 222,324 30.58 $15.00 - $32.00 Seattle – – – 7,192 7,192 17.35 $17.00 - $44.00 Research Triangle Park 9,464 12,261 – 52,213 73,938 19.52 $10.00 - $32.00 Canada – – – – – – N/A Non-cluster markets 15,463 4,006 – 5,873 25,342 17.68 $14.00 - $24.00 Asia – 2,314 – 8,031 10,345 12.94 (4) $11.00 - $26.00 Total 89,303 235,784 176,500 620,484 1,122,071 (5) $ 27.52 Percentage of expiring leases 8 % 21 % 16 % 55 % 100 % Annualized 2014 RSF of Expiring Leases Base Rent of Negotiating/ Targeted for Remaining Expiring Leases Market Rent Market Leased Anticipating Redevelopment Expiring Leases Total (per RSF) per RSF (1) Greater Boston – 63,360 – 265,788 329,148 $ 38.42 $25.00 - $59.00 San Francisco Bay Area 91,644 – – 278,808 370,452 31.56 $20.00 - $47.00 San Diego – – – 43,894 43,894 27.63 $16.00 - $36.00 Greater NYC – 5,271 – 89,954 95,225 40.78 $20.00 - $70.00 Suburban Washington, D.C. – 10,778 85,297 (6) 76,136 172,211 19.42 $15.00 - $32.00 Seattle – 6,849 – 13,213 20,062 47.75 $17.00 - $44.00 Research Triangle Park – 10,527 – 34,496 45,023 22.71 $10.00 - $32.00 Canada – 13,031 – 80,127 93,158 23.37 $13.00 - $28.00 Non-cluster markets – – – – – – N/A Asia – 12,720 – 6,902 19,622 13.74 (4) $11.00 - $26.00 Total 91,644 122,536 85,297 889,318 1,188,795 $ 31.30 Percentage of expiring leases 8 % 10 % 7 % 75 % 100 % (1) Based upon rental rates achieved in recently executed leases over the trailing 12 months and our estimate of market rents. (2) Represents a project containing 176,500 rentable square feet of non-laboratory space at 3013/3033 Science Park Road, which consists of two buildings acquired in April 2012. The property was 100% leased on a short-term basis to a non-life science tenant and thereafter, we expect to redevelop the property. (3) Includes 54,906 rentable square feet at 5 Research Court. We expect the tenant to extend their lease beyond their 2013 lease expiration date. This property consists of non-laboratory space and upon rollover will undergo conversion into laboratory space through redevelopment. (4) Our current investment in this property is approximately $86 per rentable square foot. (5) Excludes 11 month-to-month leases for approximately 33,638 rentable square feet. (6) Represents projects containing 60,000 rentable square feet and 25,000 rentable square feet at 930 Clopper Road and 1500 East Gude Drive, respectively, which we expect to convert from non-laboratory space to laboratory space through redevelopment. 34 Table of Contents Client tenants Our life science properties are leased to a diverse group of client tenants, with no client tenant accounting for more than 6.9% of our annualized base rent. The following table sets forth information regarding leases with our 20 largest client tenants based upon annualized base rent as of December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands): Percentage Percentage of of Investment-Grade Remaining Lease Approximate Aggregate Aggregate Client Tenants (3) Number Term in Years Aggregate Total Annualized Annualized Fitch Moody’s S&P Education/ Client Tenant of Leases (1) (2) RSF Square Feet Base Rent Base Rent Rating Rating Rating Research 1 Novartis AG 11 4.0 4.2 608,876 3.6 % $ 30,508 6.9 % AA Aa2 AA- – 2 Illumina, Inc. 1 18.8 18.8 473,954 2.8 18,574 4.2 – – – – 3 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 6 4.9 5.1 419,624 2.5 15,840 3.6 A A2 A+ – 4 Eli Lilly and Company 5 8.6 10.2 262,182 1.5 15,068 3.4 A A2 AA- – 5 FibroGen, Inc. 1 10.9 10.9 234,249 1.4 14,197 3.2 – – – – 6 Roche 3 5.2 5.3 348,918 2.0 13,867 3.1 AA- A1 AA – 7 United States Government 8 4.0 5.0 324,577 1.9 12,735 2.9 AAA Aaa AA+ – 8 GlaxoSmithKline plc 5 6.9 6.6 208,394 1.2 10,266 2.3 A+ A1 A+ – 9 Celgene Corporation 4 8.5 8.4 255,779 1.5 9,540 2.2 – Baa2 BBB+ – 10 Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 4 9.2 9.8 257,287 1.5 9,030 2.1 – – – – 11 Massachusetts Institute of Technology 3 4.4 4.7 178,952 1.0 8,230 1.9 – Aaa AAA ü 12 The Regents of the University of California 3 8.6 8.7 188,654 1.1 7,787 1.8 AA Aa1 AA ü 13 NYU-Neuroscience Translational Research Institute 2 12.5 11.4 82,170 0.5 7,642 1.7 A- A3 AA- ü 14 Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1 3.8 3.8 129,424 0.8 6,066 1.4 – – – – 15 Gilead Sciences, Inc. 1 7.5 7.5 109,969 0.6 5,824 1.3 – Baa1 A- – 16 Pfizer Inc. 2 6.4 6.2 116,518 0.7 5,502 1.2 A+ A1 AA – 17 The Scripps Research Institute 2 3.9 3.9 99,377 0.6 5,200 1.2 AA- Aa3 – ü 18 Theravance, Inc. (4) 2 7.4 7.4 130,342 0.8 4,895 1.1 – – – – 19 Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2 2.1 2.1 68,020 0.4 4,423 1.0 – – – – 20 Qiagen N.V. 2 3.5 3.5 158,879 0.9 4,380 1.0 – – – – Total/Weighted Average Top 20: 68 7.5 7.7 4,656,145 27.3 % $ 209,574 47.5 % (1) Represents remaining lease term in years based on percentage of leased square feet. (2) Represents remaining lease term in years based on percentage of annualized base rent in effect as of December 31, 2012. (3) Ratings obtained from Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service, and Standard & Poor’s. (4) As of October 24, 2012, GlaxoSmithKline plc owned approximately 27% of the outstanding stock of Theravance, Inc. The chart below shows client tenant business types by annualized base rent as of December 31, 2012: 35 Table of Contents Location of properties The locations of our properties are diversified among a number of life science cluster markets. The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2012, the total rentable square feet and annualized base rent of our properties in each of our existing markets (dollars in thousands): Rentable Square Feet Number of Market Operating Development Redevelopment Total % Total Properties Annualized Base Rent Greater Boston 3,021,427 305,212 97,862 3,424,501 20 % 35 $ 115,752 26 % San Francisco Bay Area 2,486,752 222,780 53,980 2,763,512 16 25 96,952 22 San Diego 2,722,456 – 95,381 2,817,837 17 36 86,942 20 Greater NYC 534,827 419,806 – 954,633 6 7 32,115 7 Suburban Washington, D.C. 2,360,990 – 75,056 2,436,046 14 31 50,157 11 Seattle 636,838 – 109,345 746,183 4 10 26,001 6 Research Triangle Park 941,807 – – 941,807 6 14 19,386 5 Canada 1,096,077 – – 1,096,077 6 5 9,368 2 Non-cluster markets 61,002 – – 61,002 – 2 590 – North America 13,862,176 947,798 431,624 15,241,598 89 165 437,263 99 Asia 587,662 618,976 115,468 1,322,106 8 9 4,188 1 Continuing operations 14,449,838 1,566,774 547,092 16,563,704 97 174 $ 441,451 100 % Discontinued operations 504,130 – – 504,130 3 4 Total 14,953,968 1,566,774 547,092 17,067,834 100 % 178 (1) Annualized base rent means the annualized fixed base rental amount in effect as of December 31, 2012 (using rental revenue computed on a straight-line basis in accordance with GAAP). Represents annualized base rent related to our operating rentable square feet. (2) Certain properties are pledged as security under our secured notes payable as of December 31, 2012. See Schedule III — Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Rental Properties and Accumulated Depreciation of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. in “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules” for additional information on our properties, including encumbered properties. The chart below illustrates our annualized base rent as of December 31, 2012, in leading “brain trust” cluster markets: 36 Table of Contents Property listing The following table provides certain information about our operating properties as of December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands): Occupancy Percentage Rentable Square Feet Number of Annualized Operating and Address Submarket Operating Development Redevelopment Total Properties Base Rent Operating Redevelopment Greater Boston 100 Technology Square Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 255,441 – – 255,441 1 $ 17,180 100.0 % 100.0 % 200 Technology Square Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 177,101 – – 177,101 1 10,411 100.0 100.0 300 Technology Square Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 175,609 – – 175,609 1 7,701 88.9 88.9 400 Technology Square Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 140,532 – 71,592 212,124 1 7,439 100.0 66.2 500 Technology Square Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 184,207 – – 184,207 1 10,041 98.4 98.4 600 Technology Square Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 128,224 – – 128,224 1 4,383 99.6 99.6 700 Technology Square Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 48,930 – – 48,930 1 1,548 82.4 82.4 161 First Street Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 46,356 – – 46,356 1 1,955 99.5 99.5 167 Sidney Street Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 26,589 – – 26,589 1 1,392 100.0 100.0 215 First Street Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 366,719 – – 366,719 1 10,633 86.2 86.2 225 Binney Street Cambridge/Inner Suburbs – 305,212 – 305,212 1 – N/A N/A 300 Third Street Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 131,963 – – 131,963 1 6,520 100.0 100.0 480 Arsenal Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 140,744 – – 140,744 1 4,644 100.0 100.0 500 Arsenal Street Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 93,516 – – 93,516 1 3,402 100.0 100.0 780/790 Memorial Drive Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 99,350 – – 99,350 2 6,634 100.0 100.0 79/96 Charlestown Navy Yard Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 25,309 – – 25,309 1 171 34.8 34.8 99 Erie Street Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 27,960 – – 27,960 1 1,143 100.0 100.0 100 Beaver Street Route 128 82,330 – – 82,330 1 2,286 100.0 100.0 285 Bear Hill Road Route 128 – – 26,270 26,270 1 – N/A – 19 Presidential Way Route 128 128,325 – – 128,325 1 3,398 100.0 100.0 29 Hartwell Avenue Route 128 59,000 – – 59,000 1 2,049 100.0 100.0 3 Preston Court Route 128 30,123 – – 30,123 1 395 44.4 44.4 35 Hartwell Avenue Route 128 46,700 – – 46,700 1 1,650 100.0 100.0 35 Wiggins Avenue Route 128 48,640 – – 48,640 1 878 100.0 100.0 44 Hartwell Avenue Route 128 26,828 – – 26,828 1 1,105 100.0 100.0 45/47 Wiggins Avenue Route 128 38,000 – – 38,000 1 1,114 100.0 100.0 60 Westview Street Route 128 40,200 – – 40,200 1 1,147 100.0 100.0 6/8 Preston Court Route 128 54,391 – – 54,391 1 752 100.0 100.0 111 Forbes Boulevard Route 495/Worcester 58,280 – – 58,280 1 261 28.6 28.6 130 Forbes Boulevard Route 495/Worcester 97,566 – – 97,566 1 871 100.0 100.0 20 Walkup Drive Route 495/Worcester 91,045 – – 91,045 1 653 100.0 100.0 30 Bearfoot Road Route 495/Worcester 60,759 – – 60,759 1 2,765 100.0 100.0 306 Belmont Street Route 495/Worcester 78,916 – – 78,916 1 1,139 100.0 100.0 350 Plantation Street Route 495/Worcester 11,774 – – 11,774 1 92 42.5 42.5 Greater Boston 3,021,427 305,212 97,862 3,424,501 35 $ 115,752 94.6 % 91.6 % San Francisco Bay Area 1500 Owens Street Mission Bay 158,267 – – 158,267 1 $ 7,029 97.8 % 97.8 % 1700 Owens Street Mission Bay 157,340 – – 157,340 1 10,099 99.6 99.6 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South Mission Bay 210,398 – – 210,398 1 8,805 97.8 97.8 409/499 Illinois Street Mission Bay 234,249 222,780 – 457,029 2 14,197 100.0 100.0 249/259 East Grand Avenue South San Francisco 300,119 – – 300,119 2 11,464 100.0 100.0 341/343 Oyster Point Boulevard South San Francisco 53,980 – 53,980 107,960 2 1,189 100.0 50.0 400/450 East Jamie Court South San Francisco 163,036 – – 163,036 2 4,075 79.6 79.6 500 Forbes Boulevard South San Francisco 155,685 – – 155,685 1 5,540 100.0 100.0 600/630/650 Gateway Boulevard South San Francisco 150,960 – – 150,960 3 4,400 96.9 96.9 681 Gateway Boulevard South San Francisco 126,971 – – 126,971 1 6,161 100.0 100.0 7000 Shoreline Court South San Francisco 136,395 – – 136,395 1 4,167 99.7 99.7 901/951 Gateway Boulevard South San Francisco 170,244 – – 170,244 2 5,573 100.0 100.0 2425 Garcia Avenue & 2400/2450 Bayshore Parkway Peninsula 98,964 – – 98,964 1 3,232 96.6 96.6 2625/2627/2631 Hanover Street Peninsula 32,074 – – 32,074 1 1,328 100.0 100.0 3165 Porter Drive Peninsula 91,644 – – 91,644 1 3,929 100.0 100.0 3350 West Bayshore Road Peninsula 60,000 – – 60,000 1 1,530 100.0 100.0 75/125 Shoreway Road Peninsula 82,815 – – 82,815 1 2,044 100.0 100.0 849/863 Mitten Road & 866 Malcolm Road Peninsula 103,611 – – 103,611 1 2,190 95.5 95.5 San Francisco Bay Area 2,486,752 222,780 53,980 2,763,512 25 $ 96,952 97.8 % 95.7 % 37 Table of Contents Property listing (continued) Occupancy Percentage Rentable Square Feet Number of Annualized Operating and Address Submarket Operating Development Redevelopment Total Properties Base Rent Operating Redevelopment San Diego 10931/10933 North Torrey Pines Road Torrey Pines 96,641 – – 96,641 1 $ 3,081 95.7 % 95.7 % 10975 North Torrey Pines Road Torrey Pines 44,733 – – 44,733 1 1,595 100.0 100.0 11119 North Torrey Pines Road Torrey Pines 45,287 – 26,958 72,245 1 1,495 100.0 62.7 3010 Science Park Road Torrey Pines 74,557 – – 74,557 1 3,215 100.0 100.0 3013/3033 Science Park Road (1) Torrey Pines 176,500 – – 176,500 1 3,055 100.0 100.0 3115/3215 Merryfield Row Torrey Pines 158,645 – – 158,645 2 7,125 100.0 100.0 3530/3550 John Hopkins Court & 3535/3565 General Atomics Court Torrey Pines 220,569 – – 220,569 4 7,815 93.4 93.4 10300 Campus Point Drive University Town Center 449,759 – – 449,759 1 15,783 96.1 96.1 4755/4757/4767 Nexus Center Drive University Town Center 110,535 – 68,423 178,958 3 4,252 100.0 61.8 5200 Illumina Way University Town Center 473,954 – – 473,954 1 18,574 100.0 100.0 9363/9373/9393 Towne Center Drive University Town Center 128,844 – – 128,844 3 3,627 100.0 100.0 9880 Campus Point Drive University Town Center 71,510 – – 71,510 1 2,774 100.0 100.0 5810/5820 Nancy Ridge Drive Sorrento Mesa 87,298 – – 87,298 1 1,641 88.7 88.7 5871 Oberlin Drive Sorrento Mesa 33,817 – – 33,817 1 478 48.0 48.0 6138/6150 Nancy Ridge Drive Sorrento Mesa 56,698 – – 56,698 1 1,586 100.0 100.0 6146/6166 Nancy Ridge Drive Sorrento Mesa 51,273 – – 51,273 2 639 57.2 57.2 6175/6225/6275 Nancy Ridge Drive Sorrento Mesa 105,812 – – 105,812 3 1,215 55.5 55.5 7330 Carroll Road Sorrento Mesa 66,244 – – 66,244 1 2,341 100.0 100.0 10505 Roselle Street & 3770 Tansy Street Sorrento Valley 33,013 – – 33,013 2 1,001 100.0 100.0 11025/11035/11045 Roselle Street Sorrento Valley 66,442 – – 66,442 3 1,621 100.0 100.0 3985 Sorrento Valley Boulevard Sorrento Valley 60,545 – – 60,545 1 1,534 100.0 100.0 13112 Evening Creek Drive I-15 Corridor 109,780 – – 109,780 1 2,495 100.0 100.0 San Diego 2,722,456 – 95,381 2,817,837 36 $ 86,942 95.1 % 91.9 % Greater NYC 430 East 29th Street Manhattan – 419,806 – 419,806 1 $ – N/A N/A 450 East 29th Street Manhattan 309,141 – – 309,141 1 25,195 99.8 % 99.8 % 100 Phillips Parkway Bergen County 78,501 – – 78,501 1 2,213 90.8 90.8 102 Witmer Road Pennsylvania 50,000 – – 50,000 1 3,345 100.0 100.0 5100 Campus Drive Pennsylvania 21,859 – – 21,859 1 274 100.0 100.0 701 Veterans Circle Pennsylvania 35,155 – – 35,155 1 735 100.0 100.0 702 Electronic Drive Pennsylvania 40,171 – – 40,171 1 353 62.3 62.3 Greater NYC 534,827 419,806 – 954,633 7 $ 32,115 95.7 % 95.7 % Suburban Washington, D.C. 12301 Parklawn Drive Rockville 49,185 – – 49,185 1 $ 1,169 100.0 % 100.0 % 1330 Piccard Drive Rockville 131,511 – – 131,511 1 2,876 94.0 94.0 1405 Research Boulevard Rockville 71,669 – – 71,669 1 2,119 100.0 100.0 1500/1550 East Gude Drive (2) Rockville 90,489 – – 90,489 2 1,386 77.3 77.3 14920 Broschart Road Rockville 48,500 – – 48,500 1 1,073 100.0 100.0 15010 Broschart Road Rockville 38,203 – – 38,203 1 741 85.8 85.8 5 Research Court (3) Rockville 54,906 – – 54,906 1 1,425 100.0 100.0 5 Research Place Rockville 63,852 – – 63,852 1 2,364 100.0 100.0 9800 Medical Center Drive Rockville 206,530 – 75,056 281,586 4 7,028 89.6 65.7 9920 Medical Center Drive Rockville 58,733 – – 58,733 1 455 100.0 100.0 1201 Clopper Road Gaithersburg 143,585 – – 143,585 1 3,984 100.0 100.0 1300 Quince Orchard Road Gaithersburg 54,874 – – 54,874 1 997 100.0 100.0 16020 Industrial Drive Gaithersburg 71,000 – – 71,000 1 1,052 100.0 100.0 19/20/22 Firstfield Road Gaithersburg 132,639 – – 132,639 3 3,229 95.9 95.9 25/35/45 West Watkins Mill Road Gaithersburg 138,938 – – 138,938 1 3,616 100.0 100.0 401 Professional Drive Gaithersburg 63,154 – – 63,154 1 959 78.9 78.9 620 Professional Drive Gaithersburg 26,127 – – 26,127 1 – – – 708 Quince Orchard Road Gaithersburg 49,624 – – 49,624 1 1,145 99.3 99.3 9 West Watkins Mill Road Gaithersburg 92,449 – – 92,449 1 2,766 100.0 100.0 910 Clopper Road Gaithersburg 180,650 – – 180,650 1 3,237 87.1 87.1 930/940 Clopper Road (4) Gaithersburg 104,302 – – 104,302 2 1,654 93.4 93.4 950 Wind River Lane Gaithersburg 50,000 – – 50,000 1 1,082 100.0 100.0 8000/9000/10000 Virginia Manor Road Beltsville 191,884 – – 191,884 1 1,459 56.3 56.3 14225 Newbrook Drive Northern Virginia 248,186 – – 248,186 1 4,341 100.0 100.0 Suburban Washington, D.C. 2,360,990 – 75,056 2,436,046 31 $ 50,157 90.9 % 88.1 % (1) Represents a project containing 176,500 rentable square feet of non-laboratory space at 3013/3033 Science Park Road, which consists of two buildings acquired in April 2012. The property was 100% leased on a short-term basis to a non-life science tenant and thereafter, we expect to redevelop the property. (2) Represents a project containing 25,000 rentable square feet of non-laboratory space, which we intend to convert into laboratory space through redevelopment. (3) Represents a project containing 54,906 rentable square feet at 5 Research Court. We expect the tenant to extend their lease beyond their 2013 lease expiration date. This property consists of non-laboratory space and upon rollover will undergo conversion into laboratory space through redevelopment. (4) Represents a project containing 60,000 rentable square feet of non-laboratory space, which we intend to convert into laboratory space through redevelopment. 38 Table of Contents Property listing (continued) Occupancy Percentage Rentable Square Feet Number of Annualized Operating and Address Submarket Operating Development Redevelopment Total Properties Base Rent Operating Redevelopment Seattle 1201/1208 Eastlake Avenue Lake Union 203,369 – – 203,369 2 $ 8,748 100.0 % 100.0 % 1551 Eastlake Avenue Lake Union 74,914 – 42,569 117,483 1 2,309 100.0 63.8 1600 Fairview Avenue Lake Union 27,991 – – 27,991 1 1,519 100.0 100.0 1616 Eastlake Avenue Lake Union 101,714 – 66,776 168,490 1 3,218 74.8 45.1 199 East Blaine Street Lake Union 115,084 – – 115,084 1 6,169 100.0 100.0 219 Terry Avenue Lake Union 30,845 – – 30,845 1 1,422 93.4 93.4 3000/3018 Western Avenue Elliott Bay 47,746 – – 47,746 1 1,795 100.0 100.0 410 West Harrison Street & 410 Elliott Avenue West Elliott Bay 35,175 – – 35,175 2 821 67.4 67.4 Seattle 636,838 – 109,345 746,183 10 $ 26,001 93.9 % 80.1 % Research Triangle Park 100 Capitola Drive Research Triangle Park 65,965 – – 65,965 1 $ 1,062 100.0 % 100.0 % 108/110/112/114 Alexander Road Research Triangle Park 158,417 – – 158,417 1 4,996 100.0 100.0 2525 East NC Highway 54 Research Triangle Park 81,580 – – 81,580 1 1,673 100.0 100.0 5 Triangle Drive Research Triangle Park 32,120 – – 32,120 1 824 100.0 100.0 601 Keystone Park Drive Research Triangle Park 77,395 – – 77,395 1 1,306 100.0 100.0 6101 Quadrangle Drive Research Triangle Park 30,122 – – 30,122 1 445 79.1 79.1 7 Triangle Drive Research Triangle Park 96,626 – – 96,626 1 3,157 100.0 100.0 7010/7020/7030 Kit Creek Road Research Triangle Park 133,654 – – 133,654 3 1,932 77.0 77.0 800/801 Capitola Drive Research Triangle Park 120,905 – – 120,905 2 2,121 95.9 95.9 6 Davis Drive Research Triangle Park 100,000 – – 100,000 1 1,062 100.0 100.0 555 Heritage Drive Palm Beach 45,023 – – 45,023 1 808 100.0 100.0 Research Triangle Park 941,807 – – 941,807 14 $ 19,386 95.5 % 95.5 % Canada Canada 46,032 – – 46,032 1 $ 1,879 100.0 % 100.0 % Canada 66,000 – – 66,000 1 1,213 100.0 100.0 Canada 132,790 – – 132,790 1 3,102 95.6 95.6 Canada 68,000 – – 68,000 1 3,174 100.0 100.0 Canada (1) 783,255 – – 783,255 1 N/A N/A N/A Total Canada 1,096,077 – – 1,096,077 5 $ 9,368 98.1 % 98.1 % Other market properties 61,002 – – 61,002 2 $ 590 51.4 % 51.4 % North America 13,862,176 947,798 431,624 15,241,598 165 $ 437,263 94.6 % 91.6 % Asia 587,662 618,976 115,468 1,322,106 9 $ 4,188 66.2 % 55.3 % Continuing operations 14,449,838 1,566,774 547,092 16,563,704 174 $ 441,451 93.4 % 89.8 % Properties “held for sale” 504,130 – – 504,130 4 Total 14,953,968 1,566,774 547,092 17,067,834 178 (1) Represents land and improvements subject to a ground lease with a client tenant. See Schedule III – Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Rental Properties and Accumulated Depreciation of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. in “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules” for additional information on our properties. 39 Table of Contents Value-added projects A key component of our business model is our value-added development and redevelopment programs. These programs are focused on providing high-quality, generic, and reusable life science laboratory space to meet the real estate requirements of a wide range of clients in the life science industry. Upon completion, each value-added project is expected to generate significant revenues and cash flows. Our development and redevelopment projects are generally in locations that are highly desirable to life science entities, which we believe results in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, and higher rental income and returns. Development projects generally consist of the ground-up development of generic and reusable life science laboratory facilities. Redevelopment projects generally consist of the permanent change in use of office, warehouse, and shell space into generic life science laboratory space. We anticipate execution of new active development projects for aboveground vertical construction of new life science laboratory space generally with significant pre-leasing. Preconstruction activities include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other activities prior to commencement of vertical construction of aboveground shell and core improvements. Our objective also includes the advancement of preconstruction efforts to reduce the time required to deliver projects to prospective client tenants. These critical activities add significant value for future ground-up development and are required for the vertical construction of buildings. Ultimately, these projects will provide high-quality facilities for the life science industry and are expected to generate significant revenue and cash flows for the Company. Development and redevelopment projects in Asia represent development opportunities focusing on life science laboratory space for our current client tenants and other life science entities. We have approximately 425,000 square feet undergoing construction in India. Additionally, we have a two-building development project located in North China aggregating approximately 309,000 rentable square feet undergoing construction. 40 Table of Contents Our investments in real estate, net, consisted of the following as of December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands): December 31, 2012 Book Value Square Feet Land (related to rental properties) $ 522,664 Buildings and building improvements 4,933,314 Other improvements 189,793 Rental properties 5,645,771 14,953,968 Less: accumulated depreciation (875,035 ) Rental properties, net 4,770,736 Construction in progress (“CIP”)/current value-added projects: Active development in North America 431,578 947,798 Active redevelopment in North America 199,744 431,624 Generic infrastructure/building improvement projects in North America 80,599 Active development and redevelopment in Asia 101,602 734,444 813,523 2,113,866 Subtotal 5,584,259 17,067,834 Land/future value-added projects: Land held for future development in North America 296,039 4,659,000 Land undergoing preconstruction activities (additional CIP) in North America 433,310 2,934,000 Land held for future development/land undergoing preconstruction activities (additional CIP) in Asia 82,314 6,829,000 811,663 14,422,000 Investment in unconsolidated real estate entity 28,656 413,536 Investments in real estate, net $ 6,424,578 31,903,370 As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had various projects classified as construction in progress, including development and redevelopment projects, projects in Asia, and land undergoing preconstruction activities. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had 947,798 and 818,020 rentable square feet, respectively, undergoing active ground-up development in North America consisting of vertical aboveground construction of life science properties. Additionally, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had 431,624 and 919,857 rentable square feet, respectively, undergoing active redevelopment in North America. We are required to capitalize project costs, indirect project costs, including interest, during the period an asset is undergoing activities to prepare it for its intended use. Capitalization of interest ceases after a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. In addition, should construction activity cease, interest and other indirect project costs would be expensed as incurred. 41 Table of Contents The following table provides details on our development and redevelopment projects located in North America as of December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands, except per rentable square foot amounts): Project RSF (1) Leased Status RSF (1) Market – Submarket/ In % Leased/ Property Service CIP Total Leased Negotiating Marketing Total Negotiating Client Tenants Development projects in North America Greater Boston – Cambridge 225 Binney Street – 305,212 305,212 305,212 – – 305,212 100 % Biogen Idec Inc. San Francisco Bay Area – Mission Bay 499 Illinois Street – 222,780 222,780 – – 222,780 222,780 – N/A Greater NYC – Manhattan 430 East 29th Street – 419,806 419,806 60,816 167,244 (2) 191,746 419,806 54 % Roche Development projects in North America – 947,798 947,798 366,028 167,244 414,526 947,798 56 % Redevelopment projects in North America Greater Boston – Cambridge 400 Technology Square 140,532 71,592 212,124 169,939 – 42,185 212,124 80 % Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard; Epizyme, Inc.; Warp Drive Bio, LLC; Aramco Services Company, Inc. San Diego – University Town Center 4757 Nexus Center Drive – 68,423 68,423 68,423 – – 68,423 100 % Genomatica, Inc. Seattle – Lake Union – 1551 Eastlake Avenue 74,914 42,569 117,483 74,914 – 42,569 117,483 64 % Puget Sound Blood Center and Program 1616 Eastlake Avenue – 66,776 66,776 40,706 – 26,070 66,776 61 % Infectious Disease Research Institute Suburban and other redevelopment projects 45,287 182,264 227,551 146,613 59,532 21,406 227,551 91 % Redevelopment projects in North America 260,733 431,624 692,357 500,595 59,532 132,230 692,357 81 % Total development and redevelopment projects in North America 260,733 1,379,422 1,640,155 866,623 226,776 546,756 1,640,155 67 % Investment (1) Initial Stabilized Initial Market – Submarket/ December 31, 2012 To Complete Total at Per Yield (1) (3) Project Start Occupancy Stabilization Property In Service CIP 2013 Thereafter Completion (3) RSF Cash GAAP Date (1) Date (1) Date (1) Development projects in North America Greater Boston – Cambridge 225 Binney Street $ – $ 104,422 $ 75,851 $ – $ 180,273 $ 591 7.5% 8.1% 4Q11 4Q13 4Q13 San Francisco Bay Area – Mission Bay 499 Illinois Street $ – $ 113,196 $ 17,119 $ 22,894 $ 153,209 $ 688 6.4% 7.2% 2Q11 2Q14 1Q15 Greater NYC – Manhattan 430 East 29th Street $ – $ 213,960 $ 134,057 $ 115,228 $ 463,245 $ 1,103 6.6% 6.5% 4Q12 4Q13 2016 Development projects in North America $ – $ 431,578 $ 227,027 $ 138,122 $ 796,727 $ 841 Redevelopment projects in North America Greater Boston – Cambridge 400 Technology Square $ 85,732 $ 43,966 $ 14,990 $ – $ 144,688 $ 682 8.1% 8.9% 4Q11 4Q12 4Q13 San Diego – University Town Center 4757 Nexus Center Drive $ – $ 3,966 $ 24,167 $ 6,696 $ 34,829 $ 509 7.6% 7.8% 4Q12 4Q13 4Q13 (5) Seattle – Lake Union 1551 Eastlake Avenue $ 41,787 $ 17,520 $ 4,703 $ – $ 64,010 $ 545 6.7% 6.7% 4Q11 4Q11 4Q13 1616 Eastlake Avenue $ – $ 29,033 $ 4,115 $ 4,668 $ 37,816 $ 566 8.4% 8.6% 4Q12 2Q13 2014 Suburban and other redevelopment projects $ 42,320 $ 105,259 $ 37,391 $ – $ 184,970 $ 813 Redevelopment projects in North America $ 169,839 $ 199,744 $ 85,366 $ 11,364 $ 466,313 $ 674 Total development and redevelopment projects in North America $ 169,839 $ 631,322 $ 312,393 $ 149,486 $ 1,263,040 $ 770 Refer to the following page for all footnotes to the table above 42 Table of Contents Development project commencements in the first quarter of 2013 in North America (dollars in thousands, except per rentable square foot amounts) Project RSF (1) Leased Status RSF (1) Market – Submarket/ In % Leased/ Property Service CIP Total Leased Negotiating Marketing Total Negotiating Client Tenants Greater Boston – Cambridge 75/125 Binney Street – 386,275 (5) 386,275 244,123 – 142,152 (6) 386,275 63% (6) ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Investment Initial Stabilized Initial Market – Submarket/ December 31, 2012 To Complete Total at Per Yield (1) (3) Project Start Occupancy Stabilization Property In Service CIP (4) 2013 Thereafter Subtotal Completion (3) RSF Cash GAAP Date (1) Date (1) Date (1) Greater Boston – Cambridge 75/125 Binney Street $ – $ 87,452 $ 101,087 (7) $ 162,900 $ 263,987 $ 351,439 $ 910 8.0% 8.2% 1Q13 1Q15 2016 The following table presents the current assumptions included in our guidance for funding of the cost to complete the 75/125 Binney Street project: Cost to Complete (7) 2013 Thereafter Total ARE investment $ 40,000 - 50,000 $ – $ 40,000 - 50,000 Binney JV partner capital contribution 20,000 - 25,000 – 20,000 - 25,000 Secured construction loan 30,000 - 40,000 160,000 - 165,000 190,000 - 205,000 $ 90,000 - 115,000 $ 160,000 - 165,000 $ 250,000 - 280,000 (1) All project information, including rentable square feet; investment; Initial Stabilized Yields; and project start, occupancy and stabilization dates, relates to the discrete portion of each property undergoing active development or redevelopment. A redevelopment project does not necessarily represent the entire property or the entire vacant portion of a property. For example, the redevelopment project at 1616 Eastlake Avenue represents the conversion of two floors from office to laboratory/office aggregating 66,776 rentable square feet. The remaining rentable square feet of 101,714 at this property not undergoing active redevelopment was 74.8% occupied at December 31, 2012, and is included in our operating statistics. (2) Represents rentable square feet subject to letters of intent. (3) As of December 31, 2012, 96% of our leases contained annual rent escalations that were either fixed or based on a consumer price index or another index. Our Initial Stabilized Yield on a cash basis reflects cash rents at date of stabilization and does not reflect contractual rent escalations beyond the stabilization date. We expect, on average, our contractual cash rents related to our value-added projects to increase over time. Our estimates for initial cash and GAAP yields, and total costs at completion, represent our initial estimates at the commencement of the project. We expect to update this information upon completion of the project, or sooner if there are significant changes to the expected project yields or costs. (4) We expect to deliver 54,102 rentable square feet, or 79% of the total project, to Genomatica, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2013. Genomatica, Inc. is contractually required to lease the remaining 14,411 rentable square feet no later than 18 to 24 months following the delivery of the initial 54,102 rentable square foot space. (5) As of December 31, 2012, this project was classified in land undergoing preconstruction activities (additional CIP) in North America. This project will be transferred into active development upon commencement of vertical construction during the three months ended March 31, 2013. (6) ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has potential additional expansion opportunities through June 2014. (7) Our guidance has assumed transfer of 50% of our ownership interest in the 75/125 Binney Street project to be accounted for as an in-substance partial sale of an interest in a land parcel, with the resulting entity presented as an unconsolidated joint venture (the “Binney JV”) in our financial statements. This sale of a land parcel is included in our total projected asset sales for 2013. The total remaining cost to complete for the 75/125 Binney Street project is expected to aggregate approximately $264 million through 2016, of which approximately $101 million is expected to be invested in 2013. The projected sources of funding for the approximately $264 million cost to complete for this project include a secured construction loan in the range from $190 million to $205 million, Binney JV partner capital contribution in the range from $75 million to $80 million ($20 million to $25 million to be used towards construction) and our investment in the project in the range from $40 million to $50 million. Our guidance for 2013 development, redevelopment, and construction spending in the range from $545 to $595 million, shown in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources and Uses of Capital” section, includes our estimated investment in the project in the range from $40 million to $50 million in the Binney JV. 43 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the components of the square footage of our future value-added projects in North America: December 31, 2012 Market Land Undergoing Preconstruction Activities (additional CIP) Land Held for Future Development Total Land (1) Future Redevelopment (2) Greater Boston 1,689,000 (3) 155,000 1,844,000 119,000 San Francisco Bay Area – Mission Bay – 290,000 290,000 – San Francisco Bay Area – South San Francisco 107,000 (4) 911,000 1,018,000 40,000 San Diego 801,000 (5) 74,000 875,000 264,000 Greater NYC – (6) – – – Suburban Washington, D.C. 231,000 (7) 1,043,000 1,274,000 501,000 Seattle 106,000 (8) 959,000 1,065,000 15,000 Other markets – 1,085,000 1,085,000 105,000 Canada – 142,000 142,000 – Total future value-added projects in North America 2,934,000 4,659,000 7,593,000 1,044,000 (1) In addition to assets included in our gross investment in real estate, we hold options/rights for parcels supporting the future ground-up development of approximately 420,000 rentable square feet in Alexandria Center™ for Life Science – New York City related to an option under our ground lease. Additionally, amounts are updated as necessary to reflect refinements of the design of each building. (2) Our asset base also includes non-laboratory space (office, warehouse, and industrial space) identified for future conversion into life science laboratory space through redevelopment. These spaces are classified in investments in real estate, net, in the consolidated balance sheets. (3) Represents preconstruction related to four future ground-up development projects aggregating 1.6 million rentable square feet related to The Alexandria Center™ at Kendall Square and one future ground-up development project aggregating 100,000 rentable square feet related to the Alexandria Technology Square® – Cambridge. (4) Represents preconstruction related to a future development site aggregating 107,000 rentable square feet in the South San Francisco submarket. (5) Represents preconstruction related to a future development site for 205,000 rentable square feet in Torrey Pines. This site also contains a parking structure and other improvements. Additionally, this also includes three future development sites aggregating 596,000 rentable square feet in the University Town Center submarket. (6) In November 2012, we commenced the ground-up development of a building with 419,806 rentable square feet at 430 East 29th Street, the West Tower of the Alexandria Center™ for Life Science – New York City. The cost previously classified as land undergoing preconstruction activities included costs related to steel, curtain wall, foundation, and underground parking garage. (7) Represents a future development project containing 231,000 rentable square feet at 9800 Medical Center Drive in the Rockville submarket. (8) Represents preconstruction related to a future ground-up development project for 106,000 rentable square feet in the Lake Union submarket. 44 Table of Contents The following table provides certain information about our operating properties in Asia as of December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands): Property listing – Asia Occupancy Percentage Rentable Square Feet Number of Annualized Operating and Country Operating Development Redevelopment Total Properties Base Rent Operating Redevelopment China China 299,484 – – 299,484 1 $ 443 (1) 46.7 % 46.7 % China – 309,476 – 309,476 1 – N/A N/A Total China 299,484 309,476 – 608,960 2 $ 443 46.7 % 46.7 % India India 33,698 – – 33,698 1 $ 219 41.7 % 41.7 % India 143,260 – – 143,260 1 2,295 86.5 86.5 India – 134,500 – 134,500 1 – N/A N/A India – 175,000 – 175,000 1 – N/A N/A India 25,020 – 70,808 95,828 1 305 100.0 26.1 India – – 44,660 44,660 1 – N/A – India 86,200 – – 86,200 1 926 100.0 100.0 Total India 288,178 309,500 115,468 713,146 7 $ 3,745 86.5 % 61.7 % Total Asia 587,662 618,976 115,468 1,322,106 9 $ 4,188 66.2 % 55.3 % (1) Represents annualized base rent for non-laboratory use. As of December 31, 2012, our rental properties, net, in Asia, consisted of nine operating properties aggregating approximately 587,662 square feet, with occupancy of 66.2%. Annualized base rent of our operating properties in Asia was approximately $4.2 million as of December 31, 2012. Our primary sources of revenues are rental income and tenant recoveries from leases of our properties. We also had construction projects in India and China aggregating approximately 734,444 and 817,000 rentable square feet as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our investments in real estate, net, in Asia, consisted of the following as of December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands): December 31, 2012 Book Value Square Feet Rental properties, net, in China $ 21,456 299,484 Rental properties, net, in India 32,391 288,178 CIP/current value-added projects: Active development in China 57,305 309,476 Active development in India 30,008 309,500 Active redevelopment projects in India 14,289 115,468 101,602 734,444 Land held for future development/land undergoing preconstruction activities (additional CIP) - India 82,314 6,829,000 Total investments in real estate, net, in Asia $ 237,763 8,151,106 The following table provides details on our development and redevelopment projects in Asia as of December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands): Project RSF Leased Status RSF Investment In Leased/ December 31, 2012 To Complete Total at Description Service CIP Total Leased Negotiating Marketing Total Negotiating % In Service CIP 2013 Thereafter Completion (1) China development project – 309,476 309,476 – – 309,476 309,476 – % $ – $ 57,305 $ 4,530 $ 20,465 $ 82,300 India development projects – 309,500 309,500 175,000 – 134,500 309,500 57 % – 30,008 17,498 4,279 51,785 India redevelopment projects 25,020 115,468 140,488 38,635 6,400 95,453 140,488 32 % 2,673 14,289 4,614 1,133 22,709 Total active development and redevelopment in Asia 25,020 734,444 759,464 $ 2,673 $ 101,602 $ 26,642 $ 25,877 $ 156,794 (1) Our estimates for total costs at completion represent our initial estimates at the commencement of the project. We expect to update this information upon completion of the project, or sooner if there are significant changes to the expected project costs. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS To our knowledge, no legal proceedings are pending against us, other than routine actions and administrative proceedings, substantially all of which are expected to be covered by liability insurance and which, in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 46 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “ARE.” On February 22, 2013, the last reported sales price per share of our common stock was $72.12, and there were approximately 280 holders of record of our common stock (excluding beneficial owners whose shares are held in the name of Cede & Co.). The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low trading prices per share of our common stock as reported on the NYSE and the distributions declared by us with respect to our common stock for each such period (distributions were paid in the quarter following the quarter in which the distribution was declared): Period High Low Per Share Distribution 2012 Fourth Quarter $74.59 $64.09 $0.56 Third Quarter $77.10 $70.97 $0.53 Second Quarter $76.50 $67.40 $0.51 First Quarter $74.45 $66.90 $0.49 2011 Fourth Quarter $71.07 $56.10 $0.49 Third Quarter $85.33 $59.33 $0.47 Second Quarter $83.08 $75.09 $0.45 First Quarter $80.72 $72.99 $0.45 Future distributions on our common stock will be determined by and at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including actual cash available for distribution, our financial condition and capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, restrictions under Maryland law, and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of our taxable income for the current taxable year, determined without regard to deductions for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to make distributions in excess of cash flow available for distributions to meet these distribution requirements. In such a case, we may borrow funds or may raise funds through the issuance of additional debt or equity capital. No dividends can be paid on our common stock unless we have paid full cumulative dividends on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and our Series E Preferred Stock. From the date of issuance of our preferred stock through December 31, 2012, we have paid full cumulative dividends on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and Series E Preferred Stock. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will make any future distributions. The income tax treatment of distributions on our common stock, Series C Preferred Stock, Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, and Series E Preferred Stock for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 was as follows: Common Stock Series C Preferred Stock Series D Convertible Preferred Stock Series E Preferred Stock Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 Ordinary income 85.0% 95.7% 77.2% 89.1% 98.6% 100.0% 89.1% 98.6% 100.0% 89.1% Return of capital 4.6 3.0 22.8 – – – – – – – Capital gains 10.4 1.3 – 10.9 1.4 – 10.9 1.4 – 10.9 Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% See “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” for information on securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. See “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” Certain amounts for the years prior to 2012 presented in the table below have been reclassified to conform to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012. Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Operating Data Revenues Rental $ 432,452 $ 414,164 $ 350,079 $ 349,616 $ 325,902 Tenant recoveries 135,186 128,299 105,423 94,464 92,064 Other income 18,435 5,762 5,119 11,744 11,148 Total revenues 586,073 548,225 460,621 455,824 429,114 Expenses Rental operations 174,523 159,567 123,309 112,639 104,040 General and administrative 47,795 41,127 34,345 36,275 34,771 Interest 69,184 63,378 69,509 82,111 85,118 Depreciation and amortization 188,850 153,087 121,207 113,042 102,167 Impairment on investments – – – – 13,251 Impairment of land parcel 2,050 – – – – Loss (gain) on early extinguishment of debt 2,225 6,485 45,168 (11,254 ) – Total expenses 484,627 423,644 393,538 332,813 339,347 Income from continuing operations 101,446 124,581 67,083 123,011 89,767 Income from discontinued operations, net 2,218 10,766 12,497 18,637 30,330 Gain on sales of land parcels 1,864 46 59,442 – – Net income 105,528 135,393 139,022 141,648 120,097 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 3,402 3,975 3,729 7,047 3,799 Dividends on preferred stock 27,328 28,357 28,357 28,357 24,225 Preferred stock redemption charge 5,978 – – – – Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock awards 1,190 1,088 995 1,270 1,327 Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 67,630 $ 101,973 $ 105,941 $ 104,974 $ 90,746 Earnings per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – basic Continuing operations $ 1.05 $ 1.55 $ 1.93 $ 2.24 $ 1.91 Discontinued operations, net 0.04 0.18 0.26 0.48 0.96 Earnings per share – basic $ 1.09 $ 1.73 $ 2.19 $ 2.72 $ 2.87 Earnings per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted Continuing operations $ 1.05 $ 1.55 $ 1.93 $ 2.24 $ 1.91 Discontinued operations, net 0.04 0.18 0.26 0.48 0.95 Earnings per share – diluted $ 1.09 $ 1.73 $ 2.19 $ 2.72 $ 2.86 Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding Basic 62,159,913 59,066,812 48,375,474 38,586,909 31,653,829 Diluted 62,160,244 59,077,610 48,405,040 38,600,069 31,765,055 Cash dividends declared per share of common stock $ 2.09 $ 1.86 $ 1.50 $ 1.85 $ 3.18 48 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per leased square foot amounts) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Balance Sheet Data (at year end): Rental properties, net $ 4,770,736 $ 4,370,224 $ 3,930,762 $ 3,383,308 $ 3,215,723 Land held for future development $ 378,353 $ 341,678 $ 431,838 $ 255,025 $ 109,478 Construction in progress $ 1,246,833 $ 1,254,196 $ 1,045,536 $ 1,400,795 $ 1,398,895 Investment in unconsolidated real estate entity $ 28,656 $ 42,342 $ 36,678 $ – $ – Total assets $ 7,150,116 $ 6,574,129 $ 5,905,861 $ 5,457,227 $ 5,132,077 Total debt $ 3,181,949 $ 2,779,264 $ 2,584,162 $ 2,746,946 $ 2,938,108 Total liabilities $ 3,647,058 $ 3,141,236 $ 2,919,533 $ 3,051,148 $ 3,357,014 Redeemable noncontrolling interests $ 14,564 $ 16,034 $ 15,920 $ 41,441 $ 33,963 Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders’ equity $ 3,441,851 $ 3,374,301 $ 2,928,825 $ 2,323,408 $ 1,700,010 Noncontrolling interests $ 46,643 $ 42,558 $ 41,583 $ 41,230 $ 41,090 Total equity $ 3,488,494 $ 3,416,859 $ 2,970,408 $ 2,364,638 $ 1,741,100 Other Data: Cash provided by operating activities $ 305,533 $ 246,960 $ 227,006 $ 206,954 $ 257,200 Cash used in investing activities $ (558,100 ) $ (733,579 ) $ (444,745 ) $ (406,566 ) $ (494,933 ) Cash provided by financing activities $ 314,860 $ 479,156 $ 237,912 $ 198,355 $ 300,864 Number of properties at year end 178 173 167 163 166 Rentable square feet of properties at year end 17,067,834 15,321,870 13,677,035 12,744,886 12,646,662 Occupancy of operating and redevelopment properties at year end 90% 89% 89% 89% 90% Occupancy of operating properties at year end 93% 95% 94% 94% 95% Annualized base rent per leased rentable square foot $ 34.59 $ 34.39 $ 33.95 $ 30.81 $ 31.31 Year Ended December 31, (In thousands) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Reconciliation of net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders to FFO attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted: Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 67,630 $ 101,973 $ 105,941 $ 104,974 $ 90,746 Depreciation and amortization (1) 192,005 158,026 126,640 118,508 108,743 Gain on sale of real estate (1,564 ) – – (2,627 ) (20,401 ) Impairment of real estate 11,400 994 – – 4,650 Gain on sales of land parcels (1,864 ) (46 ) (59,466 ) – – Amount attributable to noncontrolling interests/unvested stock awards: Net income 4,592 5,063 4,724 8,317 5,126 FFO (4,561 ) (6,402 ) (5,834 ) (6,537 ) (6,704 ) FFO attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders (2) 267,638 259,608 172,005 222,635 182,160 Effect of dilutive securities and assumed conversion: Assumed conversion of 8.00% Unsecured Senior Convertible Notes 21 21 7,781 11,943 – Effect of dilutive securities and assumed conversion attributable to unvested restricted stock awards – – (22 ) 118 9 FFO attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted $ 267,659 $ 259,629 $ 179,764 $ 234,696 $ 182,169 Realized gain on equity investment primarily related to one non-tenant life science entity (5,811 ) – – – – Impairment of land parcel 2,050 – – – – Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,225 6,485 45,168 (11,254 ) – Preferred stock redemption charge 5,978 – – – – Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (39 ) (69 ) (394 ) 62 (137 ) FFO attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted, as adjusted $ 272,062 $ 266,045 $ 224,538 $ 223,504 $ 182,032 (1) Includes depreciation and amortization classified in discontinued operations related to assets “held for sale” (for the periods prior to when such assets were designated as “held for sale”). (2) See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations – Non-GAAP Measures – FFO and FFO, As Adjusted.” 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties regarding events, conditions, and financial trends that may affect our future plans of operation, business strategy, results of operations, and financial position. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those included within or contemplated by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those described under “Item 1. Business” in this annual report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any responsibility to update any of these factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this or any other document, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Overview We are a Maryland corporation formed in October 1994 that has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We are the largest owner, preeminent REIT, and leading life science real estate company focused principally on science-driven cluster development through the ownership, operation, management, selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment of properties containing life science laboratory space. We are the leading provider of high-quality environmentally sustainable real estate, technical infrastructure, and services to the broad and diverse life science industry. Client tenants include leading multinational pharmaceutical companies, academic and medical institutions, public and private biotechnology entities, U.S. government research agencies, medical device companies, industrial biotech companies, venture capital firms, and life science product and service companies. Our primary business objective is to maximize stakeholder value by providing our debt and equity stakeholders with the greatest possible total return based on a multifaceted platform of internal and external growth. Our operating platform is based on the principle of “clustering,” with assets and operations located adjacent to life science entities, and in close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, knowledge, institutions, and related businesses, driving growth and technological advances within each cluster. Our average occupancy rate of operating properties as of December 31 of each year from 2000 to 2012 was approximately 95.0%. Our average occupancy rate of operating and redevelopment properties as of December 31 of each year from 2000 to 2012 was approximately 88.8%. Investment-grade client tenants represented 47% of our total annualized base rent as of December 31, 2012. Results Core operations The key elements to our strategy include our consistent focus on high-quality assets and operations in the top life science cluster locations with our properties located adjacent to life science entities, driving growth and technological advances within each cluster. These adjacency locations are characterized by high barriers to entry for new landlords, high barriers to exit for client tenants, limited supply of available space, and represent highly desirable locations for tenancy by life science entities because of the close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, knowledge, institutions, and related businesses. Our strategy also includes drawing upon our deep and broad life science and real estate relationships in order to attract new and leading life science client tenants and value-added real estate. 50 Table of Contents The following table presents information regarding our asset base and value-added projects as of December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: December 31, Rentable square feet 2012 2011 2010 Rentable square feet of operating properties 14,953,968 13,583,993 12,445,754 Development properties 1,566,774 818,020 475,818 Redevelopment properties 547,092 919,857 755,463 Rentable square feet of total properties 17,067,834 15,321,870 13,677,035 Number of properties 178 173 167 Occupancy – operating 93.4% 94.9% 94.3% Occupancy – operating and redevelopment 89.8% 88.5% 88.9% Annualized base rent per leased rentable square foot $ 34.59 $ 34.39 $ 33.95 Leasing For the year ended December 31, 2012, we executed a total of 187 leases for approximately 3,281,000 rentable square feet at 84 different properties (excluding month-to-month leases). Of this total, approximately 1,475,000 rentable square feet related to new or renewal leases of previously leased space (renewed/re-leased space), and approximately 1,806,000 rentable square feet related to developed, redeveloped, or previously vacant space. Of the 1,806,000 rentable square feet, approximately 1,135,000 rentable square feet related to our development or redevelopment programs, and the remaining approximately 671,000 rentable square feet related to previously vacant space. Rental rates for this renewed/re-leased space were, on average, approximately 2.0% lower on a cash basis and approximately 5.2% higher on a GAAP basis than rental rates for the respective expiring leases. Additionally, we granted tenant concessions, including free rent averaging approximately 1.6 months, with respect to the 3,281,000 rentable square feet leased during the year ended December 31, 2012. Approximately 71% of the number of leases executed during the year ended December 31, 2012, did not include concessions for free rent. Weighted average lease term for the leases executed during the year ended December 31, 2012, was 7.1 years. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 94% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) were triple net leases, requiring client tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. Additionally, approximately 96% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) contained effective annual rent escalations that were either fixed or indexed based on a consumer price index or another index, and approximately 92% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) provided for the recapture of certain capital expenditures. The following chart presents development/redevelopment space leased and renewed/re-leased/previously vacant space leased: 51 Table of Contents Value-added opportunities and external growth As of December 31, 2012, we had six ground-up development projects in process aggregating approximately 1,566,774 rentable square feet. We also had 10 projects undergoing conversion into laboratory space through redevelopment aggregating approximately 547,092 rentable square feet. These projects, along with recently delivered projects, certain future projects, and contribution from same properties, are expected to contribute significant increases in rental income, net operating income, and cash flows. As of December 31, 2012, 96% of our leases contained annual rent escalations that were either fixed or based on a consumer price index or another index. Our initial stabilized yield on a cash basis reflects cash rents at date of stabilization and does not reflect contractual rent escalations beyond the stabilization date. We expect, on average, our contractual cash rents related to our value-added projects to increase over time. Initial stabilized yield is calculated as the quotient of the estimated amounts of net operating income and our investment in the property at stabilization (“Initial Stabilized Yield”). During the year ended December 31, 2012, we executed leases aggregating 699,000 and 436,000 rentable square feet, respectively, related to our development and redevelopment projects. The following table summarizes the commencement of key development and redevelopment projects (dollars in thousands, except per square foot amounts): Investment Initial Commencement Rentable Pre-Leased at Per Stabilized Yield Key Address/Market Date Square Feet % Completion RSF Cash GAAP Client Tenant Development 75/125 Binney Street, Greater Boston 1Q13 386,275 (1) 63% (1) $ 351,439 $ 910 8.0% 8.2% ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 430 East 29th Street, Greater NYC November 2012 419,806 14% (2) $ 463,245 $ 1,103 6.6% 6.5% Roche 360 Longwood Avenue, Greater Boston April 2012 414,000 37% (3) $ 350,000 (4) $ 845 8.3% 8.9% Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Inc. Redevelopment 4757 Nexus Center Drive, San Diego October 2012 68,423 100% $ 34,829 $ 509 7.6% 7.8% Genomatica, Inc. 1616 Eastlake Avenue, Seattle October 2012 66,776 61% $ 37,816 $ 566 8.4% 8.6% Infectious Disease Research Institute (1) Represents a one-building project with two towers totaling 386,275 rentable square feet. ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. leased 100% of the 216,926 rentable square feet at 125 Binney Street and 27,197 rentable square feet at 75 Binney Street, with additional potential expansion opportunities through June 30, 2014. See “Development and Redevelopment Projects in North America” table in “Item 2. Properties – Value-Added Projects” section for additional details on current assumptions included in our guidance for funding the cost to complete the development of 75/125 Binney Street. (2) We have an additional 40% of the 419,806 rentable square feet that are at the letter of intent stage. (3) Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Inc. also has an option to lease an additional two floors of approximately 99,000 rentable square feet, or an additional 24% of the total rentable square feet of our unconsolidated joint venture development project through June 2014. (4) Represents the total venture cost at completion. As of December 31, 2012, our equity investment was approximately $28.7 million related to our 27.5% ownership interest in the unconsolidated real estate entity. Our expected remaining cash commitment to the venture of approximately $16.9 million is less than the $22.3 million received in March 2012 from an in-substance partial sale of our interest in the underlying real estate. 52 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the delivery of key development and redevelopment projects during the year ended December 31, 2012 (dollars in thousands, except per square foot amounts): Portion Delivered Total Project Occupancy Investment Total Project Initial Completion Rentable as of at Per Stabilized Yield Key Address/Market Date Square Feet 12/31/2012 Completion RSF Cash GAAP Client Tenant(s) Development 259 East Grand Avenue, San Francisco Bay Area November 2012 170,618 100% $ 74,090 $ 434 8.7% (1) 8.6% (1) Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 400/450 East Jamie Court, San Francisco Bay Area October 2012 163,036 80% $ 112,106 $ 688 4.9% (2) 4.9% (2) Stem CentRx, Inc. 5200 Illumina Way, San Diego October 2012 127,373 100% $ 46,978 $ 369 7.0% 11.2% Illumina, Inc. 4755 Nexus Center Drive, San Diego September 2012 45,255 100% $ 23,084 $ 510 6.8% 7.5% Optimer Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Canada April 2012 26,426 100% $ 8,883 $ 336 7.7% 8.3% GlaxoSmithKline plc Redevelopment 400 Technology Square, Greater Boston November – December 2012 140,532 (3) 100% $ 144,688 $ 1,030 8.1% 8.9% Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard; Epizyme, Inc.; Aramco Services Company, Inc. 10300 Campus Point Drive, San Diego November 2011 – September 2012 279,138 (4) 96% $ 131,649 $ 472 7.9% 7.7% The Regents of the University of California; Celgene Corporation 3530/3550 John Hopkins Court, San Diego June 2012 98,320 100% $ 50,898 $ 518 8.9% 9.1% Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation; Verenium Corporation (1) The Initial Stabilized Yield on a cash and GAAP basis for this project was approximately 8.7% and 8.6%, respectively, or approximately 0.7% and 0.6% higher than the mid-point of our previous Initial Stabilized Yield estimates of 8.0%, on a cash and GAAP basis, respectively. (2) The Initial Stabilized Yield on a cash and GAAP basis for this project was approximately 4.9% and 4.9%, respectively, or approximately 0.7% and 0.6% higher than our previous Initial Stabilized Yield estimate of 4.2% and 4.3%, on a cash and GAAP basis, respectively. (3) In November and December 2012, we partially completed the redevelopment of 140,532 rentable square feet at 400 Technology Square, a building with 212,124 total rentable square feet. (4) Includes 189,562 rentable square feet delivered in September 2012, and 89,576 rentable square feet delivered in November 2011. Balance sheet Over the past several years, we successfully completed important steps in order to enhance our ability to access the debt capital markets on favorable terms, including (1) receiving our investment-grade ratings, (2) retiring certain debt and deleveraging our balance sheet, (3) generating significant cash flows from the completion and occupancy of key development and redevelopment projects from our non-income-producing assets, and (4) amending our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans to increase the amounts available and increase liquidity, extend the maturity dates, and decrease interest rates applicable to outstanding borrowings. We have also strived to maintain and improve the key strengths of our balance sheet and business, which include, among others, balance sheet liquidity, a diverse and creditworthy client tenant base, well-located properties proximate to leading research institutions, favorable lease terms, stable occupancy and cash flows, and demonstrated life science and real estate expertise. We expect to continue the transition of our balance sheet debt from short-term and medium-term bank debt to long-term unsecured fixed rate debt over the next several years. However, some bank debt will remain a component of our long-term capital structure, primarily consisting of an unsecured senior line of credit for liquidity and flexibility, and when appropriate unsecured senior bank term loans. The transition from unhedged variable rate bank debt to longer-term fixed rate unsecured bonds is expected to significantly increase our interest costs. The increase in interest costs in the near to medium term as we transition bank debt to unsecured bonds will be offset by the long-term benefits of longer dated debt maturities, less LIBOR-based variable interest rate risk, and access to more sources of capital. While this transition from unhedged variable rate bank debt is in process, we expect to utilize interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate risk. We expect to keep our unhedged variable rate debt at approximately 30% or less of our total debt over the long term. The transition of unhedged variable rate bank debt to longer-term fixed rate unsecured bonds is not expected to impact the “highly effective” designation of the existing interest rate swap agreements as of December 31, 2012. Our forecasts assume outstanding unhedged variable rate debt in an amount at least equal to our effective notional amount of interest rate swap agreements in effect at any point in time. Secured mortgage notes payable will remain part of our capital structure; however, we do not anticipate our secured notes payable becoming a significant percentage of total debt outstanding. We believe perpetual preferred stock should remain as a component of our long-term capital structure. 53 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012, we had four assets held for sale. We may identify additional assets for potential sale in 2013 and thereafter. We expect to invest net proceeds from asset sales into construction projects located in key “brain trust” cluster markets. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 23% of our gross real estate represented non-income-producing assets (land, preconstruction, development, redevelopment, projects in India and China, and investment in unconsolidated real estate entity). Our active development and redevelopment projects represented 12% of our gross investments in real estate, a significant amount of which is pre-leased and expected to be delivered over the next one to eight quarters. The completion and delivery of these projects will significantly reduce our non-income-producing assets as a percentage of gross investments in real estate. Over the next few years, we may also identify certain land parcels for potential sale. Our goal is to reduce non-income-producing assets as a percentage of our gross investments in real estate to 15% to 17% by December 31, 2013, and 15% or less for the subsequent periods. The chart below shows the historical trend of non-income-producing assets as a percentage of our gross investments in real estate: Balance sheet strategy and significant milestones Execution of capital strategy in 2012 During 2012, we successfully executed our capital strategy and proved that we have access to diverse sources of capital, which we believe is strategically important to our long-term capital structure. These sources of capital included 1) real estate asset dispositions, 2) secured construction project financing, 3) unsecured senior line of credit, 4) unsecured senior note payable, 5) joint venture capital, 6) preferred stock, and 7) common stock sales through our “at the market” common stock offering program. By accessing all of these capital sources combined with our significant increase in NOI from completion of many development and redevelopment projects, we were able to fund our approximately $577 million in construction activity during the year ended December 31, 2012, on a relatively leverage-neutral basis with minimal issuance of common equity. During the year ended December 31, 2012, net proceeds from issuance of common stock were $97.9 million. Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA as of December 31, 2012 was 7.3x compared to 7.1x as of December 31, 2011. See “Non-GAAP measures – Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA” for further information. Our various capital market transactions and proceeds from our assets sales for 2012 are more fully described in the “Cash Flows – Investing Activities and Financing Activities” sections. Capital strategy for 2013 Our balance sheet capital strategy in 2013 will continue to focus on funding our significant development and redevelopment projects in 2013 with leverage-neutral sources of capital and by continuing to execute our asset recycling program while reducing our net debt to adjusted EBITDA to approximately 6.5x by December 31, 2013. We expect to source capital in excess of our projected construction spending for 2013. As more fully described in our “Sources and Uses of Capital”, we estimate at the mid-point of our disclosed sources of capital that our capital recycling program will generate approximately $377 million as we execute on the sale of operating and non-income producing assets. Our projected cash flows from operating activities after payment of dividends will generate approximately $140 million of capital. Projected common stock offering proceeds under our “at the market” common stock offering program are projected to be approximately $150 million. These proceeds aggregate approximately $667 million and will fund our projected $570 million in projected construction spending. We project this excess capital, combined with projected growth in NOI from development and redevelopment projects described in our table at “Item 2. Properties – Development Projects in North America”, will improve our net debt to Adjusted EBITDA to approximately 6.5x. Milestones (in thousands) (1) Transaction Date Amount (2) Completion of asset sales March 2012 to September 2012 $ 75,080 Repayment of two secured notes payable December 2012 $ (15,513 ) Issuance of common stock under “at the market” common stock offering program (3) June 2012 to September 2012 $ 97,890 Secured construction loan with aggregate commitment of $55.0 million (4) June 2012 $ 55,000 Amendment of $1.5 billion unsecured senior line of credit (5) April 2012 $ 1,500,000 Redemption of 8.375% Series C Preferred Stock April 2012 $ (129,638 ) Issuance of 6.45% Series E Preferred Stock March 2012 $ 124,868 Sale of interest in land parcel to joint venture partner March 2012 $ 31,360 Repayment of 2012 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan February 2012 $ (250,000 ) 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable offering February 2012 $ 544,649 Repurchase of 3.70% Unsecured Senior Convertible Notes January/April 2012 $ (84,801 ) (1) Refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources and Uses of Capital” section for further discussion of the items above. (2) Net of discounts and offering costs, as applicable. (3) As of December 31, 2012, approximately $150.0 million of our common stock remained available for issuance under the “at the market” common stock offering program. (4) Outstanding balance of secured construction loan as of December 31, 2012, was approximately $16.9 million. (5) Outstanding balance of unsecured senior line of credit as of December 31, 2012, was approximately $566 million. 54 Table of Contents Investment-grade ratings and key credit metrics In July 2011, we received investment-grade ratings from two major rating agencies. Receipt of our investment-grade ratings was a significant milestone that we believe will provide long-term value to our debt and equity stakeholders. Key strengths of our balance sheet and business that highlight our investment-grade credit profile include balance sheet liquidity, a diverse and creditworthy client tenant base, well-located properties proximate to leading research institutions, favorable lease terms, stable occupancy and cash flows, and demonstrated life science and real estate expertise. This significant milestone broadens our access to another key source of debt capital and allows us to continue to pursue our long-term capital, investment, and operating strategies. The issuance of investment-grade unsecured senior notes payable has allowed us to begin the transition from bank debt financing to unsecured senior notes payable, from variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, and from short-term debt to long-term debt. While this transition of bank debt is in process, we will utilize interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate risk. We expect, over the near term while we transition from bank debt to unsecured senior notes payable, to keep our unhedged variable rate debt at less than 30% of our total debt. Year Ended December 31, Key Credit Metrics (1) 2012 2011 Net debt to adjusted EBITDA (2) 7.3x 7.1x Net debt to gross assets (excluding cash and restricted cash) (3) 38% 37% Fixed charge coverage ratio (2) 2.8x 2.7x Interest coverage ratio (2) 3.4x 3.4x Unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income (2) 71% 65% Liquidity – unsecured senior line of credit availability and unrestricted cash (3) $1.1 billion $1.2 billion Non-income-producing assets as a percentage of gross real estate (3) 23% 24% Unhedged variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt (3) 30% 21% Investment-grade client tenants as a percentage of total annualized base rent (3) 47% 45% (1) These metrics reflect certain non-GAAP financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Measures” for more information, including definitions and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. (2) Periods represent quarter annualized metrics. We believe key credit metrics for the three months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, annualized, reflect the completion of many development and redevelopment projects and are indicative of the Company’s current operating trends. (3) At the end of the period. Critical accounting policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We base these estimates, judgments, and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in estimates could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by our stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts, and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. REIT compliance We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and financial results, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We believe that our current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable us to qualify, and continue to qualify, as a REIT. However, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, then we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. If we lose our REIT status, then our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our stockholders will be significantly reduced for each of the years involved and we will no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. 55 Table of Contents Investments in real estate, net, and discontinued operations We recognize assets acquired (including the intangible value of above or below market leases, acquired in-place leases, client tenant relationships, and other intangible assets or liabilities), liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in an acquired entity at their fair value as of the acquisition date. If there is a bargain fixed rate renewal option for the period beyond the non-cancelable lease term, we evaluate factors such as the business conditions in the industry in which the lessee operates, the economic conditions in the area in which the property is located, and the ability of the lessee to sublease the property during the renewal term, in order to determine the likelihood that the lessee will renew. When we determine there is reasonable assurance that such bargain purchase option will be exercised, we consider its impact in determining the intangible value of such lease and its related amortization period. The value of tangible assets acquired is based upon our estimation of value on an “as if vacant” basis. The value of acquired in-place leases includes the estimated carrying costs during the hypothetical lease-up period and other costs that would have been incurred to execute similar leases, considering market conditions at the acquisition date of the acquired in-place lease. We assess the fair value of tangible and intangible assets based on numerous factors, including estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and capitalization rates and available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors, including the historical operating results, known trends, and market/economic conditions that may affect the property. We also recognize the fair values of assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in acquisitions of less than a 100% interest when the acquisition constitutes a change in control of the acquired entity. Acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs are expensed as incurred. The values allocated to buildings, and building improvements, land improvements, tenant improvements, and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis using the shorter of the term of the respective ground lease and up to 40 years for buildings and building improvements, an estimated life of 20 years for land improvements, the respective lease term for tenant improvements, and the estimated useful life for equipment. The values of acquired above and below market leases are amortized over the lives of the related leases and recognized as either an increase (for below market leases) or a decrease (for above market leases) to rental income. The values of acquired in-place leases are classified in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and amortized over the remaining terms of the related leases. A property is classified as “held for sale” when all of the following criteria for a plan of sale have been met: (1) management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the property; (2) the property is available for immediate sale in its present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary; (3) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required to complete the plan to sell have been initiated; (4) the sale of the property is probable and is expected to be completed within one year; (5) the property is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and (6) actions necessary to complete the plan of sale indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. When all of these criteria have been met, the property is classified as “held for sale”; and if (1) the operations and cash flows of the property have been or will be eliminated from the ongoing operations, and (2) we will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the property after the sale, then its operations, including any interest expense directly attributable to it, are classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of income; and amounts for all prior periods presented are reclassified from continuing operations to discontinued operations. Depreciation of assets ceases upon designation of a property as “held for sale.” Impairment of long-lived assets Long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, land held for future development, construction in progress, and intangibles, are individually evaluated for impairment when conditions exist that indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset to be held and used is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment indicators or triggering events for long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, land held for future development, and construction in progress, are assessed by project and include, but are not limited to, significant fluctuations in estimated net operating income, occupancy changes, significant near-term lease expirations, current and historical operating and/or cash flow losses, construction costs, estimated completion dates, rental rates, and other market factors. We assess the expected undiscounted cash flows based upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, construction costs, available market information, current and historical operating results, known trends, current market/economic conditions that may affect the property, and our assumptions about the use of the asset, including, if necessary, a probability-weighted approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration. Upon determination that an impairment has occurred, a write-down is recognized to reduce the carrying amount to its estimated fair value. If an impairment loss is not required to be recognized, the recognition of depreciation is adjusted prospectively, as necessary, to reduce the carrying amount of the real estate to its estimated disposition value over the remaining period that the real estate is expected to be held and used. We may adjust depreciation of properties that are expected to be disposed of or redeveloped prior to the end of their useful lives. 56 Table of Contents We use a “held for sale” impairment model for our properties classified as “held for sale.” The “held for sale” impairment model is different from the held and used impairment model. Under the “held for sale” impairment model, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset classified as “held for sale” exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. Because of these two different models, it is possible for a long-lived asset previously classified as held and used to require the recognition of an impairment charge upon classification as “held for sale.” Capitalization of costs We are required to capitalize project costs, including predevelopment costs, interest, property taxes, insurance, and other costs directly related and essential to the acquisition, development, redevelopment, or construction of a project. Capitalization of construction, development, and redevelopment costs is required while activities are ongoing to prepare an asset for its intended use. Fluctuations in our development, redevelopment, and construction activities could result in significant changes to total expenses and net income. For example, had we experienced a 10% reduction in construction, development, and redevelopment activities without a corresponding decrease in indirect project costs, including interest and payroll, total expenses would have increased by approximately $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Costs incurred after a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use are expensed as incurred. Should development, redevelopment, or construction activity cease, interest, property taxes, insurance, and certain other costs would no longer be eligible for capitalization and would be expensed as incurred. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance and demolition are expensed as incurred. We also capitalize costs directly related and essential to our leasing activities. These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Costs related to unsuccessful leasing opportunities are expensed as incurred. Predevelopment and acquisition costs related to abandoned projects are expensed as incurred. These costs are classified as general and administrative expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. These amounts aggregated approximately $1.1 million, $1.0 million, and $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Investments We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies and privately held entities primarily involved in the life science industry. All of our investments in actively traded public companies are considered “available for sale” and are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Fair value has been determined based upon the closing price as of each balance sheet date, with unrealized gains and losses shown as a separate component of comprehensive income. The classification of each investment is determined at the time each investment is made, and such determination is reevaluated at each balance sheet date. The cost of each investment sold is determined by the specific identification method, with net realized gains or losses classified in other income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Investments in privately held entities are generally accounted for under the cost method when our interest in the entity is so minor that we have virtually no influence over the entity’s operating and financial policies. Certain investments in privately held entities are accounted for under the equity method when our interest in the entity is not deemed so minor that we have virtually no influence over the entities’ operating and financial policies. Under the equity method of accounting, we recognize our investment initially at cost and adjust the carrying amount of the investment to recognize our share of the earnings or losses of the investee subsequent to the date of our investment. Additionally, we limit our ownership percentage in the voting stock of each individual entity to less than 10%. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our ownership percentage in the voting stock of each individual entity was less than 10%. Individual investments are evaluated for impairment when changes in conditions may indicate an impairment exists. The factors that we consider in making these assessments include, but are not limited to, market prices, market conditions, available financing, prospects for favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product initiatives, and new collaborative agreements. If there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that would have an adverse effect on our cost method investments, we do not estimate their fair value. For all of our investments, if a decline in the fair value of an investment below the carrying value is determined to be other than temporary, such investment is written down to its estimated fair value with a non-cash charge to current earnings. For a description of the methodology we use to determine the fair value of privately held entities, refer to Note 9, Fair Value of Financial Instruments. 57 Table of Contents Interest rate swap agreements We are exposed to certain risks arising from both our business operations and economic conditions. We principally manage our exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of our core business activities. We manage economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk, primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of our debt funding and the use of interest rate swap agreements. Specifically, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates. Our interest rate swap agreements are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of our known or expected cash payments principally related to our borrowings based on LIBOR. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes and currently all of our derivatives are designated as hedges. Our objectives in using interest rate swap agreements are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements in accordance with our interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed rate payments over the life of the interest rate swap agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount of interest rate swap agreements. We utilize interest rate swap agreements, including interest rate swap agreements, to hedge a portion of our exposure to variable interest rates primarily associated with our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans. We recognize our interest rate swap agreements as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, a company must designate the hedging instrument, based on the hedged exposure, as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes, and currently all of our derivatives are designated as hedges. Our interest rate swap agreements are considered cash flow hedges as they are designated and qualify as hedges of the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the earnings effect of the hedged transactions in a cash flow hedge. All of our interest rate swap agreements meet the criteria to be deemed “highly effective” in reducing our exposure to variable interest rates. We formally document all relationships between interest rate swap agreements and hedged items, including the method for evaluating effectiveness and the risk strategy. We make an assessment at the inception of each interest rate swap agreement and on an ongoing basis to determine whether these instruments are “highly effective” in offsetting changes in cash flows associated with the hedged items. The ineffective portion of each interest rate swap agreement is immediately recognized in earnings. While we intend to continue to meet the conditions for such hedge accounting, if swaps did not qualify as “highly effective,” the changes in the fair values of the derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in earnings. Interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed rate payments over the life of the interest rate swap agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount of interest rate swap agreements. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements that are designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts classified in accumulated other comprehensive income will be reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The fair value of each interest rate swap agreement is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analyses on the expected cash flows of each derivative. These analyses reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and use observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied volatilities (also referred to as “significant other observable inputs”). The fair values of our interest rate swap agreements are determined using the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future fixed cash payments and the discounted expected variable cash receipts. The variable cash receipts are based on an expectation of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate curves. The fair value calculation also includes an amount for risk of non-performance using “significant unobservable inputs” such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default, which we have determined to be insignificant to the overall fair value of our interest rate swap agreements. 58 Table of Contents Recognition of rental income and tenant recoveries Rental income from leases with scheduled rent increases, free rent, incentives, and other rent adjustments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms. We classify amounts currently recognized as income, and expected to be received in later years, as an asset in deferred rent in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Amounts received currently, but recognized as income in future years, are classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We commence recognition of rental income at the date the property is ready for its intended use and the client tenant takes possession of or controls the physical use of the property. Tenant recoveries related to reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, and other operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period during which the applicable expenses are incurred. Tenant receivables consist primarily of amounts due for contractual lease payments, reimbursements of common area maintenance expenses, property taxes, and other expenses recoverable from client tenants. Tenant receivables are expected to be collected within one year. We maintain an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of our client tenants to make payments required under the terms of the lease and for tenant recoveries due. If a client tenant fails to make contractual payments beyond any allowance, we may recognize additional bad debt expense in future periods equal to the amount of uncollectible rent and deferred rent receivables arising from the straight-lining of rent. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no allowance for estimated losses. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 94% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) were triple net leases, requiring client tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. Approximately 96% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) contained effective annual rent escalations that were either fixed or based on a consumer price index or another index. Additionally, approximately 92% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) provided for the recapture of certain capital expenditures. Impact of recently issued accounting standards In May 2011, the FASB issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) to substantially converge the guidance in GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) on fair value measurements and disclosures. The ASU changed several aspects of the fair value measurement guidance in FASB Accounting Standards Codification 820, Fair Value Measurement, including (1) the application of the concepts of highest and best use and valuation premise; (2) the introduction of an option to measure groups of offsetting assets and liabilities on a net basis; (3) the incorporation of certain premiums and discounts in fair value measurements; and (4) the measurement of the fair value of certain instruments classified in stockholders’ equity. In addition, the ASU included several new fair value disclosure requirements, such as information about valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurements and a narrative description of the fair value measurements’ sensitivity to changes in significant unobservable inputs. The ASU is effective for public companies during the interim and annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2011. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2012. The adoption of the ASU did not impact our consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued an ASU to make presentation of items within other comprehensive income (“OCI”) more prominent. Entities are required to present items of net income, items of OCI, and total comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements. There no longer exists the option to present OCI in the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. In December 2011, the FASB decided to defer the requirement that companies present reclassification adjustments for each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) in both net income and OCI on the face of the financial statements. Reclassifications out of AOCI will be either presented on the face of the financial statement in which OCI is presented or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. This deferral does not change the requirement to present items of net income, items of OCI, and total comprehensive income in either one continuous statement or two separate consecutive statements. The ASU is effective for public companies during the interim and annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2011. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2012, and have presented the consolidated statements of comprehensive income separately from the consolidated statements of income. 59 Table of Contents Results of operations As a result of changes within our total property portfolio, the financial data presented in the table in “Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2012, to the Year Ended December 31, 2011” shows significant changes in revenue and expenses from period to period. In order to supplement an evaluation of our results of operations over a given period, we analyze the operating performance for all properties that were fully operating for the entire periods presented (herein referred to as “Same Properties”) separate from properties acquired subsequent to the first period presented, properties undergoing active development and active redevelopment, and corporate entities (legal entities performing general and administrative functions), which are excluded from same property results (herein referred to as “Non-Same Properties”). Additionally, rental revenues from lease termination fees, if any, are excluded from the results of the Same Properties. The following table presents information regarding our Same Properties as of December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Number of properties 131 127 129 Rentable square feet 9,581,079 9,489,070 9,426,729 Occupancy - current period 93.9% 93.7% 94.6% Occupancy - same period prior year 93.7% 94.5% 95.1% The following table reconciles Same Properties to total properties for the year ended December 31, 2012: Number of Properties Number of Properties Number of Properties Development – active Development – deliveries since January 1, 2011 Development/Redevelopment – Asia 9 (1) 225 Binney Street 1 259 East Grand Avenue 1 409/499 Illinois Street 2 400/450 East Jamie Court 