Item 1A. Risk Factors. Readers and prospective investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report: The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company's securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business is heavily regulated and decisions by state regulatory commissions and changes in laws and regulations can significantly affect our business. California Water Service Company, New Mexico Water Service Company, Washington Water Service Company and Hawaii Water Service Company, Inc., are regulated public utilities which provide water service to our customers. The rates that the Companies charge their water customers are subject to the jurisdiction of the regulatory commission in the states in which we operate. These Commissions set water rates for each operating district independently because the systems are not interconnected. The Commissions authorize us to charge rates which they consider to be sufficient to recover our normal operating expenses, to provide funds for adding new or replacing water infrastructure, and to allow us to earn what the Commissions consider to be a fair and reasonable return on our invested capital. Our ability to meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the rates authorized by the Commissions. We periodically file rate increase applications with the Commissions. The ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly. We can provide no assurances that our rate increase requests will be granted by the Commissions. Even if approved, there is no guarantee that approval will be given in a timely manner or at a sufficient level to cover our expenses and provide a reasonable return on our investment. If the authorized rates are insufficient to cover operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements, and allow a reasonable return on invested capital, or the rate increase decisions are delayed, our earnings may be adversely affected. Our liquidity and earnings could be adversely affected by increases in electricity prices. Purchased power expense represents electricity purchased to operate the wells and pumps which are needed to supply water to our customers. Purchased power is a significant operating expense. During 2005 and 2004, purchased power expense represented 7.9% and 8.5%, respectively, of our total operating costs. These costs can and do increase unpredictably and in substantial amounts, as occurred in California during 2001 when rates we paid for electricity increased 48%. The increases are beyond our control. California regulation regarding 17 recovery of increases in electric rates changed in 2001. For over 20 years prior to 2001, the California Public Utilities Commission allowed recovery of electric rate increases under its operating rules. However, in 2001, the Commission revised its rules and deferred our recovery of the higher electric costs until the filing of a general rate case. In 2003, the California Public Utilities Commission reinstated its policy to allow utilities to adjust their rates for rate changes by the power companies. Cash flows between general rate case filings and earnings of the Company maybe adversely impacted until the Commission authorizes a rate change. The Company is allowed to track the expense differences caused by the rate change and request future recovery which is subject to an earnings test. Changes in water supply costs directly affect our earnings. The cost to obtain water for delivery to our customers varies depending on the sources of supply, wholesale suppliers' prices and the quantity of water produced to supply customer water usage. Our source of supply varies by operating district. Certain districts obtain all of their supply from wells, some districts purchase all of the supply from wholesale suppliers and other districts obtain the supply from a combination of well and purchased sources. A small portion of the supply is from surface sources and processed through Company-owned water treatment plants. On average, slightly more than half of the water delivered to customers is pumped from wells or received from a surface supply with the remainder purchased from wholesale suppliers. During 2005 and 2004, the cost of purchased water for delivery to customers represented 33.5% and 34.9%, respectively, of our total operating costs. Wholesaler water suppliers may increase their prices for water delivered to us based on factors that affect their operating costs. Purchased water rate increases are beyond our control. In California, our ability to recover increases in the cost of purchased water is subject to decisions by the regulatory commission. If we are not allowed to recover the higher costs, our cash flows and our capital resources and liquidity can be negatively impacted. Also, our profit margins may be adversely affected, unless the Commissions allow us to seek reimbursement of those costs from our customers. Environmental regulation has increased, and is expected to continue to increase, our operating costs. Our water and wastewater services are governed by various federal and state environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. These provisions establish criteria for drinking water and for discharges of water, wastewater and airborne substances. If we violate these provisions, we could be subject to substantial fines or otherwise sanctioned. Environmental laws are complex and change frequently. They have tended to become more stringent over time. As new or stricter standards are introduced, they could increase our operating costs. There can be no assurance that the Commissions would approve rate increases to enable us to recover these additional compliance costs. We are required to test our water quality for certain chemicals and potential contaminants on a regular basis. If the test results indicate that we exceed allowable limits, we may be required either to commence treatment to remove the contaminant or to develop an alternate water source. Either of these results may be costly, and there can be no assurance that the Commissions would approve rate increases to enable us to recover these additional compliance costs. All of the above factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The adequacy of our water supplies depends upon a variety of factors beyond our control. Interruption in the water supply may adversely affect our earnings. We depend on an adequate water supply to meet the present and future needs of our customers. Whether we have an adequate supply varies depending upon a variety of factors, including: rainfall, the amount of water stored in 18 reservoirs, underground water supply from which well water is pumped, changes in the amount of water used by our customers, water quality, legal limitations on water use such as rationing restrictions during a drought, and population growth. Also, the water business is seasonal. The normal water use pattern within our service territories sees the highest customer usage and highest revenue during the warmer summer months due primarily to increased usage for watering outside landscape, cooling and swimming pools. Customer usage and revenue are lower during the cool, rainy winter months. Demand also varies with rainfall levels. If summer temperatures are cooler than normal or the rainy season extends into the summer months or begins early in the fall months, any of these factors can cause a decline in customer usage and result in lower revenue. Drought conditions may affect our ability to serve our current and future customers, and may affect our customers' use of water. Restrictions imposed on the amount of water customers are allowed to use during a drought may result in decreased customer billings. Customers may use less water even after a drought has passed because of conservation patterns developed during the drought. Lower use for any reason could lead to continued lower revenue. Since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, we have heightened security at our facilities and taken added precautions for the safety of our employees and water we deliver to our customers. We have also assigned a high priority to completing work necessary to comply with new Environmental Protection Agency requirements concerning security of water facilities. These actions have increased our costs. The Company purchases its water supply from various governmental agencies and others. Water supply availability may be impacted by weather conditions, funding and other political and environmental considerations. The Company has entered into long-term agreements, which commit the Company to payments whether or not the Company purchases any water. For further information on Company commitments, see the Water Supply section (page 11). All of these factors may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition: Our business requires significant capital expenditures that are dependent on our ability to secure appropriate funding. The water utility business is capital-intensive. We invest significant dollars to add or replace property, plant and equipment. We fund these projects from cash received from operations and funds received from developers. We also borrow funds from banks under short-term bank lending arrangements. We may seek to meet our long-term capital needs by raising equity through common or preferred stock issues or issuing debt obligations. Water shortages may adversely affect us by causing us to rely on more purchased water. This could cause increases in capital expenditures needed to build pipelines to secure alternative water sources. Our rate increase applications are designed to recover our investments in utility plant. We cannot assure you that the rates the Commissions will allow us to charge will be sufficient for this purpose. Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services issue ratings on California Water Service Company's ability to repay debt obligations. The credit rating agencies could downgrade our credit rating based on reviews of our financial performance and projections or upon the occurrence of other events that could impact our business outlook. In 2002, Moody's and Standard & Poor's did lower the ratings on California Water Service Company's first mortgage bonds. In 2003, Moody's placed its rating on California Water Service Company's first mortgage bonds on review for possible downgrade. In February 2004, Moody's issued a report lowering California Water Service Company's senior secured debt from A1 to A2 and noted the rating as stable. In November 2003, Standard & Poor's issued a report keeping its rating of A+, but changed its outlook from stable to negative. Both cited concerns about the lack of timely rate relief from the California Public Utilities Commission and the projected capital expenditure requirements for water infrastructure and environmental compliance needs. Moody's also issued a report about the water industry, citing the difficulties small operators face in financing needed capital expenditures and delays in commission rulings as two main concerns. The 19 rating actions were attributed to delays in receipt of decisions by the California Public Utilities Commission for rate increase applications and ongoing capital expenditures to maintain water infrastructure and meet environmental compliance requirements. A downgrade could increase our cost of capital by causing potential investors to require a higher interest rate due to a perceived risk increase related to our ability to repay outstanding debt obligations. Lower ratings by the agencies could also restrict our ability to access equity and debt capital. During 2005, management met separately with the two credit rating agencies during their annual rating reviews. Both agencies maintain their ratings of A2 for Moody's and A+ for S&P as of the filing date of this report. There is no assurance that the rating agencies will maintain ratings which allow us to borrow under advantageous conditions and at reasonable interest rates. There is no assurance that our existing funding sources will continue to be adequate or that the cost of funds will remain at levels permitting us to remain profitable. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructuring may adversely affect us. We may seek to acquire or invest in other companies, technologies, services or products that complement our business. There is no assurance that we will succeed in finding attractive acquisition candidates or investments. These transactions may result in the issuance of equity securities that could be dilutive if the acquisition or business opportunity does not develop in accordance with our business plan. They may also result in significant write-offs and an increase in our debt. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any of these transactions could involve numerous additional risks. For example, we may experience difficulty in getting required regulatory approvals. We may also have difficulty assimilating a new business or separating old businesses. Transactions such as these may also divert management's attention from other business concerns and otherwise disrupt our business. We might see a loss of key employees from our acquisition targets and as a result the integration of the new business opportunity into our existing business might be more difficult. All of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these or any other significant risks encountered. The accuracy of the Company's judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact operating results and financial condition. The discussion under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in this report and the information referred to in that discussion is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company makes certain estimates and judgments in preparing its financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on the Company's operating results and financial condition. The Company's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 20 