ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The supermarket business is highly competitive and characterized by narrow profit margins. Results of operations therefore may be materially adversely impacted by competitive pricing and promotional programs and competitor store openings. Village competes with national and regional supermarkets, local supermarkets, warehouse club stores, supercenters, drug stores, convenience stores, dollar stores, discount merchandisers, restaurants and other local retailers in the market areas we serve. Competition with these outlets is based on price, store location, promotion, product assortment, quality and service. Some of these competitors may have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition cost and lower operating expenses than we do. GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION The Company’s stores are concentrated in New Jersey, with one store in northeastern Pennsylvania. We are vulnerable to economic downturns in New Jersey in addition to those that may affect the country as a whole. Economic conditions such as interest rates, energy costs and unemployment rates may adversely affect our sales. Further, since our store base is concentrated in densely populated metropolitan areas, opportunities for future store expansion may be limited, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. WAKEFERN RELATIONSHIP Village purchases substantially all of its merchandise from Wakefern. In addition, Wakefern provides the Company with support services in numerous areas including supplies, advertising, liability and property insurance, technology support and other store services. Further, Village receives patronage dividends and other product incentives from Wakefern. Any material change in Wakefern’s method of operation or a termination or material modification of Village’s relationship with Wakefern could have an adverse impact on the conduct of the Company’s business and could involve additional expense for Village. The failure of any Wakefern member to fulfill its obligations to Wakefern or a member’s insolvency or withdrawal from Wakefern could result in increased costs to the Company. Additionally, an adverse change in Wakefern’s results of operations could have an adverse affect on Village’s results of operations. 10 LABOR RELATIONS A significant majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including any work stoppages, could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care and pension costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. This could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreement, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. FOOD SAFETY The Company could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of the food supply chain. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, could discourage consumers from buying our products. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in a loss of consumer confidence and product liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations. MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION PLANS The Company is required to make contributions to multi-employer pension plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are funded. Benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe a number of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related items will be issues in the negotiation of our collective bargaining agreements. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. The failure of a withdrawing employer to fund these obligations can impact remaining employers. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations and the actual return on assets held in the plans, among other factors. WASHINGTON CONSTRUCTION The Company began construction of the replacement store in Washington, New Jersey, which is land leased, despite a pending appeal of the approvals received from the Township. Management believes, based on an opinion obtained from a prominent land use attorney, there is only a slim possibility of the approvals obtained being overturned and the Company’s expenditures and assets being at risk. 11 FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT We maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. Given the current instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on these deposits. In addition, in the current environment, we cannot be assured that Village’s $20 million revolving credit line will be available for borrowing, or that Village will be able to replace the credit line upon its expiration on September 16, 2009. We do not anticipate drawing on the credit line prior to its expiration, except for letters of credit to insure construction performance guarantees to municipalities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 