Item 1a. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS CONCERNING US AND OUR COMMON STOCK The most significant risks and uncertainties associated with our business are described below; however, they are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results or operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading of our common stock could decline, and an investor may lose all or part of his or her investment. OUR INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM EXPRESSED IN THEIR AUDIT REPORT RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. In their opinions on our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, our independent auditor, AJ. Robbins PC, expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern because of our recurring losses and negative working capital. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF SIGNIFICANT LOSSES AND WE MAY NEVER ACHIEVE OR SUSTAIN PROFITABILITY. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO BECOME PROFITABLE, OUR OPERATIONS WILL BE ADVERSELY EFFECTED. We have incurred annual operating losses since our inception. As a result, at December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $72,389,973 . Our gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were $27,906,065 and $6,479,419, with losses from operations of $9,379,343 and $10,916,387 and net losses of $11,225,278 and $17,302,850 respectively. As we pursue our business plan, we expect our operating expenses to increase significantly. We will need to generate increased revenues to become profitable. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will ever become or remain profitable. If our revenues fail to grow at anticipated rates or our operating expenses increase without a commensurate increase in our revenues, our financial condition will be adversely affected. Our inability to become profitable on a quarterly or annual basis would have a materially adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Also, the market price for our stock could fall. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON LONG-TERM FINANCING. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RAISE CAPITAL AS WE NEED IT, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE JEOPARDIZED Our ability to implement our business plan and grow is dependent on raising a significant amount of capital. We have sustained our operations in large part from sales of our equity. We may not be able to successfully generate revenues or raise additional funds sufficient to finance our continued operations. In the long term, failure to generate sufficient revenues or obtain financing would have a material adverse effect on our business and would jeopardize our ability to continue our operations. WE HAVE IN THE PAST AND MAY IN THE FUTURE ENGAGE IN ACQUISITIONS, WHICH WILL CAUSE US TO INCUR A VARIETY OF COSTS AND WHICH MAY NOT ACHIEVE ANTICIPATED OR DESIRED RESULTS. WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE RESULTS WE ANTICIPATE AND DESIRE FROM OUR ACQUISITION OF THE SOVEREIGN COMPANIES, From time to time we engage in discussions with third parties concerning potential acquisitions of businesses, products, technologies and other assets. Acquisitions may require us to make considerable cash outlays and can entail the need for us to issue equity securities, incur debt and contingent liabilities, incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and can result in the impairment of goodwill, which could harm our profitability. Acquisitions involve a number of additional risks, including: · difficulties in and costs associated with the assimilation of the operations, technologies, personnel and products of the acquired companies, · assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances, · risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no experience, and · potential loss of key employees. Any of these risks could harm our ability to achieve profitability of acquired operations or to realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition. On February 18, 2005 we acquired Sovereign Partners, LLC which we now own and operate as a subsidiary in the residential and planned community (real estate and communications infrastructure) development industry. In connection with the acquisition, we issued common stock and newly created Series B preferred stock. That issuance was dilutive to our shareholders. We are obligated to issue more shares of preferred stock, which is convertible to common stock on a hundred for one basis, under the terms of the acquisition agreement with Sovereign. All such issuances will be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, the preferred stock we are issuing is senior to the rights of our common stock holders upon liquidation. If we are unable to assimilate Sovereign's management and operations, or if we incur unforeseen liabilities, or if the operations of Sovereign do not continue to grow or if they diminish, we will not obtain recognizable benefits from the acquisition and our shareholders will have suffered material dilution. WE HAVE SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES TOTALING $4,420,000 DUE IN 2006, COLLATERALIZED BY ALL OUR ASSETS. WE DO NOT HAVE THE FUNDS AVAILABLE TO PAY THESE DEBENTURES IF NOT CONVERTED INTO COMMON STOCK. IF THE DEBENTURES ARE NOT PAID OR CONVERTED, THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS COULD FORECLOSE ON OUR ASSETS. During 2004, we entered into a series of private placements totaling $4,420,000 in senior secured debentures, convertible into common stock. If not converted, the debentures are due on July 1, 2006. The debentures bear interest at rates from six percent (6%) to twelve percent (12%) and are collateralized by our assets. We do not currently have the funds to pay these debentures and we cannot assure you that we will have the funds to pay them on the due dates. If the debentures are not paid or converted, the debenture holders could foreclose on our assets. In March 2005 the terms of the agreements were modified such that a maximum of 40,000,000 shares are to be issued upon conversion of the debentures. If our common share price exceeds $0.25 per share for 30 consecutive days, payment of debentures totaling $2,250,000 shall be forgiven by the debenture holders. WE HAVE A NOTE PAYABLE TO EVERGREEN VENTURE PARTNERS, LLC DUE IN 2006. WE CURRENTLY DO NOT HAVE THE FUNDS AVAILABLE TO PAY THIS NOTE WHEN DUE. In 2005 we entered into an agreement with Evergreen Venture Partners, LLC to purchase 17,000,000 unregistered shares of our common stock for a $750,000 note payable. The terms of the agreement call for payment of the note plus accrued interest in July 2006, provided however, if our common share price exceeds $0.21 per share for 30 consecutive days, payment of the note shall be forgiven. WE RELY ON LOCAL TELEPHONE COMPANIES AND OTHER COMPANIES TO PROVIDE CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. A DISRUPTION OF THESE SERVICES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OPERATIONS. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Connect Paging, Inc. d/b/a Get-A-Phone is a Texas-based communications company operating as a local exchange carrier in areas currently served by SBC and Verizon Southwest. We buy certain telecommunications from SBC and Verizon and resell these to our customers. If we were not able to buy these services or if we experienced a disruption of these services, it would adversely affect our ability to operate in these areas. WE HAVE THE ABILITY, WITHOUT SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL, TO ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK AND DESIGNATE THE RIGHTS, PREFERENCES AND PRIVILEGES THAT MAY BE SENIOR TO COMMON STOCK. In November 2004, we issued 10,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series A Stock") at $100.00 per share, for a total consideration of $1,000,000. The Series A Stock is convertible into our common stock at a conversion price ranging from $0.05 to $0.075 as calculated in accordance with the Certificate of Designation. The Series A Stock has a liquidation preference ahead of the common stock in the event of any dissolution or winding up of our Company and is entitled to any dividends that may be declared from time to time by the Board of Directors. In 2005, 1,250 Series A preferred shares were converted into 2,500,000 shares of common stock. In February 2005, we issued 35,000,000 shares of our common stock and 100,000 shares of our newly created Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in the acquisition of the Sovereign Partners LLC. The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into our common stock at a conversion rate of one hundred (100) shares of common stock for each one (1) share of Series B Preferred Stock, in accordance with the Certificate of Designation. The Series B Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference ahead of the common stock in the event of any dissolution or winding up of our Company and is entitled to any dividends that may be declared from time to time by our Board of Directors. We have a total of 100,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors may determine, without shareholder approval, the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock. Depending on the rights, preferences and privileges granted when the preferred stock is issued, it may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control without further action by the shareholders, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of the common stock and may adversely affect the market price of and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. WE CAN ISSUE COMMON STOCK WITHOUT SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL THAT MAY CAUSE DILUTION TO EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS. We have 800,000,000 authorized shares of common stock that can be issued by the Board of Directors. At December 31, 2005, we had 363,382,430 shares of common stock available for issue. Under most circumstances the Board of Directors has the right to issue these shares. If all of these shares were issued, it would substantially dilute the existing shareholders. OUR COMMON STOCK HAS EXPERIENCED SIGNIFICANT PRICE VOLATILITY IN THE PAST AND WE EXPECT IT TO EXPERIENCE HIGH VOLATILITY IN THE FUTURE. THIS HIGH VOLATILITY SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASES THE RISK OF LOSS TO PERSONS OWNING OUR COMMON STOCK. The trading price for our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, the closing bid price of our stock has fluctuated between $0.02 and $0.35 per share since January 1, 2003. The price at which our common stock trades depends upon a number of factors, including our historical and anticipated operating results and general market and economic conditions, which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may lower the market price of our common stock. Moreover, during periods of stock market price volatility, share prices of many telecommunications companies have often fluctuated in a manner not necessarily related to their operating performance. Accordingly, our common stock may be subject to greater price volatility than the stock market as a whole. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK MAY CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or otherwise by certain shareholders could have a material adverse impact on the market price for the common stock at the time. As of the date of this report, there are 153,952,899 outstanding shares of our common stock held by shareholders which are deemed "restricted securities" as defined by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Under certain circumstances, these shares may be sold without registration pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144. In general, under Rule 144, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one-year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of restricted securities which does not exceed the greater of one (1%) percent of the shares outstanding or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks preceding the notice of sale required by Rule 144. In addition, Rule 144 permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of restricted securities without any quantity limitations by a person who is not an affiliate of ours and has satisfied a two-year holding period. Any sales of shares by shareholders pursuant to Rule 144 may cause the price of our common stock to decline. SOVEREIGN PARTNERS, LLC IS ROUTINELY INVOLVED IN LITIGATION MATTERS ARISING FROM ACCIDENTS AND WARRANTY RELATED CLAIMS; ALTHOUGH WE STRIVE TO KEEP THE LITIGATION COSTS AND PAYMENTS IF ANY, TO A MINIMUM, AND WE MAINTAIN LIABILITY INSURANCE, WE CANNOT BE ASSURED THAT LITIGATION WILL NOT HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON THE OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE COMPANY TAKEN AS A WHOLE. Sovereign Partners, LLC (“Sovereign”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, performs residential and commercial construction activities directly and through sub-contractors. Such activities frequently give rise to warranty claims and personal injury claims against Sovereign and other job contractors. Although Sovereign has procedures in place to assist in the prevention of such claims, litigation arising from accidents and warranty issues are an inevitable part of the business. While Sovereign maintains insurance for such claims in reasonable amounts to protect it from losses, we cannot predict if any pending or future claims will have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, we cannot be certain that liability insurance will continue to be available to Sovereign on terms acceptable to Sovereign, if at all. Loss of Sovereign’s liability insurance could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO PENNY STOCK RULES WHICH MAY BE DETRIMENTAL TO INVESTORS. Our common stock has traded at a price substantially below $5.00 per share, subjecting trading in the stock to certain SEC rules requiring additional disclosures by broker-dealers. These rules generally apply to any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions, commonly referred to as a "penny stock." Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and institutional or wealthy investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKET, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY AGAINST ESTABLISHED COMPETITORS WITH GREATER FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND MORE DIVERSE STRATEGIC PLANS. We face competition from many communications providers with significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, longer operating histories, well-established brand names, larger customer bases and diverse strategic plans and technologies. Intense competition has led to declining prices and margins for many communications services. We expect this trend to continue as competition intensifies in the future. We expect significant competition from traditional and new communications companies, including local, long distance, cable modem, Internet, digital subscriber line, fixed and mobile wireless and satellite data service providers, some of which are described in more detail below. If these potential competitors successfully focus on our market, we may face intense competition which could harm our business. In addition, we may also face severe price competition for building access rights, which could result in higher sales and marketing expenses and lower profit margins. OUR BUSINESS IS CYCLICAL AND IS SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACTED BY CHANGES IN GENERAL AND LOCAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. Our Real Estate business is cyclical and is significantly impacted by changes in national and general economic factors outside of our control, such as short and long term interest rates, the availability of financing for homebuyers, consumer confidence (which can be substantially affected by external conditions, including international hostilities, federal mortgage financing programs, and federal income tax provisions. The cyclicality of our business is also highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions that can occur on a local or regional basis, such as changes in housing demand, population growth, employment levels and job growth, and property taxes. Weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions can harm our homebuilding business on a local or regional basis. Civil unrest can also have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business. Fluctuating lumber prices and shortages, as well as shortages or price fluctuations in other important building materials, can have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business. Similarly, labor shortages or unrest among key trades, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, can delay the delivery of our homes and increase our costs. Rebuilding efforts underway in the gulf coast region of the United States following the destruction caused by the two devastating hurricanes there in the summer of 2005 may cause or exacerbate shortages of labor and/or certain materials. The difficulties described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to diminish or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because the price of each home is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction has even begun on their homes. In addition, some of the difficulties described above could cause some homebuyers to cancel their home purchase contracts altogether. THE HOMEBUILDING INDUSTRY HAS NOT EXPERIENCED A DOWNTURN IN MANY YEARS, AND NEW HOMES MAY BE OVERVALUED. Although the homebuilding business can be cyclical, it has not experienced a downturn in many years. Some have speculated that the prices of new homes, and the stock prices of companies like ours that build new homes, are inflated and may decline if the demand for new homes weakens. A decline in the prices for new homes would have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business. If new home prices decline, interest rates increase or there is a downturn in the economy, some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable. If the prices for new homes begin to decline, interest rates increase or there is a downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy, homebuyers may have financial incentive to terminate their existing sales contracts in order to negotiate for a lower price or to explore other options. Such a result could have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business and our results of operations. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE AVAILABILITY OF IMPROVED LOTS AND UNDEVELOPED LAND THAT MEET OUR LAND INVESTMENT CRITERIA. The availability of finished and partially developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. HOME PRICES AND SALES ACTIVITY IN THE PARTICULAR MARKETS AND REGIONS IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BECAUSE OUR BUSINESS IS CONCENTRATED IN THESE MARKETS. Home prices and sales activity in some of our key markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including adverse weather or economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home prices or sales activity decline in one or more of the key markets in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely impacted. INTEREST RATE INCREASES OR CHANGES IN FEDERAL LENDING PROGRAMS COULD LOWER DEMAND FOR OUR HOMES. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes, and a significant number of these customers arrange their financing through our subsidiary Lighthouse Lending, LLC. Increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing would increase monthly mortgage costs for our potential homebuyers and could therefore reduce demand for our homes and mortgages. Increased interest rates can also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our sales contracts provide our customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event they cannot arrange for financing at interest rates that were prevailing when they signed their contracts. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financing could reduce our home sales. WE ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS REGARDING THE DEVELOPMENT OF LAND, THE HOMEBUILDING PROCESS AND PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT, WHICH CAN CAUSE US TO SUFFER DELAYS AND INCUR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH COMPLIANCE AND WHICH CAN PROHIBIT OR RESTRICT HOMEBUILDING ACTIVITY IN SOME REGIONS OR AREAS. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, other environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that regulate these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria in any of the areas in which we operate. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. These laws and regulations may cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, environmental laws may impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. The mortgage brokering operations of Lighthouse Lending, LLC are heavily regulated and subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies. There are a number of federal and state statutes and regulations which, among other things, prohibit discrimination, establish underwriting guidelines which include obtaining inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts. A finding that we materially violated any of the foregoing laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. WE BUILD HOMES IN HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKETS, WHICH COULD HURT OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. We compete in each of our markets with a number of homebuilding companies for homebuyers, land, financing, raw materials and skilled management and labor resources. Our competitors include large national homebuilders, as well as other smaller regional and local builders that can have an advantage in local markets because of long-standing relationships they may have with local labor or land sellers. We also compete with other housing alternatives, such as existing homes and rental housing. These competitive conditions can make it difficult for us to acquire desirable land which meets our land buying criteria, cause us to offer or to increase our sales incentives or price discounts, and result in reduced sales. Any of these competitive conditions can adversely impact our revenues, increase our costs and/or impede the growth of our local or regional homebuilding businesses. CHANGING MARKET CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO SELL HOMES AT EXPECTED PRICES. There is often a significant amount of time between when we initially acquire land and when we can make homes on that land available for sale. The market value of a proposed home can vary significantly during this time due to changing market conditions. In the past, we have benefited from increases in the value of homes over time, but if market conditions were to reverse, we may need to sell homes at lower prices than we anticipate. We may also need to take write-downs of our home inventories and land holdings if market values decline. BECAUSE OF THE SEASONAL NATURE OF OUR REAL ESTATE BUSINESS, OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE. We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in quarterly operating results. We typically do not commence significant construction on a home before a sales contract has been signed with a homebuyer. A significant percentage of our sales contracts are made during the spring and summer months. Construction of our homes typically requires approximately four months and weather delays that often occur during late winter and early spring may extend this period. As a result of these combined factors, we historically have experienced uneven quarterly results, with lower revenues and operating income generally during the first and second quarters of our fiscal year. OUR LEVERAGE MAY PLACE BURDENS ON OUR ABILITY TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF OUR INDEBTEDNESS, MAY RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE AND MAY PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS. The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example: it could limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our businesses could also be affected by financial, political, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds through the sale of debt and/or equity securities, the refinancing of debt or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may also affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings under our bank credit facilities bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our bank credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. The indentures governing our outstanding debt instruments and our bank credit facilities include various financial covenants and restrictions, including restrictions on debt incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us. Should we not comply with any of those restrictions or covenants, the holders of those debt instruments or the banks, as appropriate, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. Currently we are not in compliance with our certain bank loan covenants. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY IN CONTINUING TO OBTAIN THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING REQUIRED TO OPERATE AND DEVELOP OUR BUSINESS. Our construction operations require significant amounts of cash and/or available credit. It is not possible to predict the future terms or availability of additional capital. Our bank credit facilities limit our ability to borrow additional funds by placing a maximum cap on our leverage ratio. If conditions in the capital markets change significantly, it could reduce our sales and may hinder our future growth and results of operations. OUR FUTURE GROWTH MAY BE LIMITED BY CONTRACTING ECONOMIES IN THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE CURRENTLY OPERATE, AS WELL AS OUR INABILITY TO ENTER MARKETS. Our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected if the markets in which we currently operate do not continue to support the expansion of our existing business or if we are unable to identify new markets for entry. Our inability to grow organically in existing markets or to expand into new markets would limit our ability to achieve our growth objectives and would adversely impact our future operating results. REGULATION OF THE INTERNET. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet by broad segments of the population, it is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet pertaining to content of Web sites, privacy, pricing, encryption standards, consumer protection, electronic commerce, taxation, and copyright infringement and other intellectual property issues. No one is able to predict the effect, if any, that any future regulatory changes or developments may have on the demand for our Internet access or other Internet-related services. Changes in the regulatory environment relating to the Internet access industry, including the enactment of laws or promulgation of regulations that directly or indirectly affect the costs of telecommunications access or that increase the likelihood or scope of competition from national or regional telephone companies, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 