ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this filing, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. We are dependent upon technology services and any damage, interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems could adversely affect our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new clients. Our business could be interrupted and we may lose data as a result of damage to or disruption of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems from natural disasters, floods, fire, power loss, hardware or software malfunctions, penetration by computer hackers, terrorist acts, vandalism, sabotage, computer viruses, vendor performance failures or insolvency, and other causes. Our business involves the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information and any system or equipment failure we experience could adversely affect our clients’ businesses, and expose us to litigation and possible liability. In addition, as a result of any of the foregoing, our goodwill could be damaged, and we could be exposed to significant contractual liability. The precautions that we have taken to protect ourselves and minimize the impact of such events (such as our disaster recovery plans) may not be adequate, and we may be unable to recover data used in our operations. In addition, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose sales and clients. Our insurance-related loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be harmed. We maintain loss reserves to cover our liabilities for the costs of our health care and workers’ compensation programs. These reserves are not an exact calculation of our liability, but, rather, are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections of claims administration and settlement costs and expenses. In addition to current and historical claims payment patterns and relevant trends, our health benefit reserves are based primarily on an independent actuarial estimate of claims incurred, but not reported, and claims reported but not yet paid. Our workers’ compensation reserves are based primarily on an independent actuarial estimate of future claims. Variables in the reserve estimation may be affected by both internal and external factors, such as changes in claims handling procedures, fluctuations in the administrative costs associated with the program, economic inflation, interest rates, legal determinations and legislative changes. Although our reserves estimates are regularly refined as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled, because of the uncertainties of estimating loss reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate, and actual costs and expenses may exceed our reserves. If our reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur potentially material charges to our earnings. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if insurance coverage for workers’ compensation or medical benefits is not available or if we lose relationships with our key providers. As part of our full range of services, we offer medical benefits coverage and workers’ compensation insurance to our clients. We depend on a small number of key providers for the majority of our medical benefits and workers compensation coverage, including AIG, BCBSFL and Aetna. If any of our insurance providers discontinue coverage, the time and expense of providing replacement coverage could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Replacement coverage could lead to client dissatisfaction and attrition (especially since clients may terminate with either 30 or 45 days notice) due to the lack of continuity between coverage providers and the terms and conditions of their respective coverage plans. In addition, if at any time we are unable to renew our existing policies on financial terms and premium rates acceptable to us, our ability to provide such insurance and benefits to our clients would be adversely impacted, which could lead to significant client attrition, and our results of operations 17 Table of Contents could be adversely affected. Our inability to renew existing policies may jeopardize compliance with state regulatory requirements and subject us to fines and extra costs to satisfy the state requirements, or, at worst, eliminate our ability to provide services in those states. The loss of our ability to provide services, even for a short period, may negatively impact our image with our clients and lead to the termination of our service agreements. Our headquarters, many of our clients’ headquarters, and the facilities of many of the third parties on which we rely to provide us and our clients with critical services are located in an area of the United States that is susceptible to hurricane damage and other natural disasters. Our Florida facilities, including our principal executive offices and field support offices, as well as certain of our vendors and a significant number of our clients are located in an area prone to natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and other adverse weather conditions. A hurricane or other disaster could significantly disrupt our services, particularly if it results in prolonged disruptions to the Internet and telecommunications services on which we heavily rely. The precautions that we have taken to protect ourselves and minimize the impact of such events (such as our disaster recovery plans) may not be adequate, and we may lose, not be able to access, or be unable to recover data used in our operations. In addition, our regional clients could also suffer the effects of a significant natural disaster and not be able to fulfill their contractual requirements pursuant to the terms of our professional services agreement. Our business could be materially and adversely affected should our ability to provide services and products, or our ability to collect our service fees, be impacted by such an event. Our acquisition strategy subjects us to numerous risks. One important component of our growth strategy is to pursue selective acquisitions. This strategy entails numerous risks, including the following: Integration & Operational Risks. We face risks associated with integrating new organizations, including their management, personnel and clients, into our established business. An inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could cause attrition of acquired personnel and clients. An acquisition may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management while we continue to incur operating expenses to provide the services provided formerly by the acquired company. Financial Risks. We may finance an acquisition with cash, by issuing equity securities (which could be dilutive to existing shareholders) or by incurring debt (which would increase our leverage and interest expense). We cannot assure you that we will be able to access the capital markets for these transactions. Legal Risks. An acquired company may have liabilities that are difficult to assess, for which there are inadequate reserves and that may be significant. For example, employee benefit plans of an acquired company could result in liability due to the plan’s failure comply with applicable laws and regulations. Even if we pursue possible acquisition candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to close on them at attractive prices or at all. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve this component of our growth strategy. If any of these risks were to materialize, it could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, the risks summarized above could be heightened if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. We depend on the technology of third parties licensed to us, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, reduced service levels or delayed sales of our products and services. We rely on third-party vendors for software, and if their products are not available, or are inadequate, our business could be seriously harmed. For example, we process payroll for all of our client employees using Oracle’s HRMS and Payroll processing applications. Our service delivery capability incorporates and relies on Oracle software that we license directly from Oracle. If Oracle or our other software vendors change or fail to 18 Table of Contents maintain a product that we are using or do not permit use of that product by our clients or us, or if our licensing agreements are terminated or not renewed, we could be forced to delay or discontinue our services until equivalent technology can be found, licensed and installed. We could also be forced to pay significantly higher licensing fees with respect to such equivalent technology. In addition, our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party services and products, and any undetected errors in these products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions, and harm our reputation and sales. We are dependent upon key personnel, and the recruitment and retention of key employees may be difficult and expensive. We believe that the successful operation of our business is dependent upon our retention of key personnel including, particularly, our chairman and chief executive officer, Erik Vonk. In general, the employment of our key personnel, including Mr. Vonk, may be terminated by either the employee or us at any time, without cause or advance notice, subject to severance obligations under specified circumstances. If any of these individuals, particularly Mr. Vonk, were unable or unwilling to continue working for us, we could have difficulty finding a replacement, and our operations and profitability could be adversely affected, which would have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, we are not the beneficiary under any life insurance contracts covering any of our key personnel. We also relied heavily upon stock options to supplement compensation for many of our key employees, and if we continue to grant options to these employees, the treatment of options as an expense in response to new regulatory requirements may significantly increase our reported costs. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified service consultants and sales associates. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain human resource consultants (“HRCs”) and business development managers (“BDMs”) who possess the specific skills and experience necessary to identify new clients and fulfill our existing clients’ needs. Finding and retaining qualified HRCs and BDMs is difficult because of the specific skill set that we require in order for us to adequately operate in the complex human resource regulatory environment. We compete for qualified HRCs not only with other human resource service providers, but also with internal human resource departments. Our ability to attract and retain qualified HRCs and BDMs could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels, restructuring of our compensation system, or competition from our competitors. If we cannot attract and retain qualified individuals, the quality of our services may deteriorate and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate, and we may not be able to sustain our level of total revenue or our historical rate of revenue growth. Our revenue, margins and results from operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. Quarterly variations in our revenues and operating results occur as a result of a number of factors, including: • changes to our reserves for workers’ compensation, medical benefit plans, and state unemployment taxes; • new product introductions or announcements by us or our competitors; • market acceptance of new services; • pricing changes or increases; • the hiring and training of additional staff; and • general economic conditions. Due to the presence of any of these factors, we may not be able to sustain our level of total revenue or our historical rate of revenue growth on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results could fall below our 19 Table of Contents targets and the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our short-term results may be impacted due to changes in health insurance claims, state unemployment tax rates and workers’ compensation rates, which we may not be able to immediately pass through to our clients. Health insurance claims, state unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation rates are primarily determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our actual costs. Should we experience a significant increase in claims activity, we may experience a substantial increase in our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes, or workers’ compensation insurance rates. Our ability to pass such increases through to our clients may be delayed and our clients may not agree to the increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of our co-employment relationship with our clients and client employees, we may be subject to liabilities as a result of their acts or omissions. We enter into a contractual relationship with each of our clients, whereby the client transfers certain employment-related risks and liabilities to us and retains other risks and liabilities. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of this “co-employment” relationship. Consequently, we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients despite the contractual division of responsibilities between us, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although our professional services agreement provides that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual indemnification. Any such liability imposed upon us could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments of behalf of our clients, we are exposed to certain credit risks with respect to our larger clients. Under the terms of our professional services agreement, we generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with each of our client’s employee payroll obligations, including the payment of salaries, wages and associated taxes, and, at the client’s option, the responsibility for providing group health, welfare and retirement benefits to each client employee. In this “co-employment” relationship, we directly assume these obligations, and unlike other payroll processing service providers, we issue payroll checks to each client employee drawn on our own bank accounts. Our obligation to make these payments is fixed for the period of time in which a client’s employees remain co-employees of ours, even if the client fails to satisfy its contractual obligation to us to remit its payroll, taxes and associated service fees. If we are unable to collect these payments from our larger clients, we may face significant adverse impact. Our professional services agreement allows clients to terminate their relationship with us upon either 30 or 45 days notice, and as a result, we could lose a significant number of customers in a short period of time. In order to utilize our professional services, each of our clients is required to enter into our professional services agreement, which generally provides for an initial one-year term, subject to termination by our client or us at any time upon either 30 or 45 days prior written notice. Following the initial term, the contract may be renewed, terminated or continued on a month-to-month basis. As a result, a significant number of our clients may terminate their agreement with us at any time. In particular, they may decide to discontinue our services or their relationship with us due to our attempts to increase our administrative and other services fees or increase our medical or workers’ compensation insurance premiums. Clients may also be unwilling to pay for broadened service offerings if additional or increased fees accompany such changes. These termination provisions could cause us to lose a significant number of customers in a short period of time or make it difficult for us to increase our prices, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration. While we currently have offices in 13 states and client employees in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, our Florida operations accounted for approximately 61% of our total client billings in 2003, 54% in 2004 and 55% in 2005. As a result of the size of our base of client employees in Florida and anticipated continued growth from our Florida operations, our profitability over the next several years is expected to be largely dependent on economic and regulatory conditions in Florida. If the Florida economy experiences an economic downturn or its growth rate slows, our profitability and growth prospects may be adversely affected. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to duplicate in other markets the revenue growth and operating results experienced in Florida. We may be required to provide significant collateral for our obligations to our insurance providers and the amount of cash necessary to provide that collateral may increase in the future. Our workers’ compensation provider requires and our health care insurance providers may require collateralization of our insurance plans. The extent of such requirements is dependent upon factors such as our financial condition, as well as the workers’ compensation and health insurance claims experience of our clients, over which we have little control except in the decision to initially accept and retain such clients. These collateral requirements may affect our need for capital, as well as our profitability. We may not be able to raise or provide the additional capital or collateral, if needed. In addition, we may be required to post additional collateral for the benefit of our insurance providers as a result of growing our business, which amounts could be significant, and may cause a significant amount of our cash to be restricted from other uses. We operate in a complex regulatory environment and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. The human resource environment is subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, taxes, benefits administration, employment practices and data privacy. Because our clients have employees in states throughout the United States, we must perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret and may change over time, and the addition of new services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. If we are unable to continue to provide certain contractual obligations, such as the payment of employment taxes on the salaries and wages paid to client employees, due to an adverse determination regarding our regulatory status as an “employer”, our clients may be held jointly and severally liable for such payments. Violation of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute breach of our client contracts and impair our ability to do business in various jurisdictions or in accordance with established processes. In addition, many states in which we operate have enacted laws that require licensing or registration of professional employer organizations, including Florida and Texas, and additional states are considering such legislation. We may not be able to satisfy the licensing requirements or other applicable regulations of any particular state, or we may be unable to renew our licenses in the states in which we currently operate upon expiration of such licenses, which could prevent us from providing services to client employees in a certain state. The market for our services and our revenue growth depends on our ability to use the Internet as a means of delivering human resource services and this exposes us to various security risks. We rely on the Internet as a primary mechanism for delivering services to our clients and use public networks to transmit and store extremely confidential information about our clients and their employees. Our target clients may not continue to be receptive to human resource services delivered over the Internet because of concerns over transaction security, user privacy, the reliability and quality of Internet service and other reasons. A security breach could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address security breaches, and we cannot be certain that our security measures will be adequate. In addition, emerging or uncertain laws and regulations relating to Internet user privacy, property ownership, intellectual property, export of encryption technology, and libel could impair our existing Internet usage. This could decrease the 21 Table of Contents popularity or impede the expansion of the Internet and decrease demand for our services. If we become subject to the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services, our profitability and growth prospects may be adversely affected. If we are determined not to be an “employer” pursuant to applicable ERISA and IRS rules and regulations, we may be subject to additional regulations and liabilities. If it is determined that we are not the “employer” for purposes of ERISA, we could be subject to liabilities, including penalties, with respect to our cafeteria benefits plan operated under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for failure to withhold and pay taxes applicable to salary deferral contributions by our client employees. As a result of such a finding, we and our plans may not enjoy, with respect to our client employees, the preemption of state laws provided by ERISA, and we could be subject to additional varying state laws and regulation, as well as to claims based upon state common laws. We may face increased litigation risk if we are determined to be an “employer” for employment and discrimination law purposes. Our professional services agreement establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between us and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various governmental regulations with respect to issues such as the hiring and firing of employees. Because of our co-employment relationship with our clients, we may be subject to liability for violations of these or other laws despite our delineated contractual provisions, and even if we do not participate in such actions. This risk is increased with respect to clients serviced by our human resource consultants who are located on-site at our clients’ offices and who are designated service representatives of one or two clients because of their greater presence on a client’s premises and potential involvement in client employee relations. In addition, our client employees may also be deemed to be acting as our agents, subjecting us to further liability for the acts or omissions of such client employees. We may find it difficult to expand our business into additional states due to varying state regulatory requirements and the existing competitive environment. We currently operate primarily in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. Future growth of our operations depends, in part, on our ability to offer our services and benefits to prospective clients in additional states. In order to operate effectively in a new state, we must obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, adapt our procedures to that state’s regulatory requirements and adapt our service offerings to local market conditions. We are also subject to additional competition from regional and local competitors in the markets in which we expand. In the event that we expand into additional states, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the financial performance experienced in our current markets. We face direct and overlapping competition from a number of other companies. In order to acquire new clients, we must first convince potential clients that a human resource outsourcing provider is a superior option as compared to their current internal human resource solutions. For potential clients that choose to outsource these services, we then face direct competition from a number of providers that also operate on a co-employment platform, such as Administaff, Inc., as well as companies that primarily provide payroll processing services in addition to co-employment services, such as Automatic Data Processing Inc. and Paychex, Inc. We also face competition from certain information technology outsourcing firms and broad-based outsourcing and consultancy firms that provide or may seek to provide human resource outsourcing services in addition to consulting companies that perform individual projects, such as development of human resource strategy and information systems. Historically, most of these vendors have focused on discrete processes, but many are now promoting integrated process management offerings that may compete with our offerings. We expect that market experience to date and the predicted growth of the human resource outsourcing market will continue to attract and motivate more competitors. 22 Table of Contents Certain of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients and suppliers than we do, which could adversely affect our ability to attain new clients. Certain of our existing or potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients and key product and service suppliers than we do. This may enable them to develop and expand their delivery infrastructure and service offerings more quickly, and achieve greater scale and cost efficiencies; adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changing client needs; take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; establish operations in new markets more rapidly; devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services; and adopt more aggressive pricing policies and provide clients with additional benefits at lower overall costs in order to gain market share or in anticipation of future improvements in delivery costs. If our competitive advantages are not compelling or sustainable and we are not able to effectively compete with larger competitors, then we may not be able to increase or sustain profits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 