Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, prospective investors should carefully consider risk factors before investing in the Company’s securities. The Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks or by others that cannot currently be identified. Industry Competition The Company’s business is concentrated in newspapers, Web sites and other print publications located primarily in small metropolitan and suburban areas in the United States. Revenues in the newspaper industry primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising and paid circulation comes from local, regional and national newspapers, shopping guides, television, radio, direct mail, online services and other forms of communication and advertising media. Competition for advertising revenues is based largely upon advertiser results, readership, advertising rates, demographics and circulation levels; while competition for circulation and readership is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price and the effectiveness of its distribution. In recent years, the Company has faced increasing competition from online sources which have had, and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Many of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than does the Company. Dependence on Local Economies The Company’s advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues are dependent on a variety of factors specific to the communities that the Company’s newspapers serve. These factors 12 include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, local economic conditions in general, and the related retail segments in particular, as well as local weather conditions. For example, the Company’s Michigan and Ohio clusters are particularly impacted by the automotive sector. Capitalization As of December 31, 2006, the consolidated indebtedness of the Company was $730.2 million, which represents a leverage ratio of approximately 5.7 times the Company’s twelve months trailing cash flow, as calculated pursuant to the Company’s Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had net stockholders’ equity of $199.8 million and total capitalization of $930.0 million and, accordingly, the percentage of the Company’s indebtedness to total capitalization was 78.1 percent. The Company may incur additional indebtedness to, among other things, fund operations, make capital expenditures, consummate future acquisitions, share repurchases or pay dividends. The Company’s results of operation s will be impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. See ‘‘Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.’’ The Company’s management believes that cash provided by operating activities, future borrowings and its ability to issue securities will be sufficient to fund its operations, to meet requirements under its Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility, and pursue its acquisition strategies. However, a decline in cash provided by operating activities, which could result from factors beyond the Company’s control, such as unfavorable economic conditions, an overall decline in advertising revenues or increased competition could impair the Company’s ability to service its debt. The Credit Agreement requires the maintenance of certain financial ratios and imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on the Compan y, which may restrict, among other things, the Company’s ability to declare dividends, repurchase Company stock, incur indebtedness, create liens, sell assets, consummate mergers, and make capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions. Digital Media Initiatives The Company is seeking to grow its online revenues through a number of digital media initiatives. As part of its growth strategy, the Company is expanding resources on developing online products and services internally as well as making acquisitions of, and partnering with online businesses. There can be no assurances that the Company’s digital media initiatives will be successful or result in significant online revenue growth. Acquisition Strategy The Company has grown in part through, and anticipates that it will continue to grow in part through, acquisitions of daily and non-daily newspapers, similar publications and other strategic acquisitions. On March 29, 2006, the Company acquired Suburban Lifestyles Community Newspaper Group, on December 6, 2005, the Company acquired JobsInTheUS, a group of online recruiting Web sites and on August 12, 2004, the Company completed its largest acquisition to date, the acquisition of 21st Century. Acquisitions, including those identified above, may expose the Company to risks, including, without limitation, diversion of management’s attention, assumption of unidentified liabilities and as similation of the operations and personnel of acquired businesses, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Depending on the value and nature of the consideration paid by the Company for acquisitions, such acquisitions may have a dilutive impact on the Company’s earnings per share. In making acquisitions, the Company competes for acquisition targets with other companies, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources than does the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of such opportunities, executing acquisitions successfully, achieving anticipated synergies, evaluating the costs of new growth opportunities at existing operations or managing the publications it owns and improving their operating efficiency. Historically, the Company has financed acquisitions through availab le cash, cash flows from operations, borrowings and sales of non-strategic properties. The Company anticipates that it will finance future acquisitions through these same resources. However, the Company may elect to issue equity 13 securities to finance any acquisition, which would result in dilution to existing shareholders. The Credit Agreement limits acquisitions to certain permitted investments and newspapers in the United States, and requires that acquisitions be financed through certain permitted sources. In addition, the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement may limit the Company’s ability to make acquisitions. Price and Availability of Newsprint The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint. The Company purchases the majority of its newsprint through its central purchasing group, Journal Register Supply and has no long-term contracts to purchase newsprint. Generally, Journal Register Supply purchases most of its newsprint from one or two suppliers, although in the future the Company may purchase newsprint from other suppliers. Historically, the percentage of newsprint purchased from each supplier has varied. The Company’s management believes that concentrating its newsprint purchases in this way provides a more secure newsprint supply and lower unit prices. The Company’s management also believes that it purchases newsprint at price levels lower than those that are generally available to individually owned small metropolitan and suburban newspapers, and consistent with price levels generally available to the largest newsprint purchasers. The available sources of newsprint have been, and the Company believes will continue to be, adequate to supply the Company’s needs. The inability of the Company to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Historically, the price of newsprint has been cyclical and subject to price fluctuations. The Company believes that if any price decrease or increase is sustained in the industry, the Company will also be impacted by such change. The Company seeks to manage the effects of increases in prices of newsprint through a combination of, among other things, technology improvements, including Web-width reductions, inventory management, and advertising and circulation price increases. In fiscal year 2006, the Com pany’s newsprint cost (excluding paper consumed in the Company’s commercial printing operations) was approximately 7.2 percent of the Company’s newspaper revenues. Strikes and Other Union Activity Certain of the Company’s employees at some of its newspapers are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company is unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements, or significant labor disputes could adversely affect our business. Environmental Matters The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to air and water quality, storage tanks and the management and disposal of waste at its facilities. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations as currently interpreted. The Company cannot predict with any certainty whether future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to the Company, may give rise to additional costs that could be material. Furthermore, actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Tax Regulations The Company is subject to changes in federal, state, and local taxes. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning tax matters could result in laws or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 14 