Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That Could Affect Future Results We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will sustain our recent profitability. Our transition to a recurring revenue model resulted in non-GAAP quarterly operating profits in the third and fourth quarters of 2010. The profits were insufficient to offset losses in the first half of 2010. Consequently, we incurred net losses of $12.7 million in 2010, which follows net losses of $18.0 million and $13.8 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, as part of our transition, revenues from perpetual licenses and professional services have declined significantly, and we do not expect revenues from either to return to historical levels. Furthermore, as a result of the transition to a recurring revenue model and in the face of challenging macro-economic conditions, our revenue decreased by 13% from 2009 to 2010. To maintain our recent non-GAAP profitability, we must further increase our total revenues, principally by growing our recurring revenue offerings by entering into more or larger transactions and maintaining or reducing the rate of existing customer cancellations. As an example of ways to increase our recurring revenue, beginning in the second half of 2009 we began to offer time-based term licenses of our software applications to those customers that are only interested in solutions available for use on their premises. While we have closed a number of time-based term license transactions since its introduction, there is no assurance that this new licensing structure or others will be well received by the customers in our target markets or result in substantial growth of our recurring revenues. If we cannot increase our recurring revenue, our future results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain profitability. To maintain non-GAAP profitability, we must also ensure that our cost structure is aligned with our new model. To reduce our expenses, we took a number of cost reduction steps in 2010. These cost reduction efforts included headcount reductions. In connection with restructurings in 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred expenses of $1.7 million, $3.0 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. We are continuing to monitor our expenses in an effort to further optimize our performance for the long-term. However, there is no assurance that these steps to manage our expenses will be adequate or that unforeseen expenses, or difficulties or delays may prevent us from realizing our goals. Consequently, we may be required to incur additional restructuring expenses or implement other cost reduction efforts in the future and, even with these or any future actions, we cannot be sure that we will sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, we cannot be certain that steps taken to control our costs in the near term will not adversely affect our prospects for long-term revenue growth. If we cannot increase our total and recurring revenues, continue to improve our gross 13 Table of Contents margins, and control our costs, our future results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. If we are unable to increase the profitability of our recurring revenue products and services, experience significant customer attrition, or if we are required to defer recognition of revenue, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources to expand, market, and implement and refine our recurring revenue products and services offerings. Our business model shift to recurring revenues, and our on-demand services in particular, has generally generated much lower gross margins than our traditional perpetual license sales. If we are unable to increase the volume of our on-demand business to offset the lower margins, we may not be able to achieve sustained profitability. In order to sustain or increase our recent operating profitability, we must improve gross margins in our recurring revenue product and services offerings. Factors that could harm our ability to improve our gross margins include: •Increased costs to license and maintain third party software embedded in our software applications or the cost to create or substitute such third party software if it can no longer be licensed on commercially reasonable terms; •our inability to maintain or increase the prices customers pay for our products and services based on competitive pricing pressures and general economic conditions limiting customer demand; •increased cost of third party services providers, including hosting facilities for our on-demand operations and professional services contractors performing implementation and technical support services to on-demand customers; •customer contractual requirements that delay revenue recognition until customer implementations commence production operations or customer-specific requirements are met; •significant attrition as customers decide for their own economic or other reasons to not renew their on-demand contracts when they are up for renewal could negatively impact the efficiency of our data centers and lead to the costs being spread over fewer customers negatively impacting gross margin; •inefficiencies, delays and unacceptable quality from our third party vendors performing product development, technical support and professional implementation services; •the inability to implement, or delays in implementing, technology-based efficiencies and efforts to streamline and consolidate processes to reduce operating costs; and •higher wage and benefits costs for our existing personnel or the need to increase the number of our employees to support increasing customer demands for our professional services, technical support or general operations. If we are unable to increase our recurring revenue gross margins, our ability to sustain or increase our operating profits will be hindered and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our on-demand service and maintenance support over the terms of the subscription and maintenance support agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize on-demand and maintenance revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription and maintenance support agreements, which are typically 12 to 24 months, although terms can range from one to 60 months. As a result, most of the recurring revenues we report in each quarter result from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription and maintenance agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions and maintenance in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our on-demand service and time-based term licenses may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our on-demand subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services and enhance our existing products and services rapidly and cost-effectively. Failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products and services may adversely affect our operating results. The sales performance management software market is characterized by: •Rapid technological advances in hardware and software development; •evolving standards in computer hardware, software technology and communications infrastructure; •changing customer needs; and •frequent new product introductions and enhancements. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, achieve market acceptance and effectively respond to competitive product introductions, we must quickly identify emerging trends and requirements, accurately define and design enhancements and improvements for existing products and services and introduce new products and services. Accelerated introductions and short product life cycles for products and services require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results. Further, any new products or services we develop may not be introduced in a timely manner or available in a distribution model acceptable to our target markets and may therefore not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are unable to quickly and successfully develop and distribute new products and services cost-effectively or enhance existing products and services or if we fail to position and price our products and services to meet market demand, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our use of third-party international product development, support and professional services may prove difficult to manage or of inadequate quality to allow us to realize our cost reduction goals and produce new products and services and provide professional services in order to drive growth. We use an India-based firm to provide certain software engineering services for product development, customer technical support and professional consulting services and we expect to expand our use of this and other offshore third-parties to perform technical services in the future. Shifting more of our new product and services development, support and professional consulting efforts to offshore resources has required and will continue to require, detailed technical and logistical 15 Table of Contents coordination to ensure that international resources are aware of and understand development specifications and customer support, implementation and configuration requirements and that they can meet applicable timelines or, if they are not met, that any delays are not significant. We may not be able to maintain acceptable standards of quality in support, product development and professional services. If we are unable to successfully maintain the quality of services provided by our international third-party service providers, our attempts to reduce costs and drive growth through new products and margin improvements in technical support and professional services may be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we transition too much of our development, support or professional services offshore and we are not able to effectively manage these out-sourced providers, our ability to quickly respond to changing market demands and support our customers may be severely compromised which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, outsourcing services to offshore providers may expose us to misappropriation of our intellectual property or that of our customers, or make it more difficult to defend our rights in our technology. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to continue to fluctuate, possibly substantially, which may harm our results of operations. Although our revenue is primarily focused on recurring revenues, we anticipate continuing perpetual license revenue business, particularly with international customers. Some perpetual license revenue is difficult to forecast and which is likely to fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are wholly or partially beyond our control. We expect that our ongoing focus on our on-demand business will result in lower revenues from perpetual licenses and decreased customer expenditures on professional services over historical levels. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as definitive indicators of future performance. Factors that may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate include: •the discretionary nature of our customers' purchase and budget cycles and changes in their budgets for software and related purchases; •the priority our customers place on the purchase of our products as compared to other information technology and capital acquisitions; •competitive conditions in our industry, including new product introductions, product announcements and discounted pricing or special payment terms offered by our competitors; •changes in the average selling prices of our products; •varying size, timing and contractual terms of orders for our products, which may delay the recognition of revenues; •indeterminate and often lengthy sales cycles; •changes in the mix of revenues attributable to higher-margin product license or maintenance revenues as opposed to substantially lower-margin on-demand and professional services and other revenues; •disruption in the financial and insurance industries and the global financial crisis, which may result in the deferral or cancellation of future purchases of our products and services; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; •merger and acquisition activities among our customers, which may alter their buying patterns, or failure of potential customers, which may reduce demand for our products and services; 16 Table of Contents •the extent to which our customer's needs for professional services are reduced as a result of product improvements as well as implementation efficiencies in our on-demand offering over traditional on-premise implementations; •the utilization rate of our professional services personnel and the degree to which we use third-party consulting services; •the rates the market will bear for our professional services and our ability to efficiently and profitably perform such services based on those market rates; and •increased operating expenses associated with channel sales and increased product development efforts. Decreases in renewal rates for customer on-demand subscription or on premise maintenance arrangements could materially impact our future revenues or operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our on-demand service or maintenance support for term or perpetual license transactions after the expiration of their initial subscription or maintenance period, which is typically 12 to 24 months, and some customers have elected not to renew. Our customers may renew for fewer payees or renew for shorter contract lengths. In addition, in 2009 we began to offer a pay-as-you-go model, whereby customers can pay for our on-demand service on a monthly basis without a long-term commitment, which may unexpectedly increase the rate of customer non-renewals and thus negatively affect our recurring revenue during any reporting period. Accordingly, although renewal rates have remained relatively consistent for our on-demand and license customers, there is no assurance that this will continue. If our customers' renewal rates decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their reduced spending levels, their decision to do more of the work themselves internally, or dissatisfaction with our service, or if our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our on-demand services or maintenance support, our revenue will be adversely affected and our business will suffer. Our professional services revenues declined materially in recent periods as a result of changes to our business model, and we do not expect them to return to previous historical levels. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues were derived from the performance of professional services, primarily implementation, configuration, training and other consulting services in connection with perpetual licenses and ongoing projects. However, given the shift in our business model to on-demand and other factors, services revenue has declined materially, and we expect services revenues to be a much smaller portion of our revenues going forward. Characteristics of our on-demand offering contributing to the decline in our service revenue include: •The initial implementation time for our on-demand solution is substantially less than our traditional on-premise enterprise software model resulting in a decreased need for our professional services. •Historically, our on-premise enterprise software license transactions require post-implementation professional services, typically in the form of upgrade, updates and configuration support. Under our on-demand solution model, upgrades and updates are included in our on-demand technical operations thereby further reducing customers' professional services needs. •The number of third party professional services providers capable of implementing, configuring and performing other consulting services related to our on-demand solutions, including our partners and traditional subcontractors, continues to expand, increasing competition with our internal professional services organization. For these and other reasons, our professional service revenues may decline further in the future. 17 Table of Contents We might not be able to manage our operations efficiently or profitably. Since 2008, we have significantly reduced the size of our internal organization as we have transitioned to a recurring revenue model, expanded our offshore and third party professional services partnerships and in reaction to the challenging economic environment during this time. As we continue to optimize our operations in relation to our recurring revenue model, we expect additional adjustments or restructuring in our organizational structure will continue. The actions we have taken and may take in the future may cause disruptions in or add complexity to our operations. In addition, during periods of growth in our operations, we will likely need to expand the size of our staff, grow and manage our related operations and third party partnerships and strengthen our financial and accounting controls. Any expansion may increase our expenses, and there is no assurance that our infrastructure would be sufficiently scalable to efficiently manage any growth that we may experience. If we expand our operations, our systems, procedures or controls might not be adequate to support expansion. Further, to the extent we invest in additional resources and growth in our revenues does not ensue, our operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to further leverage our operating cost investments as a percentage of revenues our ability to generate or increase profits will be adversely impacted. Our service revenues produce substantially lower gross margins than our license and recurring revenues, and periodic variations in the proportional relationship between services revenues and higher margin recurring and license revenues have harmed, and may continue to harm, our overall gross margins. Our services revenues, which include fees for consulting, implementation and training, were 21%, 37%, and 46% of our revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our services revenues have substantially lower gross margins than our recurring and license revenues. Historically, services revenues as a percentage of total revenues have varied significantly from period to period due to a number of circumstances including fluctuations in licensing and, to a lesser extent, recurring revenues, changes in the average selling prices for our products and services and the effectiveness and appeal of competitive service providers. More recently, the extent of the fluctuations has diminished, primarily as a consequence of decreased need for consulting services and fewer perpetual license transactions under our recurring revenue model. However, while the fluctuation in the percentage of services revenues as compared to total revenues has moderated on a quarterly basis, we continue to expect wider variability in services revenue itself from quarter-to-quarter, principally as the number of new recurring revenue customer transactions varies from quarter to quarter. In addition, the volume and profitability of services can depend in large part upon: •Competitive pricing pressure on the rates that we can charge for our professional services; •increases or decreases in the number of services projects being performed on a fixed bid or acceptance basis that may defer recognition of revenue; •the timing and amount of any remediation services related to professional services warranty claims; •the complexity of the customers' information technology environments; •the priority and resources customers place on their implementation projects; and •the extent to which outside consulting organizations provide services directly to customers. As an example of pressure on our services offerings, many of our potential customers are outsourcing technology projects offshore to take advantage of lower labor costs and we have also begun utilizing more offshore subcontracting resources to provide professional services at competitive market rates. Additionally, market rates for the types of professional services we offer may be greater or less 18 Table of Contents than the rates we charge domestically depending on the geographic regions where the services are performed. Moreover, as we expand our international services operations, revenues may be impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Consequently, as we expand our customer base internationally, we expect greater variation in the proportion of services revenues compared to our other higher margin recurring and license revenues, which may increase or erode margins for our service revenues and our overall gross margins. The market for sales performance management software is still evolving and may not continue to develop as we expect. Our business is in the market for sales performance management software, which is an evolving market. We believe one of our key challenges is to convince prospective customers of their need for our products and services and to persuade them that they should make purchases of our products and services a higher priority relative to other projects. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the number of organizations adopting sales performance management software as a solution to address the problems related to managing the performance of their sales organizations. The market for sales performance management software may not develop as we expect, or at all. Moreover, our competitors may be more successful than we are in capturing the market. In either case, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Disruptions in the financial and insurance industries or the global economic crisis may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition. A substantial portion of our revenues have been derived from sales of our products and services to customers in the insurance, high technology, manufacturing, and pharmaceuticals industries. The substantial disruptions in these industries and in the financial sector in 2009 and 2010 resulted in customers deferring or cancelling future planned expenditures on our products and services. Further, consolidations and business failures in these industries could reduce demand for our products and services even more. In addition, the disruptions in these industries and the concurrent global financial crisis may cause other potential customers to defer or cancel future purchases of our products and services as they seek to conserve resources in the face of economic turmoil and the drastically reduced availability of capital in the equity and debt markets. Any of these developments, or the combination of these developments, may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition in future periods. Acquisitions and investments present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our product and services offerings to meet our customers' needs and grow revenues, both through internal development efforts and external acquisitions and partnerships. Consequently, we may in the future acquire or make investments in other companies, products, services and technologies. For example, in February 2011, we acquired ForceLogix, Inc., an online sales processes and coaching solution provider and in January 2010, we completed the acquisition of Actek, a leading provider of commissions and compliance software for complex selling environments for the insurance and financial services industries. We may not realize the expected benefits of acquisitions or investments we made or may make in the future. For example, after acquiring Compensation Technologies in January 2008 to strengthen our professional service operation, demand for our professional services declined substantially, in the face of challenging macro-economic conditions. In addition, acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including the following: •We may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; 19 Table of Contents •we may find that the acquired business or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the business or assets, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate a future impairment charge; •we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; •there may be customer confusion where our products overlap with those of the acquired business; •we may become exposed to liabilities associated with the sale of the acquired business' products and services; •our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues or the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; •we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; •acquisitions may result in litigation from terminated employees or third-parties; and •we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket expenses. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial condition and operating results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash or incur substantial debt to consummate such acquisitions. If we incur substantial debt, it could result in material limitations on the conduct of our business. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options, existing stockholders may be diluted. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs (such as acquired in-process research and development) and restructuring charges. They may also result in the acquisition of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. The loss of key personnel, higher than normal employee attrition in key departments, or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the abilities and effectiveness of our personnel, and in particular our president and chief executive officer and our other executive officers. All of our existing personnel, including our executive officers, are employed on an "at-will" basis. If we lose or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise competes with us, it could impair our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Likewise, if a number of employees from specific departments were to depart, our short-term ability to maintain business operations and implement our business plan may be impaired. Additionally, if we are unable to quickly hire qualified replacements for our executives, other key positions or employees within specific departments, our ability to execute our business plan could be harmed. Even if we can quickly hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. 20 Table of Contents Our products have long sales cycles, which makes it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our results. The sales cycles for our various recurring revenue solutions are still evolving, and as we continue to broaden our offerings it is difficult to determine with any certainty how long our sales cycles for our solutions will be in the future. Consequently, it remains difficult to predict the quarter in which a particular sale will close and to plan expenditures accordingly. Moreover, because sales are often completed in the final two weeks of a quarter, the impact of recurring revenue transactions is typically not reflected in our financial statements until subsequent quarters. Additionally, global economic uncertainty and corporate cost-cutting are likely to continue throughout 2011, thereby prolonging the difficulty of predicting sales into the foreseeable future. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and its purchase of our products and services is relatively long due to several factors, which may include: •The complex nature of our products; •the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services; •budget cycles of our potential customers that affect the timing of purchases; •customer requirements for competitive evaluation and internal approval before purchasing our products and services; •potential delays of purchases due to announcements or planned introductions of new products and services by us or our competitors; and •the lengthy approval processes of our potential customers, many of which are large organizations. The failure to complete sales of our on-demand solution in a particular quarter will defer revenues into subsequent quarters as revenue from our on-demand services are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. Deployment of our products and services frequently requires substantial technical implementation and support by us or third-party service providers. Failure to meet these requirements could cause a decline or delay in recognition of our revenues and an increase in our expenses. Deployments of our products and services frequently require a substantial degree of technical and logistical expertise. Moreover, our customers can require large, enterprise-wide deployments of our products and services. It may be difficult for us to manage these deployments, including the timely allocation of personnel and resources by us and our customers. Failure to successfully manage the process could harm our reputation both generally and with specific customers and may cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the number of new customers that purchase our products, each of which could adversely affect our revenues and increase our technical support and litigation costs. If implementation services are not provided successfully and in a timely manner, our customers may experience increased costs and errors, which may result in customer dissatisfaction and costly remediation and litigation, any of which could adversely impact our reputation, operating results and financial condition. We make estimates of sales return reserves related to potential future requirements to provide remediation services in connection with current period service revenues, which are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements. If actual remediation services exceed our estimates we could be required to take additional charges, which could be material. 21 Table of Contents Breaches of security or failure to safeguard customer data could create the perception that our products and services are not secure, causing customers to discontinue or reject the use of our products or services and potentially subject us to significant liability. Implementing, monitoring and maintaining adequate security safeguards may be costly. Our on-demand service allows our customers to access our software and transmit confidential data, including personally identifiable individual data of their employees, agents, and customers over the Internet. We also store data provided to us by our customers on servers in a third-party data warehouse. In addition, we may have access to confidential and private individual data as part of our professional services organization activities, including implementation, maintenance and support of our software for time-based term and perpetual license customers. Moreover, many of our customers are subject to heightened security obligations regarding the personally identifiable information of their customers. In the United States, these heightened obligations particularly affect the financial services, healthcare and insurance sectors, which are subject to stringent controls over personal information under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. In addition, the European Union Directive on Data Protection as well as the laws and regulations of the Member States of the European Union implementing the directive create international obligations on the protection of personal data that typically exceed security requirements mandated in the United States. The security measures we have implemented and may need to implement, monitor and maintain in the future to satisfy the requirements of our customers may be substantial and involve significant time and effort, which are typically not chargeable to our customers. If we do not adequately safeguard the information imported into our software or otherwise provided to us by our customers, or if third parties penetrate our systems or security and misappropriate our customers' confidential information, our reputation may be damaged and we may be sued and incur substantial damages in connection with such disclosures or misappropriations. Even if it is determined that our security measures were adequate, the damage to our reputation may cause customers and potential customers to reconsider the use of our software and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees and subcontractors, including sales, professional services, technical support and engineering personnel, our growth may be impaired. To expand our business successfully and maintain a high level of quality, we need to continually recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and subcontractors in all areas of our business, including sales, professional services and engineering. In particular, if we are unable to hire or subcontract for and retain talented professional services and technical support personnel with the skills, and in the locations, we require, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or further increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain of our labor needs. As our customer base increases and as we continue to evaluate and modify our organizational structure to increase efficiency, we are likely to experience staffing constraints in connection with the deployment of trained and experienced professional services and support resources capable of implementing, configuring, maintaining and support our software and related services for existing customers. Moreover, as a company focused on the development of complex products and providing online services, we are often in need of additional software developers and engineers. If we do not compete effectively, our revenues may not grow and could decline. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition from a number of software companies. We compete principally with vendors of Sales Performance Management (SPM) 22 Table of Contents software, Enterprise Incentive Management (EIM) software, enterprise resource planning software, and customer relationship management software. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers or changing industry standards. Increased competition may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our enterprise resource planning competitors and other potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources. Many also have a larger installed base of users, longer operating histories or greater name recognition. Some of our competitors' products may also be more effective at performing particular SPM or EIM system functions or may be more customized for particular customer needs in a given market. Even if our competitors provide products with less SPM or EIM system functionality than our products, these products may incorporate other capabilities, such as recording and accounting for transactions, customer orders or inventory management data. A product that performs these functions, as well as some of the functions of our software solutions, may be appealing to some customers because it would reduce the number of software applications used to run their business. Our products must be integrated with software provided by a number of our existing or potential competitors. These competitors could alter their products in ways that inhibit integration with our products, or they could deny or delay our access to advance software releases, which would restrict our ability to adapt our products for integration with their new releases and could result in the loss of both sales opportunities and renewals of on-demand services and maintenance. A substantial majority of our revenues are derived from our TrueComp® software application and related products and services, and a decline in sales of these products and services could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial majority of our product revenues from our TrueComp application and related products and services. Our on-demand solution consists substantially of our TrueComp application. In addition, our installed base of perpetual license customers predominantly purchased our TrueComp application, and our ability to generate maintenance revenue from these customers depends on their continued use of our TrueComp application. As a result of these factors, on-demand and maintenance revenue from these customers depends on the customer use of our TrueComp application, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for our TrueComp application. Accordingly, if demand for our TrueComp application and related products and services decline significantly, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If we reduce prices, alter our payment terms or modify our products or services in order to compete successfully, our margins and operating results may be adversely affected. The intensely competitive market in which we do business may require us to reduce our prices and/or modify our pricing strategies in ways that may adversely affect our operating results. If our competitors offer deep discounts on competitive products or services, we may be required to lower prices or offer other terms more favorable to our customers in order to compete successfully. Some of our competitors may bundle their software products that compete with ours with their other products and services for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our products or cause us to modify our existing market strategies for our products and services. If we cannot offset price reductions and other terms more favorable to our customers with a corresponding increase in sales or decreased spending, then the reduced revenues resulting from lower prices or revenue recognition delays would adversely affect our margins and operating results. 23 Table of Contents Our products rely on third party software licenses to operate and the delivery of our on-demand services relies on services provided by third parties, and the loss or inability to maintain these licenses or receive these services, errors in such software, discontinuation or updates to such software, or disruption in such services could result in increased costs, delayed sales, or customer claims against, or termination of, our existing agreements. We license technology from several software providers for our rules engine, analytics, and web viewer application, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so for these features and other applications and from these or other providers in connection with future products. We also rely on generally available third-party software to run our applications. Any of these software applications may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or new versions may be released that are incompatible with our prior or existing software releases. Some of the products could be difficult to replace, and developing or integrating new software with our products could require months or years of design and engineering work. The loss or modification of any of these technologies could result in delays in the license of our products until equivalent technology is developed or, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. Acquisitions of our third-party technology licenses by our competitors or otherwise may have a material adverse impact on us if the acquirer seeks to cancel or change the terms of our license. We use a third party data center facility in California and, a third party data center in Virginia to deliver our on demand solution. We do not control the operation of these facilities and the third party operators of these facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, these facilities are vulnerable to damage and service interruptions particularly considering they are located in areas known for risks from natural and other types of disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, power losses, and telecommunications failures. Interruptions in the services provided by these facilities, whether by disasters or the inability to reach contractual agreements with our third party hosting providers, may result in unexpected and possibly lengthy service interruptions. Any service interruptions, regardless of the cause, may result in material liability claims against us for breach of service level commitments to our customers, customer terminations and damage to our reputation. In addition, our products depend upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products and services and, therefore, any undetected errors in these products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions or limit availability of our products via our on-demand service and/or injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software that requires us to enter into license agreements with third parties could result in new or higher royalty payments. Errors in our products and interruptions in our services could be costly to correct and time consuming to repair, and adversely affect our reputation and impair our ability to sell our products and services. Our products and services are complex and, accordingly, they may contain errors, or "bugs," that could be detected at any point in their product life cycle or interrupt the availability of our applications via our on-demand offering at any time. Errors in our products and vulnerabilities in our hosted services are likely to be found in the future. Any errors or vulnerabilities could be extremely costly to correct, materially and adversely affect our reputation and impair our ability to sell our products and services. Further, our efforts to reduce costs by employing more subcontracting personnel to perform product development, technical support, professional services and application hosting tasks may make it more difficult for us to timely respond to product errors and service interruptions. Moreover, customers relying on our products to calculate and pay incentive compensation may have a greater sensitivity to product errors, security vulnerabilities and service interruptions than customers for software products in general. If we incur substantial costs to correct any product errors or repair service availability issues, our operating margins would be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Because our customers depend on our software for their critical business functions, any interruptions could result in: •Lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products and services; •product liability suits against us; •diversion of development resources; and •substantially greater service level credits and warranty costs. Our latest product features and functionality may require existing on premise customers to migrate to more recent versions of our software. Moreover, we may choose to or be compelled to discontinue maintenance support for older versions of our software products, forcing our on premise customers to upgrade their software in order to continue receiving maintenance support. If existing on premise customers fail to migrate or delay migration to newer versions of our software, our revenues may be harmed. We plan to pursue sales of new product modules to our existing customers who currently have on premise perpetual and time-based term licenses of TrueComp software. To take advantage of new features and functionality in our latest modules, customers with on-premise license using older versions of our software applications may need to migrate to a more current version of our products. We also expect to periodically terminate maintenance support on older versions of our products for various reasons including, without limitation, termination of support by third-party software vendors whose products complement ours or upon which we are dependent. Termination of maintenance may force our perpetual license customers to migrate to more current versions of our software. Regardless of the reason, upgrading to more current versions of our products is likely to involve additional cost, which our customers may delay or decline to incur. If a sufficient number of our customers do not migrate to newer versions of our software, our continued maintenance support opportunities and our ability to sell additional products to these customers, and as a result, our revenues and operating income, may possibly be harmed significantly. Our revenues might be harmed by resistance to adoption of our software by information technology departments. Some potential customers have already made a substantial investment in third-party or internally developed software designed to model, administer, analyze and report on pay-for-performance programs. These companies may be reluctant to abandon these investments in favor of our software. In addition, information technology departments of potential customers may resist purchasing our software solutions for a variety of other reasons, particularly the potential displacement of their historical role in creating and running software and concerns that packaged and hosted software products are not sufficiently customizable or pose data security concerns for their enterprises. We may lose sales opportunities and our business may be harmed if we do not successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships to implement and sell our products and services. We have relationships with third-party consulting firms, systems integrators and software vendors. These third parties may provide us with customer referrals, cooperate with us in the design, sales and/or marketing of our products and services, provide valuable insights into market demands and provide our customers with systems implementation services or overall program management. However, in some cases we may not have formal agreements governing our ongoing relationship with certain of these third-party providers and the agreements we do have generally do not include specific obligations with respect to generating sales opportunities or cooperating on future business. We also have and are considering strategic relationships that are new or unusual for us and which can pose additional risks. While reseller arrangements offer the advantage of leveraging larger sales 25 Table of Contents organizations than our own to sell our products, they also require considerable time and effort on our part to train and support our strategic partner's personnel, and require our strategic partners to properly motivate and incentivize their sales force. Also, if the reseller agreement is an exclusive arrangement, there is risk that the exclusivity prevents us from pursuing the applicable markets ourselves, which if the reseller is not being successful there on our behalf, may adversely affect our results of operations. Should any of these third parties go out of business or choose not to work with us; we may be forced to develop new capabilities internally, which may cause significant delays and expense, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. Any of our third-party providers may offer products of other companies, including products that compete with our products. If we do not successfully and efficiently establish, maintain, and expand our industry relationships with influential market participants, we could lose sales and service opportunities, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenues and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success and ability to compete is dependent on the proprietary technology embedded in our products and services. We rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We cannot protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect its unauthorized use. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and/or reverse engineer our products and services and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed programs and services may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent that we engage in international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products, services and proprietary information increases. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and consultants and with the customers and corporations with whom we have strategic relationships. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products, services and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and services. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to a protracted infringement claim or one that results in a significant damage award. From time to time, we receive claims that our products, services offerings or business infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of third parties and our competitors or other third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. For example, we recently were sued by a party claiming that we are infringing certain of their patent rights. We believe that claims of infringement are likely to increase as the functionality of our products and services expand and as new products and services are introduced. A claim may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. If we are subject to a claim of infringement, regardless of the merit of the claim or our defenses, the claim could: •Require costly litigation to resolve; 26 Table of Contents •absorb significant management time; •cause us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements; •require us to discontinue the sale of all or a portion of our products or services; •require us to indemnify our customers or third-party systems integrators; or •require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our products or services. Our inclusion of open source software in our products may expose us to liability or require release of our source code. We use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more in the future. From time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. In addition, some open source software is provided under licenses that require that proprietary software, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license and thus freely available. While we take steps to minimize the risk that our software, when combined with open source software, would become subject to open source licenses, few courts have interpreted open source licenses. As a result, the manner in which these licenses will be enforced is unclear. If our software were to become subject to open source licenses, our ability to commercialize our products and services and our operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Uncertain economic conditions may adversely impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by adverse worldwide economic conditions and geopolitical instability. Further weakening in the global economy, or a further decline in confidence in the economy, could adversely impact our business in a number of important respects. These include (i) reduced bookings and revenues, as a result of longer sales cycles, reduced, deferred or cancelled customer purchases and lower average selling prices; (ii) increased operating losses and reduced cash flows from operations; (iii) greater than anticipated uncollectible accounts receivable and increased allowances for doubtful accounts receivable; and (iv) impairment in the value of our financial and non-financial assets resulting in non-cash impairment charges. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of amounts identified for specific customers. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, and we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. For example, we were unable to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2010 primarily as a result of performing additional analyses and reviews of our internal control over financial reporting. These additional procedures were required because we did not receive a Statement on Auditing Standards No. 70 (SAS 70) attestation report from one of our third party service providers prior to our filling deadline. Although 27 Table of Contents we have used their software application and received SAS 70 attestation reports from this service provider for the last four years, after their acquisition in 2010 by another vendor, their process to obtain a SAS 70 Certification for 2011 was not timely commenced to allow completion prior to the filing deadline for our Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, we were unable to rely on their internal control environment as it relates to our use of their professional services automation service and we were unable to complete our additional testing to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because we did not receive the attestation report and were unable to rely on their internal control environment, we concluded that this control deficiency represented a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting. The Company has implemented additional measures to monitor the timely receipt of SAS 70 reports from all of our service providers. However we will continue to be dependent on our service providers to provide their SAS 70 reports on a timely basis. If we experience a significant deficiency, material weakness or any other delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced system, procedures or controls, our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our system integrators and other third-party service vendors and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. We expect to continue expanding our international operations but in some international markets we have little or no experience, and may not achieve the expected results. We have been expanding our international operations since 2006 and expect to continue expanding these operations in 2011. International expansion in certain markets may require substantial financial resources and a significant amount of attention from our management. International operations involve a variety of risks, particularly: •Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws and tariffs; •differing abilities to protect our intellectual property rights; •use of international resellers and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act; •differing labor regulations; •greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products and services; •greater difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing foreign operations; •possible political and economic instability; and •fluctuating exchange rates. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services abroad. If we invest substantial time and resources to grow our international operations and fail to do so successfully and on a timely basis, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Our stock price is likely to remain volatile. The trading price of our common stock has in the past and may in the future be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described in this section. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts, and there frequently occurs an imbalance between supply and demand in the public trading market for our common stock due to limited trading volumes. Investors should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and should purchase our common stock only if they can withstand significant losses. Other factors that affect the volatility of our stock include: •Our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; 28 Table of Contents •significant sales or distributions by existing investors coupled with a lack of trading volume for our stock; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, results of operations, projections, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •changes in our management team; •publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; and •developments with respect to intellectual property rights. Additionally, some companies with volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action lawsuits filed against them. For example, in 2004 we were sued in connection with the decline in our stock price following the announcements of disappointing operating results and changes in senior management. Any future suits such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public trading market (or in private transactions) including sales by our executive officers, directors or institutional investors, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to drop. Provisions in our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms, which means that replacing a majority of our directors would require at least two annual meetings. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and would not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which would require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. In addition, we are a party to a stockholder rights agreement, which effectively prohibits a person from acquiring more than 15% (subject to certain exceptions) of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Furthermore, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. All of these factors make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it does not believe is in our strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, you could lose the opportunity to sell your shares at a favorable price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 29 Table of Contents 