ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If an adverse outcome of any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In evaluating our business, shareholders should consider carefully the following factors in addition to the other information presented herein. Our operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate significantly based on several factors, which can cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially affect net sales and profitability or lead to significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results. These factors include, among others: • the price of raw materials, the majority of which are petroleum derivatives. Prices of these raw materials are significantly affected by oil prices which are volatile; • factors relating to conditions in the semiconductor, disk drive and electronic industries including: — lower demand for products; — increased price competition; — downturns and deterioration of business conditions; — technological changes and the introduction of new products; and — changes in production processes in the semiconductor and electronic industries which could require changes in packaging products; • although we do not believe that it is our liability, the need for us to pay, and the amounts that we have previously paid and might in the future again pay on a voluntary basis for certain tax, social insurance contributions and potential penalties on behalf of the Factory at which our products are manufactured in order to avoid the seizure of the Factory’s assets and keep it operational, as well as claims resulting from employee lawsuits against the Factory; • our capital requirements and the availability of funding; • our expansion plan and possible disruptions caused by the installation of new equipment or the construction of new facilities; • difficulties in recycling trays manufactured using our proprietary plastic compounds; 11 Table of Contents • the lack of long-term purchase or supply agreements with customers; • the loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled employees; • international political or economic events or developments, including those relating to Hong Kong and the PRC; • our relationship with our processing partner in the PRC and the ability of the government of the PRC to seize the assets and shut down our main production facilities located in Shenzhen, the PRC (operated pursuant to a processing agreement with an unaffiliated PRC company) which we refer to as the Factory; • production volume fluctuations and the management of our inventories; • currency fluctuations and foreign exchange rules and regulations in the PRC; • the recurrence of SARS or other major health issues in Asia; • the outcome of our patent litigation in Taiwan; and • the imposition of fines, penalties and bonds arising from violations of rules and regulations in the PRC relating to customs regulations, foreign currency exchange rules, taxation, the withholding of taxes for employees and other laws and regulations. Unfavorable changes in the above or other factors could substantially harm our results of operations or financial condition. We believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful. You should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations in one or more periods fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock may decline, possibly by a significant amount. We depend on the health of the semiconductor, disk drive and electronic industries which are highly cyclical and the decline in demand for products in these industries could severely affect our net sales and financial results. Our net sales depend on increased demand for our products from manufacturers of semiconductor, disk drive and electronic components. Any deterioration of business conditions in the semiconductor industry, including lower demand for semiconductor products, decreased unit volume of semiconductor products shipped, other factors resulting in decreased demand for packaging products, or increased price competition in the semiconductor industry could result in increased price pressure on suppliers to the semiconductor industry, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The industries we serve are characterized by rapid technological change leading to more complex products, evolving industry standards, intense competition and fluctuations in demand. From time to time, demand for electronic systems, which generally include both semiconductors and electronic components, has suffered significant downturns, which in some cases have been prolonged. For example, during 2002 and 2003, demand for our products decreased as the overall economy and the electronic industry experienced a general downturn in business. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, product over-capacity and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturn in the semiconductor, disk drive or electronic industries may substantially harm our results of operations or financial condition. Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our key customers would harm our business. Our top 10 customers together accounted for 67.4%, 69.7% and 67.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. We are dependent upon a single customer, Seagate Technology, for substantially all sales of our disk drive trays, with whom we have no long-term contract. We also do not have long-term contracts with our other top 10 customers. Our ability to maintain close, mutually beneficial 12 Table of Contents relationships with our leading customers is important to the ongoing growth and profitability of our business. Although our sales to specific customers have varied from year to year, our results of operations have been dependent on a number of significant customers and the conditions of their respective industries. Substantially all of our customers operate in the global semiconductor, disk drive and electronic industries which historically have been highly cyclical. Other events such as consolidation within the semiconductor industry could also materially impact our sales. For example the merger of Seagate and Maxtor, two of our historically larger customers, and the subsequent rationalization of inventory had a substantial impact on our results of operation. As a result of the concentration of our customer base, the loss or cancellation of business from, or significant changes in scheduled deliveries or decreases in the prices of products or services provided to, any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales are made pursuant to purchase orders, and therefore, we generally have no agreements with or commitments from our customers for the purchase of products. Although customers typically provide us with one or two month forecasts of their requirements, these forecasts are not binding. Our customers may not maintain or increase their sales volumes or orders for our products and we may be unable to maintain or add to our existing customer base. As a result of the resignation of one of our directors in May 2007, we are not in compliance with NASDAQ rules regarding the composition of our board of directors and audit committee, and there is a risk of delisting if the non-compliance is not cured within the time period allowed by NASDAQ. On May 14, 2007, Mr. Thomas Gimple resigned from his position as a director and as a member of our Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The resignation of Mr. Gimple was not the result of any disagreement with us. As a result of Mr. Gimple’s resignation, our Audit Committee does not meet the requirement of NASDAQ Rule 4350(d)(2)(A) for three independent members, and we are out of compliance with NASDAQ Rule 4350(c)(1), which requires a majority of independent directors. Consequently, we are in the process of searching for a new candidate to serve on our board of directors to satisfy the NASDAQ Rules. We have notified NASDAQ of such circumstances as required by the applicable NASDAQ rules, and on May 29, 2007, NASDAQ formally gave written notice to us regarding our noncompliance with the NASDAQ rules. In the letter, NASDAQ confirmed that we have a cure period to regain compliance, which shall be until the earlier of our next annual shareholders’ meeting or May 14, 2008; or if our next annual shareholders’ meeting is held before November 12, 2007, then no later than November 12, 2007. While we have every intent to fill the position in the timeframe permitted, if we cannot cure such non-compliance, we face the risk of being delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. Our operations are concentrated in the People’s Republic of China and we are subject to the risks associated with international operations, which may negatively affect our business. As of March 31, 2007, substantially all of our fixed assets and inventories were located in Shenzhen, the PRC. Our main production facilities are located in Shenzhen, the PRC and are operated pursuant to a processing agreement with an unaffiliated PRC company, which we refer to as the Factory, that obligates it to provide all of the personnel for the operation of our facilities and to render assistance in dealing with matters relating to the import of raw materials and the export of our products. We are dependent on continued good relations with our processing partner in order to supervise the operation of the Factory and its employees. The Factory is located on land leased from the PRC government by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries under land use certificates and agreements with a remaining term of approximately 35 years. Our assets and facilities located in the PRC and the PRC company’s operation of the Factory are subject to the laws and regulations of the PRC and our results of operations in the PRC are subject to the economic and political situation in the PRC. In addition, during the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we discovered discrepancies, which were at the Factory and not at Peak, in the computation and withholding of both taxes and social insurance contributions for workers at the Factory. Upon discovery of these discrepancies, we conducted an internal review of the Factory’s practices and we concluded that the Factory had a duty to correct certain of these discrepancies. While we believe we were not contractually obligated under the terms of our agreement with our processing partner to pay these amounts, we elected to voluntarily make such payment in order to avoid the seizure of the Factory’s assets and keep it operational. Additional voluntary payments made by us on behalf of the Factory to the PRC tax authorities could diminish a significant portion of our current cash reserves and materially harm our operating results and business. 13 Table of Contents The operations of our production facilities in Shenzhen, the PRC may be harmed by changes in the laws and regulations of the PRC or the interpretation thereof, such as those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, foreign currency exchange regulations and other matters. Prior to September 2002, we exported all the products manufactured at our production facilities in Shenzhen, the PRC. Accordingly, we were not subject to certain PRC taxes and are exempt from customs duties on imported raw materials and exported products. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we finished the procedure of setting up a wholly-owned subsidiary in the PRC and hence a small portion of our products was sold locally in the PRC. This PRC subsidiary is subject to PRC taxes and customs duties on materials imported for such PRC sales. This PRC subsidiary ceased manufacturing operations in fiscal 2005. According to customs rules in the PRC, we may be subject to classification by the PRC customs authorities in a manner that would require us to supply a substantial bond against customs duties that we would have to pay if we were importing material for ultimate sale in the PRC. We may also be subject to significantly higher administrative importation costs generally. These measures could harm our ability to manufacture products at a competitive price and our results of operations could suffer. In addition, if we are required to post a bond in connection with our exemption status from PRC duties on imported raw materials for export sales and exported products, we will experience a substantial drain of our current cash reserves. We may not be able to provide the required bond at a commercially feasible cost, or at all. We may become subject to PRC taxes and may be required to pay customs duties in the future even under the contract processing agreement. If we are required to pay PRC taxes or customs duties, our results of operations could suffer. We believe that our operations in Shenzhen, the PRC are now in compliance with the applicable PRC legal and regulatory requirements for custom duties. However, the central or local governments of the PRC may impose new regulations or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations which could require additional expenditures or preclude the production of products in the PRC by Peak or our processing partner. The economy of the PRC differs from the economies of many countries in many respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self-sufficiency, rate of inflation and balance of payments position, among others. In the past, the economy of the PRC has been primarily a planned economy subject to state plans. Since the entry of the PRC into the World Trade Organization in 2002, the PRC government has been reforming its economic and political systems. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social change. We cannot assure, however, that the PRC government’s policies for economic reforms will be consistent or effective. Our results of operations and financial position may be harmed by changes in the PRC’s political, economic or social conditions. We, and the Factory at which our products are manufactured, have in the past and may in the future be the subject of investigations by PRC government authorities, which can divert management’s attention, lead to fines and penalties, increase our costs and harm our operating results. We and the Factory have in the past and may in the future be the subject of investigations by PRC government authorities. Such investigations are expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention away from running our business. In addition, as a result of such investigations we, or the Factory, may be subject to taxes, fines or penalties, which would increase our costs and harm our operating results. In the event the Factory is unable to pay any fines or penalties assessed against it by PRC authorities, we may voluntarily pay such amounts to avoid the seizure of our assets and the closure of the Factory. For example, in April 2005, the PRC tax authorities began an investigation into the withholding and payment of income taxes by the Factory in Shenzhen for certain current and former employees of Peak, our affiliates or other companies who performed services at the Factory but had not paid income taxes in the PRC and for whom the Factory did not withhold and pay income taxes. The PRC tax authorities sought to collect unpaid income taxes on salaries and expense allowances of certain current and former employees of Peak, our affiliates or other companies who performed services in the PRC based on such worker’s relationship with the Factory, and interest and penalties on such 14 Table of Contents amounts. Since some of these claims were based on income earned over several years, the amount of such taxes, accrued interest and penalties was substantial. We do not believe that we were liable for such claims, but in the event the PRC tax authorities determine payments for back taxes, interest and penalties are owed, the potential consequences could have included substantial monetary claims against the Factory or the seizure of the Factory and our assets at the Factory and the termination of substantially all of our production operations. As the PRC authorities did assert claims for such taxes against the Factory, we did make payments in fiscal 2006 on a voluntary basis in order to avoid the seizure of the Factory or our assets at the Factory and keep it operational. Additional voluntary payments by us on behalf of the Factory to the PRC tax authorities could diminish a significant portion of our current cash reserves and materially harm our operating results and business. Upon final settlement of this PRC tax investigation there were no interest or penalty assessments on the above unpaid income taxes associated with the Factory. However, we and the Factory may in the future be subject to further investigations by the PRC authorities, including tax authorities, for similar or other claims, including claims for other unpaid taxes, which we may pay whether or not we are contractually required to do so in order to avoid seizure of the Factory or some or all of its or our assets. Failure to successfully defend against intellectual property lawsuits brought against us may adversely affect our business. As technology is an integral part of our design and products, we have, in the past, received communications alleging that our products infringe or misappropriate certain intellectual property rights held by others, and may continue to receive such communications in the future. We are currently involved in an intellectual property dispute in Taiwan with R.H. Murphy Co., Inc. If any third party were to make valid intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims against us, we may be required to: • discontinue using disputed manufacturing process technologies; • stop selling products that contain allegedly infringing technology; • pay substantial monetary damages; • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • seek to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our products are found to infringe or misappropriate third-party intellectual property rights, we may be subject to significant liabilities and be required to change our manufacturing processes or products. This could restrict us from making, using, selling or exporting some of our products, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license intellectual property rights in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, any litigation, whether to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves against claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, could, regardless of the ultimate outcome, materially and adversely affect our operating results by requiring us to incur significant legal expenses and diverting the resources of the company and the attention of management. The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow our business. We rely heavily on the services of our key employees such as (i) Dean Personne, our President and Chief Executive Officer, (ii) John Supan, our Chief Financial Officer, (iii) Splendid Zuo, our Vice President and General Manager of Operations, (iv) Mary Chow, our Vice President of Supply Chain Management, and (v) Chris Buckley, our Vice President of Sales. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these and other key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering, technical and sales and marketing personnel. The competition for such personnel, particularly management and 15 Table of Contents technical personnel, is intense in our industry. Despite the incentives we provide, our current employees may not continue to work for us, and if additional personnel were required for our operations, we may not be able to obtain the services of additional personnel necessary for our growth. For instance, the departure of two of our sales executives in fiscal 2007 had adversely affected our sales performance. The loss of any of our key employees or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers, could delay the development and introduction of and have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products as well as our overall growth. We may engage in future acquisitions and we may be unable to successfully integrate these companies into our operations, which would adversely affect our business. As part of our growth strategy, we may make acquisitions in companies and/or businesses. Our industry is very competitive, and we believe that acquiring suitable companies and businesses will allow us to compete more effectively. The success of an acquisition would depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to identify suitable opportunities for acquisition; • our ability to reach an acquisition agreement on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all; • our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company or business; and • the economic, business or other strategic objectives and goals of the acquired company compared to those of our own. If we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, we may not be able to implement fully our business strategy to maintain or grow our business. We have in the past and may in the future, be party to legal proceedings that could have a negative financial impact on us. We have in the past been involved in litigation relating to securities and employment law, and are currently involved in litigation in Taiwan related to intellectual property, and in tax and labor disputes in the PRC. While these lawsuits and disputes vary greatly in the materiality of potential liability associated with them, the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved litigation could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation, whether material individually or in the aggregate. In particular, this uncertainty could harm our relationships with existing customers, our ability to obtain new customers and our ability to operate our business. Litigation and the resolution of disputes also could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Negative developments with respect to the litigation could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay if such litigation is not resolved in a favorable manner. For more information about the litigation, please see Item 3 entitled “Legal Proceedings.” A significant portion of our business is conducted in the Asia Pacific region. This concentration could expose us to risks inherent to doing business in the Asia Pacific region that could harm our business. A significant portion of our net sales are derived from sales to customers in the PRC, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, the Philippines and other countries in East and Southeast Asia, or the Asia Pacific region. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of shares of our common stock may be affected by: • economic and political instability; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays; 16 Table of Contents • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • currency convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; • the recurrence of SARS and other major health issues; • amounts we may pay, whether or not we are contractually required to do so, in the PRC on behalf of the Factory in Shenzhen for personal income taxes, interest and penalties that may be imposed by PRC tax authorities on the income of foreign workers who performed services in the Shenzhen Factory; • amounts we may pay, whether or not we are contractually required to do so, on behalf of the Factory in the PRC as a result of employees’ litigation against the Factory in Shenzhen; and • other risks relating to changes, administration or new interpretations of laws, regulations and policies in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. None of these factors are within our control. In fiscal 1999, many countries in the Asia Pacific region experienced considerable currency volatility and depreciation, high interest rates, stock market volatility and declining asset values which contributed to net foreign capital outflows, an increase in the number of insolvencies, a decline in business and consumer spending and a decrease in economic growth as compared with prior years. Consumer demand for products that use semiconductors, disk drives and electronic components generally rises as the overall level of economic activity increases and falls as such activity decreases. In addition, currency devaluations in the Asia Pacific region could result in accelerated price erosion of semiconductor and electronic products as products manufactured in countries whose currencies have devalued significantly against the US dollar become less expensive in US dollar terms. Any adverse effect on the global semiconductor, disk drive and electronic industries as a result of lower demand for products in the Asia Pacific region or accelerated product price erosion arising from currency devaluations in the Asia Pacific region could harm our financial condition or results of operations. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and there may be potential difficulties in protecting our shareholders’ rights. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and By-laws and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Bermuda. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our Board of Directors under Bermuda law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States and, therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions by our management, members of our Board of Directors or our principal shareholder than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. A decline in our stock price could result in securities class action litigation against us, which could divert management’s attention and harm our business. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Our stock price could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including: • variations in our actual or anticipated operating results; • sales of substantial amounts of our stock; • announcements about us or about our competitors, including technological innovation or new products or services; 17 Table of Contents • litigation and other developments relating to patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • conditions in the semiconductor, disk drive and electronic industries; • governmental regulation and legislation; • international political or economic events or developments, including those relating to Hong Kong and the PRC; • the recurrence of SARS and other major health issues; • amounts we may pay, whether or not we are contractually required to do so, in the PRC for personal income taxes, interest and penalties that may be imposed by PRC tax authorities on the income of foreign workers who performed services in the Shenzhen Factory; • amounts we may pay, whether or not we are contractually required to do so, on behalf of the Factory in the PRC as a result of employees’ litigation against the Factory; and • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our performance, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations recently. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market prices of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to furnish a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control, for fiscal 2008. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement and we have devoted, and will in the future devote, resources to remediate and improve our internal controls. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal controls, we are continuing to work to improve our internal controls. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, accounting policies affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised or are under review. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies have finalized changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles that require us, starting in our fiscal year 2007, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant and other equity incentive expensing that reduce our overall net income. For more information, please see Note 4 entitled “Non-cash Share-based Compensation”. In addition, since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change makes the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us, and therefore could make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 