Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to various risks. Management balances the Company’s strategic goals, including revenue and profitability objectives, with the associated risks. This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. Recent negative developments in the financial services sector and U.S. and global credit markets may negatively impact our operations and results. Unfavorable developments in the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the market values of the underlying collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been adversely impacted by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new legislation regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be aggressive in their response to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could impact our operations unfavorably by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and negatively impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may force a material change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. 5 Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. 6 There can be no assurance that the EESA and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA. The U.S. Treasury and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the CPP, in which the Company participated. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC’s TLGP. On February 10, 2009, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner announced the Financial Stability Plan, which earmarks the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates. In addition, ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions participating in the CPP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, as supplemented by the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the Financial Stability Plan and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA, ARRA and the Financial Stability Plan are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Our profitability depends on interest rates generally. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Due to significant competitive deposit pricing pressures in our markets and the negative impact of these pressures on our cost of funds, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the Federal Reserve Board’s federal funds rate (which is at a historically low rate as a result of the current recession), we have experienced compression to our core net interest margin throughout 2008. Because of these competitive pressures, we are unable to lower the rate that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities to the same extent and as quickly as the yields we charge on interest-earning assets. As a result, our net interest margin, and consequently our profitability, has been negatively impacted. If the Federal Reserve Board’s federal funds rate remains at extremely low levels, our asset sensitivity may continue to impact our net interest margin and results of operations in a negative manner. 7 Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets in which our Company operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Northern, Central and Western Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s business, real estate and construction loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could impact these local economic conditions and could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. Our continued growth may require the need for additional capital and further regulatory approvals which, if not obtained, could adversely impact our profitability and implementation of our current strategic initiatives. To ensure continued growth, we will need to provide sufficient capital to the Company through earnings generation, additional equity or trust preferred offerings or borrowed funds or any combination of these funding sources. For certain amounts or types of indebtedness, we may be required to obtain certain regulatory approvals beforehand. We recently received a $30 million preferred stock investment from the U.S. Treasury under the CPP. The terms of this investment provide incentives for us to replace this capital with other forms of Tier 1 capital from third parties as soon as practicable; however, our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand and grow our operations and attain our long-term profitability goals could be materially impacted. Our subsidiary bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent the Company requires such dividends in the future, may affect our ability to pay obligations and dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from the subsidiary bank, and thus does not have significant revenue sources of its own. We currently depend on the subsidiary bank’s cash and liquidity as well as dividends from our banking subsidiary to pay our operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the subsidiary bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends and that the Company will not require dividends from the subsidiary bank to satisfy the Company’s obligations. The availability of dividends from our subsidiary bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Company and other factors, that the Federal Reserve Board could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the subsidiary bank is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the subsidiary bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations and the subsidiary bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, it may not be able to service its obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the subsidiary bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Noncore funding represents a component of our funding base and disruptions in the capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits, we utilize several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta advances, Federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to supplement funding of the ongoing operations and growth of the Company. The availability of these noncore funding sources are subject to broad economic conditions and, as such, the pricing on these sources may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted at any point in time, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional needed liquidity. 8 In recent months, the financial media has disclosed that the nation’s Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) system may be under stress due to deterioration in the financial markets, particularly in relation to valuation of mortgage securities. Several FHLB institutions have announced impairment charges of these and other assets and as such their capital positions have deteriorated to the point that they may suspend dividend payments to their members. We are a member of the FHLB-Atlanta which has deferred declaring a dividend for the fourth quarter of 2008 and announced several other changes to preserve capital. Should financial conditions continue to weaken, the FHLB system (including FHLB-Atlanta) in the future may have to, not only defer or suspend dividend payments, but also curtail advances to member institutions like the Company. Should the FHLB system deteriorate to the point of not being able to fund future advances to banks, including the Company, this would place increased pressure on other wholesale funding sources. We impose certain internal limits as to the absolute level of noncore funding we will incur on our balance sheet at any point in time. Should we exceed those limitations, we may need to modify our growth plans, liquidate certain assets, participate loans to correspondents or execute other actions to allow for us to return to an acceptable level of noncore funding within a reasonable amount of time. Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that are not subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb estimated incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering current general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may cause our loan loss provision to vary widely from recent levels. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, it is an estimate subject to revision as losses are confirmed. Higher levels of loan losses in the future could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our loan losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. At December 31, 2008, approximately 37% and 50% of our $2.26 billion loans receivable portfolio were secured by commercial and residential real estate, respectively. Continued pressures on the real estate markets, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, the current recession in the national and local economies, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. 9 The Series A preferred stock reduces both net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. On December 18th, 2008 we closed on our agreement with the U.S. Treasury to participate in the Capital Purchase Program. As a part of that program we issued 30,000 shares of Series A preferred stock to the U. S. Treasury. During the period the shares of our Series A preferred stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, while the Treasury owns shares of the Series A preferred stock, we are not permitted to increase the level of cash dividends on our common stock without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A preferred Stock, may result in dilution to our earnings per share. The shares of our Series A preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation or dissolution. See Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), which is highly unlikely, the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. We depend on the services of our key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel may disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may identify a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting that may adversely affect our ability to properly account for non-routine transactions. As we have grown and expanded, we have acquired and added, and expect to continue to acquire and add, businesses and other activities that complement our core retail and commercial banking functions. Such acquisitions or additions frequently involve complex operational and financial reporting issues that can influence management’s internal control system. While we make every effort to thoroughly understand any new activity or acquired entity’s business processes, our planning for proper integration into our Company can give no assurance that we will not encounter operational and financial reporting difficulties impacting our controls over the Company. 10 While our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than stocks for larger companies quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Our business is technology dependent, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and results in reduced costs. During 2008, we made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create synergies in our operations through the use of technology, particularly in light of our past and projected growth strategy. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that our technological improvements will increase our operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 