Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) others will not develop technologies which are similar to, or can compete with, our unpatented proprietary technologies. If we cannot obtain patent or other protection for our proprietary technologies, our ability to compete in our markets could be impaired. Claims of intellectual property infringement by or against us could seriously harm our businesses. From time to time, we may be forced to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to defend or protect our rights or a customer's rights. These claims, regardless of merit, may consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays. Any of these factors could seriously harm our business and operating results. We may have to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties who claim infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may be costly to us. If we are unable to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with satisfactory terms, our business could suffer. In instances where we have had reason to believe that we may be infringing the patent rights of others, or that someone may be infringing our patent rights, we have asked our patent counsel to evaluate the validity of the patents in question, as well as the potentially infringing conduct. If we become involved in a dispute, neither the third parties nor the courts are bound by our counsel's conclusions. A substantial portion of our customers are located outside the U.S., which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. We have operated internationally for many years and expect to expand our international operations as necessary to continue expansion of our sales and service to our non-U.S. customers. Our foreign subsidiaries generated 15% and 16% of consolidated net revenues in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Net revenues from foreign customers totaled $27.4 million, or 66% of consolidated net revenues in 2014 and $26.1 million, or 66% of consolidated net revenues in 2013. We expect our net revenues from foreign customers will continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenues. However, in addition to the risks generally associated with sales and operations in the U.S., sales to customers outside the U.S. and operations in foreign countries are subject to additional risks, which may, in the future, affect our operations. These risks include: political and economic instability in foreign countries; the imposition of financial and operational controls and regulatory restrictions by foreign governments; the need to comply with a wide variety of U.S. and foreign import and export laws; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; trade restrictions; changes in tariffs and taxes; longer payment cycles; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and the greater difficulty of administering business abroad. A significant portion of our cash position is maintained overseas. While much of our cash is in the U.S., a significant portion is generated from and maintained by our foreign operations. As of December 31, 2014, $3.1 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if we are unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the U.S. to address our cash requirements or we are unable to efficiently and timely repatriate cash from overseas. Any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. If we are unable to repatriate the earnings of our subsidiaries it could have an adverse impact on our ability to redeploy earnings in other jurisdictions where they could be used more profitably. - 18 - inTEST CORPORATION FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 