Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as other information in our filings under the Exchange Act before making any investment decisions regarding our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. If events corresponding to any of these risks actually occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. When used in this annual report, unless otherwise indicated, “we,” “our” and “us” refers to VaxGen. We do not currently have capabilities to develop products or offer any services; the continuation of our business as a going concern is wholly dependent on our ability to identify and successfully complete a strategic transaction, and/or the sale of the Company’s assets which we may be unable to accomplish. We discontinued clinical development of our anthrax vaccine candidate, rPA102, after HHS terminated our SNS Contract in December 2006. In addition, in June 2007 we terminated our contract with the Chemo-Sero-Therapeutic Research Institute of Japan, or Kaketsuken, to develop a smallpox vaccine. We had previously devoted substantially all of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources toward the development of rPA102, and we have no product candidates in clinical or preclinical development. In connection with the termination of our clinical development of rPA102, we announced restructuring activities, including significant workforce reductions, and as a result have no remaining internal capability to discover or develop product candidates. Following the termination of our SNS Contract, we evaluated strategic alternatives and retained a financial advisor. As a result of this process, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Raven on November 12, 2007, which was subsequently terminated by mutual agreement on March 28, 2008 due to a lack of stockholder support. We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify alternate strategic transactions which will either provide us with a product pipeline or return value to our stockholders on a timely basis or at all. We also cannot predict whether any such transaction would be consummated on favorable terms, and anticipate that such transaction may require us to incur significant additional costs. We are unable to predict if the Company will be able to sell its remaining assets (principally, its manufacturing facility) or if such a sale can be consummated on favorable terms. We are also unable to predict if the Company will be able to assign, sub-lease or terminate the lease on the property containing its manufacturing facility, or if such actions can be consummated on favorable terms. If we are unable to identify and complete an alternate strategic transaction, our business will be liquidated. 5 Table of Contents We may use some or all of our remaining resources, including available cash, while we seek to identify a strategic transaction; we may fail to identify an appropriate transaction; our stockholders may vote against a proposed transaction; and even if a strategic transaction is completed, it may be unsuccessful in creating value for stockholders. As a result of the termination of our SNS Contract, we have been evaluating strategic alternatives since January 2007. In November 2007 we entered into a merger agreement with Raven, which was terminated in March 2008 due to a lack of stockholder support. The process of identifying, negotiating and seeking stockholder approval to the proposed Raven merger was time consuming and expensive. For example, we recorded $2.3 million of costs, primarily professional fees, related to the proposed merger with Raven, during the year ended December 31, 2008. We expect the process of identifying potential alternate strategic transactions will similarly be time-consuming and expensive, regardless of whether we are successful. We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify alternate strategic transactions which will either provide us with a pipeline or return value to our stockholders on a timely basis or at all. We also cannot predict whether any such transaction, once identified, would be approved by our stockholders or consummated on favorable terms. Significant ownership of our common stock is concentrated among several large stockholders and those stockholders may vote against a transaction, even if our board of directors and management view the transaction as beneficial. We may use a portion or all of our remaining resources seeking to identify and complete a strategic transaction, but ultimately be unable to do so. Even if completed, such a transaction may not provide us with a pipeline or return value to stockholders, and either outcome could cause our stockholders to lose some or all of their investment in our common stock. If we fail to identify and manage successfully any company or product acquisitions, joint ventures or in-licensed product candidates, we will be unable to rebuild our product candidate pipeline. Our prior product development programs were initiated through in-licensing or collaborative arrangements. These collaborations include licensing proprietary technology from, and other relationships with, biotechnology companies and government research institutes and organizations. As of the date of this annual report, we do not have any product candidates under development. As part of our business strategy, we intend to expand our product pipeline and capabilities through company or product acquisitions, merging or in-licensing. Any such activities will be accompanied by certain risks including: • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • the difficulty and expense of integrating operations and personnel of acquired companies; and • possible dilution to stockholders. If our competitors successfully enter into partnering or license agreements or we are unable to reach agreement on license or partnering agreements on terms acceptable to us, we may then be precluded from pursuing those specific opportunities. Since each of these opportunities is unique, we may not be able to find a substitute. If we are unable to identify and manage successfully any acquisitions, joint ventures, in-licenses or other collaboration opportunities, we will be unable to develop new products and rebuild our product pipeline. We may need to raise additional capital to support our operations and in order to continue as a going concern if we successfully complete a strategic transaction. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December 31, 2008 will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through at least December 31, 2009. In addition to our workforce reductions, the termination of our rPA102 and smallpox development activities and the sale of our assets related to rPA102, we are exploring strategic alternatives. Our restructuring measures implemented to date and any future transactions may disappoint investors and further depress the price of our common stock and the value of an investment in our common stock, thereby limiting our ability to raise additional funds or consummate a strategic transaction. We will require substantial funds to conduct development activities if we acquire additional products or companies or consummate a strategic transaction. Our ability to conduct the required development activities related to any new product candidates will be significantly limited if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital. We may seek to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs. We do not know, however, whether additional financing will be available when needed, or whether it will be available on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain adequate financing also may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. 6 Table of Contents As a result of the reductions in our workforce that we announced throughout 2007 and 2008, we may not be successful in retaining key employees and in attracting qualified new employees as required in the future. If we are unable to retain our management or to attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to rebuild our business will be seriously jeopardized. Several times during 2007 and 2008 we implemented restructurings resulting in the reduction of our workforce. As of December 31, 2008, we had only three employees. Competition among biotechnology companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals will be critical to our success if we rebuild our business. Our ability to recruit new employees may be diminished as a result of the restructurings we have implemented. If we rebuild our business and need to recruit qualified personnel, including scientific staff and scientific advisors, we may be unable to attract or retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. We have only a limited operating history and we expect to continue to generate operating losses. To date, we have engaged primarily in research, development and clinical testing. Since our inception in 1995, our operations have not been profitable, and we cannot be certain that we will ever achieve or sustain operating profitability. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $267.2 million. Developing any future product candidates will require significant additional research and development, including non-clinical testing and clinical trials, as well as regulatory approval. We expect these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, to result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. We may fail to protect any intellectual property that we acquire in the future and future activities of the company may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, either of which could harm our business. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be prevented from developing or marketing our product candidates. To the extent that we may acquire intellectual property and resume operations, we will rely on patent and other intellectual property protection to prevent our competitors from manufacturing and marketing our future product candidates, if any. Technology that we may acquire or license in the future, if any, will be protected from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, or effectively maintained as trade secrets and exclusively licensed to us. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope and breadth of patent claims that may be afforded to other companies’ patents. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we initiate these suits, even in such instances in which the outcome is favorable to us. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • we or any of our current or future licensors will adequately protect trade secrets; or • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or the patents of others will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that patents issued to us in the future, if any, or that we may license in the future, if any, will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. In addition, we cannot assure you that our future operations or technology, if any, will not infringe intellectual property rights of others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office keeps United States patent applications confidential while the applications are pending. As a result, we cannot determine which inventions third parties claim in pending patent applications that they have filed. We may need to engage in litigation to defend or enforce any future patent or license rights held by us or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. If we infringe the intellectual property of others, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to use the technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain licenses could force us to cease development or sale of a product candidate. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, may damage our facilities. Our corporate and manufacturing facilities are primarily located in California. Our facilities in California are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. As a result, our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as fires, floods and similar events. Although we maintain general business insurance against fires and some general business interruptions, there can be no assurance that the scope or amount of coverage will be adequate in any particular case. 7 Table of Contents We are defendants in a lawsuit which, if successful, could result in liability by us for significant damages and the loss of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility in South San Francisco. On February 5, 2009, the landlord of our premises located at 349 Oyster Point Boulevard, South San Francisco, California filed a complaint against us in the Superior Court of California for the County of San Mateo alleging breach of contract and termination of our lease, seeking a writ of attachment and a temporary protective order, for which a hearing was held on February 6, 2009. Our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility is located in the leased premises that are the subject of the dispute. At the February 6, 2009 hearing, the court denied the writ and the temporary protective order sought by landlord. The parties are currently in discussions to achieve an amicable resolution to the matters alleged in the complaint and a negotiated termination of the lease. However, if necessary, we intend to vigorously defend against such allegations. If the landlord is ultimately successful in its complaint, we may be liable for significant damages in connection with the alleged early termination of the lease and may lose assets related to the biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility we have constructed within the leased premises, which could have a material adverse effect on the our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our use of hazardous materials and chemicals require us to comply with regulatory requirements and exposes us to potential liabilities. We currently have at our facilities hazardous materials and chemicals acquired as the result of our past research and development activities. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for significant damages or fines. These damages could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance coverage. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future. We may become subject to product liability claims, which could result in damages that exceed our insurance coverage. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with product candidates previously tested in human clinical trials. We may become subject to a product liability suit if any product candidate we tested causes injury, or if individuals subsequently become infected or otherwise suffer adverse effects from our product candidates. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. We maintained product liability insurance, including clinical trial liability, in the amount of $10.0 million for our programs up until March 2007, when our programs were suspended. We have an extended reporting period for claims that may arise under this coverage. We cannot be certain that additional insurance coverage, if required, could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be subject to claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We are not currently listed on a national exchange and there can be no assurance we will ever be listed. As a result of our failure to make timely filings of financial statements, we were delisted from Nasdaq, and our common stock is not currently listed on any national stock exchange. We have completed all delinquent filings with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, but we have not yet applied for our common stock to be listed on a national exchange. We do not know when, if ever, this will be completed, and thus, whether our common stock will ever be listed. In addition, we cannot be certain that Nasdaq will approve our stock for relisting or that any other exchange will approve our stock for listing. In order to be eligible for relisting or listing, we must meet Nasdaq’s or another exchange’s initial listing criteria, including a minimum per share price. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol VXGN.OB. Our stockholders could experience substantial dilution as a result of the issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock. Our board of directors has the authority to establish the designation of almost 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock that are convertible into common stock without any action by our stockholders, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares. In February 2006, we raised net proceeds of $25.2 million through a private placement of 3.5 million shares of common stock at $7.70 per share to a group of accredited institutional investors. We also issued to the investors five-year warrants initially exercisable to purchase 698,637 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $9.24 per share. Because we did not file all of our delinquent periodic reports with the SEC by January 31, 2007, the warrants became exercisable for an additional 698,630 shares of common stock, at a price of $9.24 per share. We may raise additional funds through public or private offerings of our preferred stock or our common stock, or through issuance of debt securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or conversion of preferred stock or debt securities into shares of common stock, would further dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders. 8 Table of Contents Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock. Shares of our common stock issued in a private placement in February 2006 were registered for resale under a registration statement, which was declared effective by the SEC in February 2008. In addition, pursuant to Rule 144, generally, a non-affiliated stockholder who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell restricted securities without any limitation. Certain of those stockholders who purchased shares of our common stock in our November 2004 and February 2006 private placements are eligible to conduct sales under Rule 144. Any substantial sale of our common stock under effective resale registration statement or pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. Currently, our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks traded OTC typically are subject to greater volatility than stocks traded on stock exchanges, such as the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market, due to the fact that OTC trading volumes are generally significantly less than those on stock exchanges. This lower volume may allow a relatively few number of stock trades to greatly affect the stock price. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. For example, between August 9, 2004 and December 31, 2008, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $18.55 per share to a low of $0.33 per share. Our stock price could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • timing and consistency of filing financial statements; • announcements or speculation about any strategic transactions we may enter into; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and our failure to meet or exceed such estimates; • rumors about our business prospects, product development efforts or the progress, timing and completion of our clinical trials; • issuances of debt or equity securities; • issuances of securities or the expectation of the issuance of securities as part of a merger or other strategic transaction; • actual or expected sales by our stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants; • developments in or the outcome of litigation against the Company, including an ongoing dispute regarding our leased premises at 349 Oyster Point Boulevard, South San Francisco, California; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. If we face securities litigation in the future, even if it is without merit or unsuccessful, it would result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have no history of paying dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance our growth. If we decide to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock, such dividends may not be paid on a timely basis. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of VaxGen. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock. Our charter and by-laws also provide that special stockholders meetings may be called only by our Chairman of the board of directors, by our Secretary at the written request of the chairman or by our board of directors, with the result that any third-party takeover not supported by the board of directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Table of Contents 