Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) A significant portion of our cash position is maintained overseas. While much of our cash is in the U.S., a significant portion is generated from and maintained by our foreign operations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if we are unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the U.S. to address our cash requirements or we are unable to efficiently and timely repatriate cash from overseas. Any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. If we are unable to repatriate the earnings of our subsidiaries it could have an adverse impact on our ability to redeploy earnings in other jurisdictions where they could be used more profitably. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs of compliance with such laws and regulations. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. Additional recent changes and future changes in securities regulations are expected to continue to affect our costs. We are continuing to evaluate and monitor regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. The inability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement that law require us to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K a report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During our assessment process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we may be unable to assert that our internal control is effective. While our assessment (as reported in Item 9A of this Report) is that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011, the effectiveness of our internal control in future periods cannot be assured, and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may deteriorate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of any future date, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 