ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that you should be aware of, some of which are described below. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described in these risk factors are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the risks, uncertainties and other factors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or product market share and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. Risks of Market Dynamics Disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit. We may seek or need to raise additional funds. Our ability to obtain financing for general corporate and commercial purposes or acquisitions depends on our operating and financial performance, and is also subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. The global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented uncertainty and weakness as a result of the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions. Governments in the U.S. and elsewhere have intervened in the banking industry at unprecedented levels. As a result of such disruption, our ability to raise capital may be severely restricted and the cost of raising capital through such markets or privately may increase significantly at a time when we would like, or need, to do so. Any of these events could have an impact on our flexibility to fund our business operations, make capital expenditures, pursue additional expansion or acquisition opportunities, or make another discretionary use of cash and could adversely impact our financial results. In any case, there can be no assurance that such funds, if available at all, can be obtained on terms reasonable to us. We are exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivables. This risk is heightened in times of economic weakness. We are exposed to credit risk in our accounts receivable, and this risk is heightened in times of economic weakness. We distribute our products both through third-party resellers and directly to certain customers and a 18 Table of Contents majority of our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. We may not be able to monitor and limit our exposure to credit risk on our trade and non-trade receivables, and we may not be effective in limiting credit risk and avoiding losses. Continuing disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact customers and customer spending patterns. Continuing disruption in the global financial markets as a result of ongoing global economic weakness or uncertainty may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and low consumer confidence. Accordingly, demand for our products could fail to grow or could decrease and differ materially from our current expectations. In addition, some of our customers may require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us, or possible insolvencies of our customers, could result in decreased customer demand, an impaired ability for us to collect on outstanding accounts receivable, significant delays in accounts receivable payments, and significant write-offs of accounts receivable, each of which could adversely impact our financial results. Disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact our suppliers. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components or products from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent for any reason, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, each of which would adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our products are competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology. Additionally, the demand for higher security environments including rapid certified identity authentication has led to new standards driving the need for new technology solutions. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products and solutions include: • the extent to which products and systems must support evolving industry standards and provide interoperability; • the extent to which standards are widely adopted and product and system interoperability is required within industry segments; • the extent to which products are differentiated based on technical features, quality and reliability, ease of use, strength of distribution channels and price; • the ability of suppliers to quickly develop new products and integrated solutions to satisfy new market and customer requirements; • the total cost of ownership including installation, maintenance and expansion capability of systems; and • the ability to productize custom solutions for common customer requests. We currently experience competition from a number of companies in each of our target market segments and we believe that competition in our markets is likely to intensify as a result of anticipated increased demand for identity management solutions and secure identification products. We may not be successful in competing against offerings from other companies and could lose business as a result. 19 Table of Contents We also experience indirect competition from certain of our customers who currently offer alternative products or solutions or are expected to introduce competitive offerings in the future. For example, in our SCM Microsystems business, we sell our products to OEMs who incorporate our products into their offerings or who resell our products in order to provide a more complete solution to their customers. If our OEM customers develop their own products to replace ours, this would result in a loss of sales to those customers, as well as increased competition for our products in the marketplace. In addition, these OEM customers could cancel outstanding orders for our products, which could cause us to write down inventory already designated for those customers. In our Hirsch business, many of our dealer channel partners act as system integrators, providing installation and service, and therefore carry competitive lines of products and systems. This is a common practice within the industry as the integrators need access to multiple lines in order to support all potential service and user requirements. Depending on the technical competence of their sales forces, comfort level of their technical staff with our systems and price pressure from customers, these integrators may choose to offer a competitive system. There is also business pressure to provide some level of sales to all vendors to maintain access to a range of products and systems. We may, in the future, face competition from these and other parties that develop secure identification products based upon approaches similar to or different from those employed by us. In addition, the market for secure identification products and solutions may ultimately be dominated by approaches other than the approach marketed by us. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products or solutions and may be able to deliver competitive products or solutions at a lower end user price. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products or solutions to address the needs of our prospective customers. Therefore, new competitors, or alliances among competitors, may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Strategic Risks Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with technological change and meet the needs of our target markets and customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the need to meet market requirements and to differentiate our products and solutions through technological enhancements, and in some cases, price. Our customers’ needs change, new technologies are introduced into the market, and industry standards continue to evolve. As a result, product life cycles are often short and difficult to predict, and frequently we must develop new products quickly in order to remain competitive in light of new market requirements. Rapid changes in technology, or the adoption of new industry standards, could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Changes in market requirements could render our existing solutions obsolete or could require us to expend more on research and development efforts. For example, a significant portion of our revenues results from the sale of access control panels that include certain design elements that are more than a decade old. These controllers are typically used in a network architecture that may become outdated or obsolete. If a product is deemed to be obsolete or unmarketable, then we might have to reduce revenue expectations or write down inventories for that product. We may also lose market share. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and solutions and to develop and introduce new offerings with clearly differentiated benefits that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and that keep pace with technological developments, new competitive product offerings and emerging industry standards. We must be able to demonstrate that our products have 20 Table of Contents features or functions that are clearly differentiated from existing or anticipated competitive offerings, or we may be unsuccessful in selling these products. Our failure to develop, manufacture, launch and sell next-generation security products and solutions could significantly affect our financial performance. In addition, in cases where we are selected to supply products or solutions based on features or capabilities that are still under development, we must be able to complete our design, delivery and implementation process on a timely basis, or risk losing current and any future revenue from those offerings. In developing our offerings, we must collaborate closely with our customers, suppliers and other strategic partners to ensure that critical development, marketing and distribution projects proceed in a coordinated manner. Also, this collaboration is important because these relationships increase our exposure to information necessary to anticipate trends and plan product development. If any of our current relationships terminate or otherwise deteriorate, or if we are unable to enter into future alliances that provide us with comparable insight into market trends, our product development and marketing efforts may be adversely affected, and we could lose sales. We expect that our product development efforts will continue to require substantial investments and we may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. In some cases, we depend upon partners who provide one or more components of the overall solution for a customer in conjunction with our products. If our partners do not adapt their products and technologies to new market or distribution requirements, or if their products do not work well, then we may not be able to sell our products into certain markets. Because we operate in markets for which industry-wide standards have not yet been fully set, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. If any of the standards supported by us do not achieve or sustain market acceptance, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Sales of our products depend on the development of emerging applications in our target markets and on diversifying and expanding our customer base in new markets and geographic regions, and with new products. We sell our products primarily to address emerging applications that have not yet reached a stage of mass adoption or deployment. For example, we sell our smart card readers for use in various smart card-based security programs in Europe, such as electronic driver’s licenses, national IDs and e-passports, which are applications that are not yet widely implemented. In our Multicard business, our solutions are used in various identity management programs in Europe, such as transit, payments, ticketing, national and regional IDs and stadiums, which are applications that are not yet widely implemented. We are also focused on expanding sales of professional services, identity management and RFID products and solutions. The market for some of these solutions is at an early stage of development. Additionally, we have a strategy of expanding sales of existing product lines into new geographic markets and diversifying and expanding our customer base, for example expanding sales of our smart card readers to address authentication programs in the government and enterprise sectors in Asia and increasing sales of our Multicard RFID solutions to address programs utilizing mobile phones. Because the markets for our products and solutions are still emerging, demand for our offerings is subject to variability from period to period. There is no assurance that demand will become more predictable as additional security and RFID programs demonstrate success. If demand for products and solutions to enable identity management applications does not develop further and grow sufficiently, our revenue and gross profit margins could decline or fail to grow. We cannot predict the future growth rate, if any, or size or composition of the market for any of our offerings. Our target markets have not consistently grown or developed as quickly as we have expected, and we have experienced delays in the development of new products designed to take advantage of new market opportunities. Since new target markets are still evolving, it is difficult to assess the competitive environment or the size of the market that may develop. The demand and market acceptance for our offerings, as 21 Table of Contents is common for new technologies, is subject to high levels of uncertainty and risk and may be influenced by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • general economic conditions, for example economic uncertainty; • our ability to demonstrate to our potential customers and partners the value and benefits of new products; • the ability of our competitors to develop and market competitive solutions for emerging applications in our target markets and our ability to win business in advance of and against such competition; • the adoption and/or continuation of industry or government regulations or policies requiring the use of products or solutions such as our smart card readers or access control solutions; • the timing of large scale security programs involving smart cards, RFID and related technology by governments, banks and enterprises; and • the ability of financial institutions, corporate enterprises, the U.S. government and other governments to agree on industry specifications and to develop and deploy security applications that will drive demand for products and solutions such as ours. Our acquisition strategy and strategic investments expose us to significant risks. A significant component of our ongoing business strategy is to seek to buy businesses, products and technologies that complement or augment our existing businesses, products and technologies. This acquisition strategy exposes us to significant risks, including possible dilution of stockholder value, disruption to our business, difficulty in integrating acquired businesses and failure to realize the benefits we expect from strategic transactions. Occurrence of any of these risks could harm our operating results. Integrating acquired businesses into our business exposes us to certain risks. The combination of companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of the acquired companies. The integration process may divert the attention of our executive officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt our businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full benefits expected from the transactions. Failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating another company’s operations with ours or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of our combined company and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the integration of acquired companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and loss of customer relationships, and may cause our stock price to decline. Any future acquisition could expose us to additional significant risks, including, without limitation: • the use of our limited cash balance or potentially dilutive stock offerings to fund such acquisitions; • costs of any necessary financing, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • accounting charges we might incur in connection with such acquisitions; • the difficulty and expense of integrating personnel, technologies, customer, supplier and distributor relationships, marketing efforts and facilities acquired through acquisitions; • integrating internal controls over financial reporting; discovering and correcting deficiencies in internal controls and other regulatory compliance, data adequacy and integrity, product quality and product liabilities; • diversion of management resources; • failure to realize anticipated the benefits of the acquisition; 22 Table of Contents • costly fees for legal and transaction-related services; and • the unanticipated assumption of liabilities. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful with any such acquisition. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also lead to substantial increases in non-current assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we have in the past acquired or made, and from time to time in the future may acquire or make, investments in companies, products and technologies that we believe are complementary to our existing businesses, products and technologies. These investments may not yield positive results. For example, on October 1, 2008, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with TranZfinity, Inc., a privately held entity, pursuant to which we purchased 33.7% of the outstanding shares of TranZfinity common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $2.5 million. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we determined that the value of our investment in TranZfinity was impaired and we recorded a charge for the impairment to write-off 100% of our investment and our proportionate losses realized by TranZfinity of $2.2 million. We may not recognize anticipated benefits from the strategic disposition or divestiture of portions of our business. Our business strategy also contemplates divesting portions of our business from time to time, if and when we believe we would be able to realize greater value for our stockholders in so doing. We have in the past sold, and may from time to time in the future sell, all or one or more portions of our business. Any divestiture or disposition could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, costly fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; loss of key personnel; and reduction in revenue. Further, we may be required to retain or indemnify the buyer against certain liabilities and obligations in connection with any such divestiture or disposition and we may also become subject to third-party claims arising out of such divestiture or disposition. In addition, we may not achieve the expected price in a divestiture transaction. Failure to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Operational Risks We have incurred and will incur significant expenses as a result of our acquisition strategy, which reduces the amount of capital available to fund our business. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to our acquisition strategy, including our acquisition of Hirsch in April 2009, our business combination with Bluehill ID in January 2010, our acquisitions of RockWest in April 2010 and Smartag in November 2010 and possible future acquisitions. These expenses include investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and mailing of stockholder materials, integration and other costs, as well as past and possible future outlays of cash. There may also be unanticipated costs related to our acquisition strategy on an ongoing basis, including expenditures on acquisition opportunities that do not result in completed transactions. As a result, the capital available to fund our activities has been and is expected to be further reduced. If we are unsuccessful in securing sufficient sales from established markets or in generating sufficient new revenues from emerging markets, then we would likely continue to require cash to fund our operations. The remaining cash available to us might not be adequate in subsequent years. We currently expect that our current capital resources and available borrowings should be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements at least through the end of 2011. We may, however, seek additional debt or equity financing prior to that time. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. The sale of additional debt or equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders. 23 Table of Contents A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, which are reviewed on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment is determined. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common stock, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or a decline of our business related to acquired companies. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. We have incurred operating losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of losses. In the future, we may not be able to achieve expected results, including any guidance or outlook we may provide from time to time; we may continue to incur losses and we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. Our quarterly and annual operating results fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied greatly in the past and will likely vary greatly in the future depending upon a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our revenues, gross profit and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to, among other things: • business and economic conditions overall and in our markets; • the timing and amount of orders we receive from our customers that may be tied to budgetary cycles, seasonal demand, product plans or program roll-out schedules; • cancellations or delays of customer orders or the loss of a significant customer; • our ability to obtain an adequate supply of components on a timely basis; • poor quality in the supply of our components; • delays in the manufacture of our products; • the absence of significant backlog in our business; • our inventory levels; • our customer and indirect sales channel inventory levels and product returns; • competition; • new product announcements or introductions; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, if at all; • our ability to successfully market and sell our products and solutions into new geographic or market segments; • the sales volume, product configuration and mix of offerings that we sell; • technological changes in the markets for our products and solutions; • the rate of adoption of industry-wide standards; • reductions in the average selling prices that we are able to charge due to competition or other factors; 24 Table of Contents • strategic acquisitions, sales and dispositions; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; • the timing and amount of marketing and research and development expenditures; • loss of key personnel; and • costs related to events such as dispositions, organizational restructuring, headcount reductions, litigation or write-off of investments or goodwill. Due to these and other factors, our revenues may not increase or even remain at their current levels. Because a majority of our operating expenses are fixed, a small variation in our revenues can cause significant variations in our operational results from quarter to quarter and our operating results may vary significantly in future periods. Therefore, our historical results may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. It is difficult to estimate operating results prior to the end of a quarter. In our ID Management business, sales tend to be relatively linear (regularly spaced throughout the quarter), as orders are tied to projects with relatively predictable timelines. In our ID Products business, the largest component of revenue in any given quarter is sales of smart card reader technology. Historically, many of our smart card reader customers have tended to make a significant portion of their purchases towards the end of the quarter, in part because they believe they are able to negotiate lower prices and more favorable terms. As a result, smart card reader revenue in any quarter depends on contracts entered into or orders booked and shipped in that quarter. This makes it difficult to predict revenues both in our smart card reader business, and for the company overall. Across both our segments, the timing of closing larger orders increases the risk of quarter-to-quarter fluctuation in revenues. If orders forecasted for a specific group of customers for a particular quarter are not realized or revenues are not otherwise recognized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we may experience unexpected increases or decreases in demand for our products resulting from fluctuations in our customers’ budgets, purchasing patterns or deployment schedules. These occurrences are not always predictable and can have a significant impact on our results in the period in which they occur. If we do not accurately anticipate the correct mix of products that will be sold, we may be required to record charges related to excess inventories. Due to the unpredictable nature of the demand for our products, we are required to place orders with our suppliers for components, finished products and services in advance of actual customer commitments to purchase these products. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could result in costly excess production or inventories. In order to minimize the negative financial impact of excess production, we may be required to significantly reduce the sales price of the product to increase demand, which in turn could result in a reduction in the value of the original inventory purchase. If we were to determine that we could not utilize or sell this inventory, we may be required to write down its value, which we have done in the past. Writing down inventory or reducing product prices could adversely impact our cost of revenues and financial condition. We may choose to take back unsold inventory from our customers. If demand is less than anticipated, our distribution customers may ask that we accept returned products that they do not believe they can sell. We do not have a policy relating to product returns for the majority of our products. However, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relations with our customers. If we were to accept product returns, we may be required to take additional inventory reserves to reflect the decreased market value of slow-selling returned inventory, even if the products are in good working order. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and additional delays could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. In much of our business, the initial sales cycle for a new customer usually takes a minimum of six to nine months, and even in the case of established customers, it may take up to a year for us to receive approval for a given purchase from the customer. During this sales cycle, we may expend substantial financial and managerial resources with no assurance that a sale will ultimately result. The length of a new customer’s sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control. These factors include the customer’s product and technical requirements and the level of competition we face for that customer’s business. Any delays in the sales cycle for new customers could delay or reduce our receipt of new revenue and could cause us to expend more resources to obtain new customer wins. If we are unsuccessful in managing sales cycles, our business could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales typically comes from a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers or variability in the timing of orders could negatively impact our operating results. Sales to a relatively small number of customers historically have accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues. We believe that the addition of customers and markets from our Hirsch, Bluehill ID, RockWest and Smartag acquisitions has improved the diversity of our customer base and reduced our reliance on a small number of customers in our business overall. However, in our ID Products business, we expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of sales in any given period, for the foreseeable future. The loss of a customer or reduction of orders from a significant customer, including those due to product performance issues, changes in customer buying patterns, or market, economic or competitive conditions in our market segments, could significantly lower our revenues in any period and would increase our dependence on a smaller group of our remaining customers. Variations in the timing or patterns of customer orders could also increase our dependence on other customers in any particular period. Dependence on a small number of customers and variations in order levels period to period could result in decreased revenues, decreased margins, and/or inventory or receivables write-offs and otherwise harm our business and operating results. Our business could be adversely affected by significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of governments and governmental entities. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from indirect sales to U.S. federal, state and local governments and government agencies, as well as from subcontracts under federal government prime contracts. Large government programs are a primary target for our ID Management business, as higher security systems employing smart card, RFID or other access control technologies are increasingly used to enable applications ranging from authorizing building and network access for federal employees to paying taxes online, to citizen identification, to receiving health care. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to be influenced by our successful procurement of government business either directly or through our indirect sales channels. Accordingly, changes in government purchasing policies or government budgetary constraints could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could adversely affect our government-related business are: • changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding or grants; • changes in government programs or applicable requirements; • delays in developing technology standards; • the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations pertaining to security; • changes in political or social attitudes with respect to security or electronic identification issues; • potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and • delays in the payment of its invoices by government payment offices. 26 Table of Contents These and other factors could cause governments and governmental agencies to reduce their purchases or to defer or cancel new identity management programs that might have utilized our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our government end customers are subject to stringent budgetary constraints. The award of additional orders from government agencies could be adversely affected by existing or future spending reduction efforts or budget cutbacks at these agencies. For example, over the past several quarters, purchases of our SCM Microsystems external smart card readers for use by U.S. government agencies have been significantly lower than in previous periods, due to ongoing project and budget delays, which were in part related to the change in presidential administration, and a movement by the U.S. government towards purchasing computer equipment with embedded reader capabilities. We continue to believe that we remain a leading supplier of smart card reader technology to the U.S. government market and that we are not losing share to competitors. However, lower overall market demand and the replacement of external smart card reader sales with sales of lower-priced interface chips for embedded readers is a trend that we do not believe will reverse. We anticipate that an increasingly significant portion of our future revenues will come from government programs outside the U.S., such as national identity, e-government, e-health and others applications. We currently supply smart card readers, RFID stickers and identity management solutions for various government programs in Europe and Asia and are actively targeting additional programs in these areas as well as in Latin America. However, the timing of government smart card programs is not always certain and delays in program implementation are common. For example, while the German government had stated that it planned to distribute new electronic health cards to its citizens beginning in early 2009 and to put in place a corresponding network and card reader infrastructure during 2009, there have been significant delays in this program and as a result our anticipated sales of eHealth terminals for this program have not materialized. The delay of government projects in any country for any reason could negatively impact our sales. Fluctuations in the valuation of foreign currencies could impact costs and/or revenues we disclose in U.S. dollars, and could result in foreign currency losses. A significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies, principally the euro. The portion of our business conducted in foreign currencies has increased since the Bluehill ID business combination as the Bluehill ID businesses conduct more than 95% of their business outside the U.S. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will continue to cause currency exchange gains and losses. If a significant portion of operating expenses are incurred in a foreign currency such as the euro, and revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, exchange rate fluctuations might have a positive or negative net financial impact on these transactions, depending on whether the U.S. dollar devalues or revalues compared to the euro. In addition, the valuation of current assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency can result in currency exchange gains and losses. For example, when one of our subsidiaries uses the euro as the functional currency, and this subsidiary has a receivable in U.S. dollars, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the euro of 10% would result in a foreign exchange loss of the reporting entity of 10% of the value of the underlying U.S. dollar receivable. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future quarterly and annual operating results. The effect of currency exchange rate changes may increase or decrease our costs and/or revenues in any given quarter, and we may experience currency losses in the future. To date, we have not adopted a hedging program to protect against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. We derive a substantial portion of revenue through the sale of Hirsch solutions for U.S. government programs that involve competitive bidding and may be subject to significant delay, which may produce volatility in our revenues and earnings. In our Hirsch business a substantial portion of revenues are related to orders received from government agencies through our indirect channel partners, and to a lesser extent, from direct sales governed by pricing as 27 Table of Contents published in the General Services Administration (“GSA”) schedules. Government orders are frequently awarded only after a formal competitive bidding process, which typically is protracted and dependent upon necessary funds being available to the public agency. We may not be awarded orders for which we bid directly and our dealers may not be successful in their bids that would utilize our offerings. In some cases, unsuccessful bidders for government agency orders are provided the opportunity to formally protest certain order awards through various agency, administrative and judicial channels. The protest process may substantially delay a successful bidder’s award or result in cancellation of the order entirely. Furthermore, local government agency awards may be contingent upon availability of matching funds from federal or state entities and law enforcement and other government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints. Any of these factors can make it difficult to predict our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results. Our U.S. government business is dependent upon receipt of certain governmental approvals or certifications, and failure to receive such approvals or certifications could have a material adverse effect on our sales in those market segments for which such approvals or certifications are customary or required. While we are not able to quantify the amount of sales made to the U.S. government due to the indirect nature of our selling process, we believe that orders for U.S. government agencies represent a significant portion of our revenues. Failing to obtain certain government approvals or certifications could have a material adverse effect in those environments for which such approvals or certifications are customary or required. As newer versions of existing products, or new products in development, are released, they may require certifications or approvals. In addition, the U.S. government may introduce new requirements that some existing products will be required to meet. If we fail to obtain any required approvals or certifications for our products, our business will suffer. Our business could be adversely affected by negative audits by government agencies; we could be required to reimburse the U.S. government for costs that we have expended on government orders; and our ability to compete successfully for future orders could be materially impaired. Government agencies may audit our business as part of their routine audits and investigations of government orders. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance on orders, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These agencies may also review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our own internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. If any of our costs are found to be improperly allocated to a specific order, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed for such order may have to be refunded. An audit could materially affect our business’ competitive position and result in a material adjustment to our financial results or statement of operations. If a government agency audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of orders, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the federal government. In addition, our business could suffer serious harm to its reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. While our business has never had a negative audit by a governmental agency, we cannot assure you that one will not occur. If we were suspended or barred from supplying solutions to the federal government generally, or if our reputation or relationships with our distribution channel or government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenues and prospects would be materially harmed. A significant portion of our sales is made through an indirect sales channel, and the loss of dealers, systems integrators, resellers, or other channel partners could result in decreased revenue. We currently use an indirect sales channel that includes dealers, systems integrators, value added resellers and resellers to sell a significant portion of our products and solutions, primarily into markets or customers where 28 Table of Contents the channel partner may have closer relationships or greater access than we do. Some of these channel partners also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our competitors’ products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our sales to suffer. Indirect selling arrangements are intended to benefit both us and the channel partner, and may be long- or short-term relationships, depending on market conditions, competition in the marketplace and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective indirect sales channels, there could be a reduction in the amount of product we are able to sell, and our revenues could decrease. Our business could suffer if our third-party manufacturers cannot meet production requirements. Many of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. by contract manufacturers. Our reliance on foreign manufacturing poses a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing; • currency fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • export controls; • political and economic instability; • lack of control over the manufacturing process and ultimately over the quality of our products; • late delivery of our products, whether because of limited access to our product components, transportation delays and interruptions, difficulties in staffing, or disruptions such as natural disasters; • capacity limitations of our manufacturers, particularly in the context of new large contracts for our products, whether because our manufacturers lack the required capacity or are unwilling to produce the quantities we desire; and • obsolescence of our hardware products at the end of the manufacturing cycle. The use of contract manufacturing requires us to exercise strong planning and management in order to ensure that our products are manufactured on schedule, to correct specifications and to a high standard of quality. If any of our contract manufacturers cannot meet our production requirements, we may be required to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers. We may be unable to identify or qualify new contract manufacturers in a timely manner or at all or with reasonable terms and these new manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of our products from our current or alternative manufacturers would materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, if we are not successful at managing the contract manufacturing process, the quality of our products could be jeopardized or inventories could be too low or too high, which could result in damage to our reputation with our customers and in the marketplace, as well as possible write-offs of excess inventory. We have a limited number of suppliers of key components, and may experience difficulties in obtaining components for which there is significant demand. We rely upon a limited number of suppliers for some key components of our products. For example, we currently utilize the foundry services of external suppliers to produce our ASICs for smart cards readers and inlays, and we use chips and antenna components from third-party suppliers in our contactless smart card readers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers may expose us to various risks including, without limitation, an 29 Table of Contents inadequate supply of components, price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality. In addition, some of the basic components used in our reader products, such as semiconductors, may at any time be in great demand. This could result in components not being available to us in a timely manner or at all, particularly if larger companies have ordered more significant volumes of those components, or in higher prices being charged for components. For example, limited availability of certain semiconductor chips used in our TagStar and SCM Microsystems products had a negative impact in our sales during 2010. Disruption or termination of the supply of components or software used in our products could delay shipments of our products. These delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Security breaches in systems we sell or maintain could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity. Many of the systems we sell manage private personal information and protect information involved in sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business as a result of negative publicity and could prevent us from having further access to such systems or other similarly sensitive areas for other governmental clients. As part of our technical support services, we agree, from time to time, to possess all or a portion of the security system database of our customers. This service is subject to a number of risks. For example, our systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins and service disruptions that could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could be very expensive to correct, could damage our reputation and could discourage potential customers from using our services. Although we have not experienced attempted break-ins, we may experience such attempts in the future. Our systems may also be affected by outages, delays and other difficulties. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. Failure to properly manage the implementation of customer projects in our business may result in costs or claims against us, and our financial results could be adversely affected. In our business, deployments of our solutions often involve large-scale projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage relationships with our customers and to effectively manage the implementation of our solutions in such projects and to deploy appropriate resources, including our own project managers and third-party subcontractors, in a timely manner. Any defects or errors or failures to meet clients’ expectations could result in damage to our reputation or even claims for substantial monetary damages against us. In addition, we sometimes provide guarantees to customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that our solutions will achieve defined performance standards. If our solutions experience a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we will incur in our remedial efforts, which could materially impair profit derived from a particular project. Moreover, a portion of our revenues are derived from fixed price contracts. Changes in the actual and estimated costs and time to complete fixed-price, time-certain projects may result in revenue adjustments for contracts where revenue is recognized under the percentage of completion method. Finally, if we miscalculate the amount of resources or time we need to complete a project for which we have agreed to capped or fixed fees, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue and result in costly litigation or liability. Products such as SCM Microsystems’ smart card readers, Hirsch’s access control panels and our RFID inlays may contain defects for many reasons, including defective design or manufacture, defective material or software inoperability issues. Often, these defects are not detected until after the products have been shipped. If any of our products contain defects or perceived defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems or 30 Table of Contents perceived problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly, we could lose or experience a delay in market acceptance of the affected product or products and we might be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales. In the event of an actual or perceived defect or other problem, we may need to invest significant capital, technical, managerial and other resources to investigate and correct the potential defect or problem and potentially divert these resources from other development efforts. If we are unable to provide a solution to the potential defect or problem that is acceptable to our customers, we may be required to incur substantial product recall, repair and replacement and even litigation costs. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We provide warranties on certain product sales, which range from 12 to 24 months, and allowances for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of product return rates and expected costs to repair or to replace the products under warranty. We currently establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for each product line combined with liability estimates based on the prior twelve months’ sales activities. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of sales may be required in future periods. In addition, because our customers rely on our smart card readers to prevent unauthorized access to PCs, networks or facilities, a malfunction of or design defect in our products (or even a perceived defect) could result in legal or warranty claims against us for damages resulting from security breaches. If such claims are adversely decided against us, the potential liability could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, the possible publicity associated with any such claim, whether or not decided against us, could adversely affect our reputation. In addition, a well-publicized security breach involving smart card-based or other security systems could adversely affect the market’s perception of products like ours in general, or our products in particular, regardless of whether the breach is actual or attributable to our products. Any of the foregoing events could cause demand for our products to decline, which would cause our business and operating results to suffer. We have global operations, which require significant financial, managerial and administrative resources. Our business model includes the management of separate product lines that address disparate market opportunities that are geographically dispersed. While there is some shared technology across our products, each product line requires significant research and development efforts to address the evolving needs of our customers and markets. To support our development and sales efforts, we maintain company offices and business operations in several locations around the world, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland and the U.S. We also must manage contract manufacturers in multiple countries, including China and Singapore. Managing our various development, sales, administrative and manufacturing operations places a significant burden on our financial systems and has contributed to a level of operational spending that is disproportionately high compared to our current revenue levels. Operating in diverse geographic locations also imposes significant burdens on our managerial resources. In particular, our management must: • divert a significant amount of time and energy to manage employees and contractors from diverse cultural backgrounds and who speak different languages; • travel between our different company offices; • maintain sufficient internal financial controls in multiple geographic locations that may have different control environments; • manage different product lines for different markets; • manage our supply and distribution channels across different countries and business practices; and • coordinate these efforts to produce an integrated business effort, focus and vision. 31 Table of Contents Any failure to effectively manage our operations globally could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S. Economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. We conduct a substantial portion of our business in Europe and Asia. Approximately 45% of our revenue in 2010 and 40% of our revenue in 2009 was derived from customers located outside the U.S. Because a significant number of our principal customers are located in other countries, we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, a significant portion of our sales and operations may continue to be subject to risks associated with foreign operations, any of which could impact our sales and/or our operational performance. These risks include, but are not limited to: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions and stability, particularly in emerging markets; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • export controls; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • difficulty in managing widespread sales and manufacturing operations; and • less effective protection of intellectual property. Personnel Risks Our key personnel and directors are critical to our business, and such key personnel may not remain with us in the future. We depend on the continued employment of our senior executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. If any of our key personnel were to leave and not be replaced with sufficiently qualified and experienced personnel, our business could be adversely affected. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. However, competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to retain our key technical and management employees or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future. Likewise, as a small, dual-traded company, we are challenged to identify, attract and retain experienced professionals with diverse skills and backgrounds who are qualified and willing to serve on our Board of Directors. The increased burden of regulatory compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 creates additional liability and exposure for directors and financial losses in our business and lack of growth in our stock price make it difficult for us to offer attractive director compensation packages. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified board members, our ability to practice a high level of corporate governance could be impaired. Qualified management, marketing, and sales personnel are difficult to locate, hire and train, and if we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, it will harm the ability of our business to grow. The success of our company depends, in part, on the continued service of key managerial, marketing and sales personnel. Competition for qualified management, technical, sales and marketing employees is intense. We 32 Table of Contents cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, retain and integrate employees to develop and continue our business and successfully implement strategic acquisitions. Risks of Financial and Capital Markets Our stock price has been and is likely to remain volatile. Over the past few years, the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of the stocks of technology companies. Volatility in our stock price on either or both exchanges may result from a number of factors, including, among others: • low volumes of trading activity in our stock, particularly in the U.S.; • variations in our or our competitors’ financial and/or operational results; • the fluctuation in market value of comparable companies in any of our markets; • expected, perceived or announced relationships or transactions with third parties; • comments and forecasts by securities analysts; • trading patterns of our stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market or the Frankfurt Stock Exchange; • the inclusion or removal of our stock from market indices, such as groups of technology stocks or other indices; • loss of key personnel; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements of dispositions, organizational restructuring, headcount reductions, litigation or write-off of investments; • litigation developments; and • general market downturns. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Identive common stock has historically traded at a very low volume. The market price of Identive common stock could decline as a result of the large number of securities that have been issued to former shareholders of acquired companies, which currently are eligible for sale or will become exercisable for shares of Identive common stock in the future. The new shares of Identive common stock issued as consideration in connection with the acquisition of Hirsch became freely saleable on January 30, 2010 and the warrants to purchase shares of Identive common stock will be exercisable for a two-year period beginning on April 30, 2012. The new shares of Identive common stock issued to former Bluehill ID shareholders in connection with the business combination with Bluehill ID are unrestricted and can be freely traded. The new shares of Identive common stock issued to RockWest are subject to a 24-month lock-up period which ends April 13, 2012. Consequently, a substantial number of additional shares of Identive common stock have recently become, or in the future will become available for resale in the public market. Stockholders of Identive and former shareholders of Hirsch, Bluehill ID or RockWest may not wish to continue to invest in the operations of the Company or may wish to dispose of some or all of their interests in Identive. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of both the newly issued and the existing Identive common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our stock. 33 Table of Contents You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our stock, and future sales of shares of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our stock price. In connection with the acquisition of Hirsch on April 30, 2009, after giving effect to the acquisition, we issued approximately 9.4 million shares of Identive common stock, and warrants to purchase approximately 4.7 million shares of Identive common stock, as consideration for the outstanding shares of Hirsch common stock. In connection with our business combination with Bluehill ID on January 4, 2010, we issued approximately 15.3 million shares of Identive common stock as consideration for the outstanding shares in Bluehill ID that were tendered in the transaction. In connection with the acquisition of RockWest on April 14, 2010, we issued approximately 2.6 million shares of Identive common stock as consideration for the outstanding shares of RockWest stock. From time to time, in the future we also may issue additional previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue up to 110,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 1, 2011, 48,275,702 shares of common stock were outstanding, including 618,400 shares held in treasury. In 2007, our Board of Directors and our stockholders approved our 2007 stock option plan, under which, as amended in October 2009, options to purchase 3.5 million shares of our common stock may be granted. As of December 31, 2010, an aggregate of approximately 2.4 million shares of common stock are reserved for future option grants and 1.8 million shares are reserved for future issuance pursuant to outstanding options under 2007 stock option plans. In connection with our acquisition of Bluehill ID, we assumed the Bluehill Plans under which up to 2.1 million shares may be issued. In addition, in 2010 our Board of Directors and our stockholders approved the 2010 Bonus and Incentive Plan under which 3.0 million shares of common stock were reserved for equity-based awards under the plan, of which 98,697 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements, or future public offerings of our securities for capital raising or for other business purposes. If we issue additional securities, the aggregate percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced. In addition, any new securities that we issue may have rights senior to those of our common stock. Additionally, as of December 31, 2010, warrants to purchase approximately 9.0 million shares of Identive common stock were outstanding. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock or other securities, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. The large percentage ownership of Identive common stock by former shareholders of Hirsch and Bluehill ID gives those shareholders significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. Immediately following our respective acquisitions of Hirsch and Bluehill ID, the former Hirsch shareholders beneficially owned approximately 37% and the former Bluehill ID shareholders beneficially owned approximately 38% of Identive’s common stock. Accordingly, the former Hirsch and Bluehill ID shareholders hold significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the Identive stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Identive’s assets or any other significant corporate transaction, such that such former shareholders of Hirsch or Bluehill ID, acting together, could delay or prevent a change of control of Identive, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The interests of the former Hirsch and Bluehill ID shareholders may differ from the interests of other stockholders. We are not, however, aware of any voting agreements among any of the former Hirsch or Bluehill ID shareholders at this time. 34 Table of Contents Several of our directors directly or indirectly hold significant amounts of our common stock, and each of them could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and stockholder approval, respectively. As of March 1, 2011, Mountain Partners AG, together with its affiliates (collectively “Mountain Partners”), had the right to vote approximately 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Daniel Wenzel, a director of our Company, is a co-founder of Mountain Partners. As of March 1, 2011, Lincoln Vale owned and had the right to vote approximately 7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Dr. Hans Liebler, one of our directors, is a partner of Lincoln Vale. As of March 1, 2011, the directors and officers of Identive Group collectively held approximately 8% of our common stock. Accordingly, our directors and officers could have influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. Our listing on both the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange exposes our stock price to additional risks of fluctuation. Our common stock is listed both on the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange (“FSE”) and we typically experience the majority of our trading on the FSE. Because of this, factors that would not otherwise affect a stock traded solely on the NASDAQ Stock Market may cause our stock price to fluctuate. For example, European investors may react differently and more positively or negatively than investors in the U.S. to events such as acquisitions, dispositions, one-time charges, any change in the status of our stock listing in Germany and higher or lower than expected revenue or earnings announcements. A significant positive or negative reaction by investors in Europe to such events could cause our stock price to increase or decrease significantly. The European economy and market conditions in general or downturns on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange specifically, regardless of the NASDAQ Stock Market conditions, also could negatively impact our stock price. Provisions in our agreements, charter documents, Delaware law and our rights plan may delay or prevent the acquisition of Identive by another company, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or enter into a material transaction with us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The triggering and exercise of the rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. While the rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of our Company, they may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of us that was deemed to be undesirable by our Board of Directors. These provisions will apply even if the offer were to be considered adequate by some of our stockholders. Because these provisions may be deemed to discourage a change of control, they may delay or prevent the acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the value of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risks Our business could be adversely affected by changes in laws or regulations pertaining to security. The U.S. federal government, suppliers to the federal government and certain industries in the public sector currently fall, or may in the future fall, under particular regulations pertaining to security. Some of the laws, regulations, certifications or requirements that may stimulate new security systems sales include the following: • Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12 and Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 201 produced by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST); • Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA); • Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) program; • Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (also known as the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act); • Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA); • Gramm-Leach Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA, a.k.a., the Financial Modernization Act); • Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT); • Free and Secure Trade Program (FAST); • Chemical Facility Anti Terrorism Standards (CFATS); and • various codes of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). Discontinuance of, changes in, or lack of adoption of laws or regulations pertaining to security could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and any failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Our business is affected by and must comply with various government regulations that impact its operating costs, profit margins and its internal organization and operations. Furthermore, our business may be audited to assure compliance with these requirements. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties, the loss of government orders or the removal of our products from the GSA approved list, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among the most significant regulations affecting our business are the following: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations, or the FAR, and agency regulations supplemental to the FAR, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under cost-based government contracts; • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These regulations affect how our customers can do business with us, and, in some instances, the regulations impose added costs on our business. Any changes in applicable laws and regulations could restrict our ability to 36 Table of Contents conduct our business. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government generally. If we are unable to continue to obtain U.S. government authorization regarding the export of our products, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries, which could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. In our business, we must comply with U.S. and European Union (“EU”) laws, among others, regulating the export of our products. In some cases, explicit authorization from the U.S. or an EU government is needed to export our products. The export regimes and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to changes. We cannot be certain that such export authorizations will be available to us or for our products in the future. In some cases, we rely upon the compliance activities of our prime contractors, and we cannot be certain they have taken or will take all measures necessary to comply with applicable export laws. If we or our prime contractor partners cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in certain international jurisdictions. We face risks from future claims of third parties and litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to claims of third parties, possibly resulting in litigation, which could include, among other things, claims regarding infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, product defects, employment-related claims, and claims related to acquisitions, dispositions or restructurings. Any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, require us to accept returns of products and to write off inventory, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. We expect the likelihood of intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our markets grows and as we increasingly incorporate third-party technology into our products. As a result of infringement claims, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third-party or redesign our products. Licenses may not be offered when we need them or on acceptable terms. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments or we may be required to license some of our intellectual property to others in return for such licenses. If we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary for us or our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our allegedly infringing products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We may also be unsuccessful in redesigning our products. Our suppliers and customers may be subject to infringement claims based on intellectual property included in our products. We have historically agreed to indemnify our suppliers and customers for patent infringement claims relating to our products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorney’s fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third-party claims for patent infringement. We may be exposed to risks of intellectual property infringement by third parties. Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, which afford only limited protection. We may not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology through patents, it is possible that no new patents will be issued, that our proprietary products or technologies are not patentable or that any issued patent will fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. 37 Table of Contents There has been a great deal of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights, and from time to time we may be required to use litigation to protect our proprietary technology. This may result in our incurring substantial costs and we may not be successful in any such litigation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to use our proprietary information and software without authorization. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Because many of our products are sold and a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., our exposure to intellectual property risks may be higher. Our means of protecting our proprietary and intellectual property rights may not be adequate. There is a risk that our competitors will independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or design around patents or other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property or our products or technologies are duplicated by others, our business could be harmed. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters may adversely affect our future results. A number of factors may impact our tax position, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any of these factors could make it more difficult for us to project or achieve expected tax results. An increase or decrease in our tax liabilities due to these or other factors could adversely affect our financial results in future periods. We face costs and risks associated with maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting, and if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us could be materially affected. Under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated, and expect to continue to dedicate, significant management, financial and other resources in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The process of maintaining and evaluating the effectiveness of these controls is expensive, time-consuming and requires significant attention from our management and staff. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time from other activities. We have found a material weakness in our internal controls in the past and we cannot be certain in the future that we will be able to report that our controls are without material weakness or to complete our evaluation of those controls in a timely fashion. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to rely on the integrity of our financial results, which could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results and investigation by regulatory authorities. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future 38 Table of Contents shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. In addition, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of control can provide absolute assurance, that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Any failure of our internal control systems to be effective could adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 