ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this Form 10-K include certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created thereby. Those statements include, but may not be limited to, all statements regarding the intent, belief and expectations of the Company and its management, such as statements concerning the Company's future profitability. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties including, without limitation, factors detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the SEC. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K will prove to be accurate, and in light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking Statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the objectives and plans of the Company will be achieved. The Company encounters a number of risks in the conduct of its business. A discussion of such risks follows. The Company is subject to a number of general categories of risks that may adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations, many of which are outside of management’s direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing returns. Among the types of risks assumed are: (1) credit risk, which the risk of loss due to loan customers or other counterparties not being able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (2) market risk, which is the risk of loss due to changes in the market value of assets and liabilities due to changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, and credit spreads, (3) liquidity risk, which is the risk of loss due to the possibility that funds may not be available to satisfy current or future commitments based on external macro market issues, investor and customer perception of financial strength, and events unrelated to the Company such as war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues, and (4) operational risk, which is the risk of loss due to human error, inadequate or failed internal systems and controls, violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards, and external influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters, and security risks. If one or more of the factors affecting our forward looking statements proves inaccurate, then our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated, expressed or implied by forward looking statements contained herein. Therefore, we caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward looking statements. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we will not update our forward looking statements to reflect actual results, performance or achievements. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business, future results of operations, and future cash flows. The Company’s results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately 31 Table of Contents succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Northeast Ohio because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. The current economic climate, with associated legislative and regulatory initiatives, may materially adversely affect the Company’s operations. One example of this affect is the increase in FDIC insurance premiums and special assessments due to bank failures. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as the Bank are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest earning assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. The strength and stability of other financial institutions may adversely affect our business. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect the Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial services to institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, mutual funds and other institutional clients. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to marketwide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may increase when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, construction, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing commercial real estate. Commercial real estate lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small- to medium-sized businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home equity and second mortgage loans, automobile loans, deposit account secured loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. 32 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and, possibly, our financial condition. Growth Strategy. The Company has pursued and continues to pursue a strategy of organic growth. The success of the Company's growth strategy will depend largely upon its ability to manage its credit risk and control its costs while providing competitive products and services. This growth strategy may present special risks, such as the risk that the Company will not efficiently handle growth with its present operations, the risk of dilution of book value and earnings per share as a result of an acquisition, the risk that earnings will be adversely affected by the start-up costs associated with establishing new products and services, the risk that the Company will not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel needed for expanded operations, and the risk that its internal monitoring and control systems may prove inadequate. Organizational Documents; Anti-Takeover Provisions. In addition to Ohio and federal laws and regulations governing changes in control of insured depository institutions, the Company's Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations contain certain provisions that may delay or make more difficult an acquisition of control of the Company. For example, the Company's Articles of Incorporation do not exempt the Company from the provisions of Ohio's "control share acquisition" and "merger moratorium" statutes. Assuming that the principal stockholders continue to retain the number of the outstanding voting shares of the Company that they presently own and the law of Delaware requires, as it presently does, at least two-thirds majority vote of the outstanding shares to approve a merger or other consolidation, unless the articles of incorporation of the constituent companies provide for a lower approval percentage for the transaction, which the Company's articles do not provide, such ownership position could be expected to deter any prospective acquirer from seeking to acquire ownership or control of the Company, and the principal stockholders would be able to defeat any acquisition proposal that requires approval of the Company's stockholders, if the principal stockholders chose to do so. In addition, the principal stockholders may make a private sale of shares of common stock of the Company that they own, including to a person seeking to acquire ownership or control of the Company. Further, the Company has 500,000 shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock, par value $0.10 per share, which may be issued in the future with such rights, privileges and preferences as are determined by the Board of Directors of the Company. Limited Trading Market; Shares Eligible for Future Sale; Possible Volatility of Stock Price. The Company’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol "WAYN." During the 12 months ended March 31, 2011, the average weekly trading volume in the Company’s common stock was approximately 7,850 shares per week. There can be no assurance given as to the liquidity of the market for the common stock or the price at which any sales may occur, which price will depend upon, among other things, the number of holders thereof, the interest of securities dealers in maintaining a market in the common stock and other factors beyond the control of the Company. The market price of the common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of additional shares of common stock owned by the Company's current shareholders. The market price for the common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly and yearly operating results, general trends in the banking industry and other factors. In addition, the stock market can experience price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of affected companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Dependence on Management. The Company's success depends to a great extent on its senior management, including its President and Chief Executive Officer, Rod C. Steiger, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Risk Officer, H. Stewart Fitz Gibbon III and Executive Vice President Steven G. Dimos. The loss 33 Table of Contents of their individual services could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial stability and its operations. In addition, the Company's future performance depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel and skilled employees, particularly at the senior management level. The Company's financial stability and its operations could be adversely affected if, for any reason, one or more key executive officers ceased to be active in the Company's management. Competition. Banking institutions operate in a highly competitive environment. The Company competes with other commercial banks, credit unions, savings institutions, finance companies, mortgage companies, mutual funds, and other financial institutions, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. Certain of these competitors offer products and services that are not offered by the Company and certain competitors are not subject to the same extensive laws and regulations as the Company. Additionally, consolidation of the financial services industry in Ohio and in the Midwest in recent years has increased the level of competition. Recent and proposed regulatory changes may further intensify competition in the Company's market area. Holding Company Structure; Government Regulations and Policies. The Company is a financial holding company, which is substantially dependent on the profitability of its subsidiaries and the upstream payment of dividends from the Bank to the Company. Under state and federal banking law, the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Company is subject to capital adequacy requirements. The inability of the Bank to generate profits and pay such dividends to the Company, or regulator restrictions on the payment of such dividends to the Company even if earned, would have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and the Company's ability to pay dividends to its shareholders. Goodwill Impairment. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are evaluated for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Evaluation of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 34 Table of Contents 