Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the factors that could materially and adversely affect our future performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us and we cannot predict every event and circumstance that may adversely affect our business. However, these risks and uncertainties are the most significant factors that we have identified at this time. If one or more of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would likely suffer, and the price of our stock would be negatively affected. Our sales are affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, which causes our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Our business depends in significant part upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers. Capital expenditures by these companies depend upon, among other things, the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and the products that utilize them. Typically, semiconductor manufacturers curtail capital expenditures during periods of economic downtown. Conversely, semiconductor manufacturers increase capital expenditures when market demand requires the addition - 11 - of new or expanded production capabilities or the reconfiguration of existing fabrication facilities to accommodate new products. These market changes have contributed in the past, and will likely continue to contribute in the future, to fluctuations in our operating results. Changes in the buying patterns of our customers have affected, and may continue to affect, demand for our products and our gross and net operating margins. Such changes in patterns are difficult to predict and may not be immediately apparent. In addition to the cyclicality of the semiconductor market, demand for our products and our gross and net operating margins have also been affected by changes in the buying patterns of our customers. We now believe that in recent years there have been a variety of emerging changes within the ATE market, including, for example, changing product requirements, longer time periods between new product offerings by OEMs and changes in customer buying patterns. In particular, demand for our Manipulator, Docking Hardware and Tester Interface products, which are sold exclusively within the ATE industry, and our operating margins in these product segments have been affected by shifts in the competitive landscape, including (i) customers placing heightened emphasis on shorter lead times (which places increased demands on our available engineering and production capacity increasing unit costs) and ordering in smaller quantities (which prevents us from acquiring component materials in larger volumes at lower cost and increasing unit costs), (ii) the increasing practice of OEM manufacturers to specify other suppliers as primary vendors, with less frequent opportunities to compete for such designations, (iii) customers requiring products with a greater range of use at the lowest cost, and (iv) customer supply line management groups demanding lower prices and spreading purchases across multiple vendors. These recently emerging shifts in market practices have had, and may continue to have, varying degrees of impact on our net revenues and our gross and net operating margins. Such shifts are difficult to predict and may not be immediately apparent, and the impact of these practices is difficult to quantify from period to period. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing effective strategies to counter these shifts. If we are not able to reduce our operating expenses during periods of weak demand, or if we utilize significant amounts of cash to implement our acquisition strategy, we will erode our cash resources and may not have sufficient cash to operate our businesses. In recent years, we have implemented cost controls and restructured our operations with the goal of significantly reducing our fixed operating costs to position ourselves to more effectively meet the needs of the fluid ATE market. We are presently assessing additional ways to lower our cost structure and increase revenues. If we are not successful in controlling our operating expenses, or if we utilize significant amounts of cash to implement our acquisition strategy, the level of our cash may be eroded and may not be sufficient to operate our businesses. As of December 31, 2007 we had cash and cash equivalents of $12.2 million. While we believe our cash balances will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements for the foreseeable future, we cannot determine with certainty that, if needed, we would be able to raise additional funding through either equity or debt financing under these circumstances or on what terms such financing would be available. Our operating results often change significantly from quarter to quarter and may cause fluctuations in our stock price. During the last several years, our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. We believe that these fluctuations occur primarily due to the cycles of demand in the semiconductor manufacturing industry. In addition to the changing cycles of demand in the semiconductor manufacturing industry, other factors that have caused our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in the past, and that may cause fluctuations and losses in the future, include: changes in the buying patterns of our customers; changes in our market share; the technological obsolescence of our inventories; quantities of our inventories greater than is reasonably likely to be utilized in future periods; significant product warranty charges; the recording of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets; competitive pricing pressures; the impairment of our assets due to reduced future demand for our products; excess manufacturing capacity; our ability to control operating costs; costs associated with implementing our restructuring initiatives; delays in shipments of our products; the mix of our products sold; the mix of customers and geographic regions where we sell our products; - 12 - changes in the level of our fixed costs; costs associated with the development of our proprietary technology; costs and timing of integration of our acquisitions and plant relocations and expansions; our ability to obtain raw materials or fabricated parts when needed; increases in costs of raw materials; cancellation or rescheduling of orders by our customers; and political or economic instability. Because the market price of our common stock has tended to vary based on, and in relation to, changes in our operating results, fluctuations in the market price of our stock are likely to continue as variations in our quarterly results continue. Our customers' purchasing patterns can vary significantly from month to month and cannot be easily predicted, thus resulting in fluctuations in our backlog and quarterly results. Our backlog at December 31, 2007 was $4.2 million compared to $4.8 million at December 31, 2006. Our backlog at the beginning of a quarter typically does not include all orders necessary to achieve our sales objectives for that quarter. Orders in our backlog are subject to cancellation, delay or rescheduling by our customers with limited or no penalties or ability to collect bill back amounts. Throughout recent years, we have experienced customer-requested shipment delays and order cancellations, and we believe it is probable that orders will be cancelled and/or delayed in the future. In addition, during a downturn, some of our customers may rely on short lead times generally available from suppliers, including us, whereas in periods of stronger demand, and longer lead times, customers need to book orders earlier. We have experienced varying levels of product warranty costs in recent periods and cannot predict the level of such costs that we may incur in future periods. We accrue product warranty charges quarterly, based upon our historical claims experience. In addition, from time to time, we accrue additional amounts based upon known product warranty issues, such as product retrofits. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our product warranty charges (recoveries) were $(198,000), $378,000 and $549,000, or (0.4)%, 0.6% and 1.0% of net revenues, respectively. The level of our product warranty charges both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenues is affected by a number of factors including the cyclicality of demand in the ATE industry, the prototype nature of much of our business, the complex nature of many of our products, the introduction of new product "families" which typically have higher levels of warranty claims than existing product families and, at our discretion, providing warranty repairs or replacements to customers after the contractual warranty period has expired in order to promote strong customer relations. If our products have reliability, quality or other problems, or the market perceives our products to be deficient, we may suffer reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collecting accounts receivable and higher service, support and warranty expenses. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs of compliance with such laws and regulations. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. Additional recent changes and future changes in securities regulations are expected to continue to affect our costs. In order to comply with certain requirements of the Sabanes-Oxley Act, such as the internal control system requirements of Section 404 of the Act, we have incurred, and expect to incur significant additional expenses in future periods to comply with these new requirements, including the requirement for future reviews of our internal control system by our independent accounting firm. We are continuing to evaluate and monitor regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. The inability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement that law require us to include in our Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007, an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the future, we will be required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K attestation reports by our independent registered public accounting firm (our IRPAF), reporting as to whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the relevant year. During our assessment process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we may be unable to assert that our internal control is effective. While our assessment (as reported in Item 9A(T) of this Report) is that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007, the effectiveness - 13 - of our internal control in future periods cannot be assured, and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may deteriorate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of any future date, or if our IRPAF does not attest to the effectiveness of our internal control, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We seek to acquire additional businesses. If we are unable to do so, our future rate of growth may be reduced or limited. A key element of our growth strategy is to acquire businesses, technologies or products that expand and complement our current businesses. We may not be able to execute our acquisition strategy if: we are unable to identify suitable businesses or technologies to acquire; we do not have the cash or access to required capital at the necessary time; or we are unwilling or unable to outbid larger, more resourceful companies. Our acquisition strategy involves financial and management risks which may adversely affect our results in the future. If we acquire additional businesses, technologies or products, we will face the following additional risks: future acquisitions could divert management's attention from daily operations or otherwise require additional management, operational and financial resources; we might not be able to integrate future acquisitions into our business successfully or operate acquired businesses profitably; we may realize substantial acquisition related expenses which would reduce our net earnings in future years; and our investigation of potential acquisition candidates may not reveal problems and liabilities of the companies that we acquire. If any of the events described above occur, our earnings could be reduced. If we issue shares of our stock or other rights to purchase our stock in connection with any future acquisitions, we would dilute our existing stockholders' interests and our earnings per share may decrease. If we issue debt in connection with any future acquisitions, lenders may impose covenants on us which could, among other things, restrict our ability to increase capital expenditures or to acquire additional businesses. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and our business prospects would be negatively affected if we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to innovation in the semiconductor industry. Semiconductor technology continues to become more complex as manufacturers incorporate ICs into an increasing variety of products. This trend, and the changes needed in automatic testing systems to respond to developments in the semiconductor industry, are likely to continue. We cannot be certain that we will be successful or timely in developing, manufacturing or selling products that will satisfy customer needs or that will attain market acceptance. Our failure to provide products that effectively and timely meet customer needs or gain market acceptance will negatively affect our business prospects. If we are not able to obtain patents on or otherwise preserve and protect our proprietary technologies, our business may suffer. We have obtained domestic and foreign patents covering some of our products which expire between the years 2008 and 2025, and we have applications pending for additional patents. Some of our products utilize proprietary technology that is not covered by a patent or similar protection, and, in many cases, cannot be protected. We cannot be certain that: any additional patents will be issued on our applications; any patents we own now or in the future will protect our business against competitors that develop similar technology or products; our patents will be held valid if they are challenged or subjected to reexamination or reissue; others will not claim rights to our patented or other proprietary technologies; or others will not develop technologies which are similar to, or can compete with, our unpatented proprietary technologies. If we cannot obtain patent or other protection for our proprietary technologies, our ability to compete in our markets could be impaired. - 14 - Claims of intellectual property infringement by or against us could seriously harm our businesses. From time to time, we may be forced to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to defend or protect our rights or a customer's rights. These claims, regardless of merit, may consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays. Any of these factors could seriously harm our business and operating results. We may have to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties who claim infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may be costly to us. If we are unable to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with satisfactory terms, our business could suffer. In instances where we have had reason to believe that we may be infringing the patent rights of others, or that someone may be infringing our patent rights, we have asked our patent counsel to evaluate the validity of the patents in question, as well as the potentially infringing conduct. If we become involved in a dispute, neither the third parties nor the courts are bound by our counsel's conclusions. Our business will suffer if we cannot compete successfully with manufacturers whose products are similar to ours. We compete with numerous manufacturers, many of whom have greater financial resources and more extensive design and production capabilities than we do. Some of our principal competitors in the sale of manipulator, docking and tester interface products are Reid-Ashman Manufacturing Inc., Microhandling GmbH, Esmo AG, Credence Systems Corp., LTX Corporation, Teradyne Inc. and Xandex Inc. Some of our principal competitors in the sale of temperature management products are Thermonics Inc., ERS Elektronik GmbH and Advances Temperature Test Systems GmbH. In order to remain competitive with these and other companies, we must be able to continue to commit a significant portion of our personnel, financial resources, research and development and customer support to developing new products and maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide. If we are not able to compete successfully, our business will suffer. We generate a large portion of our sales from a small number of customers. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, operating results could suffer dramatically. Texas Instruments Inc. accounted for 20%, 19% and 16% of our consolidated net revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. While all three of our operating segments sold to these customers, these revenues were primarily generated by our Manipulator and Docking Hardware and Tester Interface Product segments. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 54%, 59% and 56% of our net revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of any one or more of our largest customers, or a reduction in orders by a major customer, could materially reduce our net revenues or otherwise materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Significant fluctuations in our net revenues and operating results strain our management, employees and other resources. Over the last several years, we have experienced significant fluctuations in our net revenues and operating results. As a result of these sometimes sudden and significant changes in our market, we have implemented cost controls, including salary and benefit reductions, and restructured our operations. We are presently considering new initiatives to more closely align our cost structure with current market demands. Such fluctuations in our net revenues and operating results, compensation changes and restructuring place strain on our management, employees and other resources. If we do not continue to retain the services of key personnel, relationships with, and sales to, some of our customers could suffer, which could have a negative impact on our business. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our future success will depend largely upon the continued services of our senior management and certain other key employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers or other key employees. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain our managers, engineers and other key employees. Our business could suffer if we were unable to retain one or more of our senior officers or other key employees. A substantial portion of our operations exists outside the U.S., which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. We have operated internationally for many years and expect to expand our international operations as necessary to continue expansion of our sales and service to our non-U.S. customers. Our foreign subsidiaries generated 26% and 32% of consolidated net revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Export sales from our U.S. manufacturing facilities totaled $17.2 million, or 35% of consolidated net revenues, in 2007 and $16.8 million, or 27% of consolidated net revenues, in 2006. The portion of our consolidated net revenues that were derived from sales by our subsidiaries in the Asia-Pacific region was 12% in 2007 and 23% in 2006. We expect our international revenues will continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenues. However, in addition to the risks generally associated with sales and operations in the U.S., sales to customers outside the U.S. and operations in foreign countries are subject to additional risks, which may, in the future, affect our operations. These risks include: - 15 - political and economic instability in foreign countries; the imposition of financial and operational controls and regulatory restrictions by foreign governments; the need to comply with a wide variety of U.S. and foreign import and export laws; trade restrictions; changes in tariffs and taxes; longer payment cycles; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and the greater difficulty of administering business abroad. We conduct business in foreign currencies, and fluctuations in the values of those currencies could result in foreign exchange losses. In 2007, approximately 3% of our net revenues were denominated in Japanese yen and approximately 14% were denominated in Euros. During 2007, we recorded foreign exchange currency transaction losses of $187,000. Future fluctuations in the value of the Japanese Yen or the Euro could result in foreign exchange gains or losses. Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of our competitors or customers, or strengthening or weakening of the Japanese yen or Euro in relation to other currencies in which our customers or competitors do business, could adversely affect our competitiveness. Moreover, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar or other competitive factors could put pressure on us to denominate a greater portion of our sales in foreign currencies, thereby increasing our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates. Any devaluation of these currencies would hurt our business. We do not undertake hedging activities against the majority of our exchange rate risk. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our competitive position or result in foreign exchange losses, either of which could cause our business to suffer. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 