ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may fluctuate widely in the future. Our common stock, which is traded on The New York Stock Exchange, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect its market price without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results, earnings below analysts’ estimates and financial performance and other activities of other publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, our common stock, the stock market in general and the market for shares of semiconductor industry-related stocks in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any similar fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We maintain a backlog of customer orders that is subject to cancellation, reduction or delay in delivery schedules, which may result in lower than expected revenues. We manufacture products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or to forecast, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. The semiconductor industry is occasionally subject to double booking and rapid changes in customer outlooks or unexpected build ups of inventory in the supply channel as a result of shifts in end market demand and macro economic conditions. Accordingly, many of these purchase orders or forecasts may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without binding purchase commitments from customers. Even in cases where our standard terms and conditions of sale or other contractual arrangements do not permit a customer to cancel an order without penalty, we may from time to time accept cancellations to maintain customer relationships or because of industry practice, custom or other factors. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on both our levels of inventory and revenues. While we currently believe our inventory levels are appropriate for the current economic environment, continued global economic uncertainty may result in lower than expected demand. Lower demand may further impact our customers’ target inventory levels as they manage their business through this period. We continue to carefully manage our inventory and anticipate that demand may improve throughout 2010; however our current business forecasting is still hampered by poor forward visibility and the risk that our backlog may deteriorate as a result of customer cancellations. Downturns in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry or changes in end user market demands could reduce the profitability and overall value of our business, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline or have other adverse effects on our financial position. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and the value of our business may decline during the “down” portion of these cycles. As we have experienced in the past, uncertainty in global economic conditions may continue to negatively affect us and the rest of the semiconductor industry, by causing us to experience backlog cancellations and reduced demand for our products. We may experience renewed, possibly severe and prolonged, downturns in the future as a result of such cyclicality. Even as demand increases following such downturns, our profitability may not increase because of price competition that historically accompanies recoveries in demand. In addition, we may experience significant changes in our profitability as a result of variations in sales, changes in product mix, changes in end user markets and the costs associated with the introduction of new products, and our efforts to reduce excess inventories that may have built up as a result of any of these factors. The markets for our products depend on continued demand for consumer electronics such as personal computers, cellular 14 Table of Contents telephones and digital cameras, and automotive, household and industrial goods. These end user markets may experience changes in demand, such as decreases we experienced as a result of deteriorating global economic conditions that could adversely affect our prospects. Our failure to execute on our cost reduction initiatives and the impact of such initiatives could adversely affect our business. We have recently taken aggressive cost reduction actions in order to stay ahead of the economic environment. These actions include plans to streamline and consolidate wafer manufacturing by closing our wafer manufacturing facility in Pennsylvania and closing our four-inch manufacturing line in South Korea. Additionally, we initiated an insourcing program to replace higher-cost outside subcontractors with internal manufacturing, we lowered our materials costs, implemented workforce reductions, and reduced employee benefits. We expect these actions will simplify operations, improve productivity and reduce costs. We cannot guarantee that any of these actions will be successfully implemented, or will sufficiently help in reducing costs. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our profitability and business. We may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changing customer demands or we may develop the wrong products. Our failure to develop new technologies, or react to changes in existing technologies, could materially delay development of new products and lead to decreased revenues and a loss of market share to our competitors. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, together with frequent new product introductions. Our financial performance depends on our ability to identify important new technology advances and to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. While new products often command higher prices and higher profit margins, we may not successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market or succeed in selling them for use in new customer applications in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of our competitors are larger, older and more established companies with greater engineering and research and development resources than us. If we fail to identify a fundamental shift in technologies or in our product markets such failure could have material adverse effects on our competitive position within the industry. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue our efforts to reduce die sizes, develop new packages and improve manufacturing yields. We cannot assure you that we can accomplish these goals. If some original equipment manufacturers do not design our products into their equipment, our revenue may be adversely affected. The success of our products often depends on whether OEMs, or their contract manufacturers, choose to incorporate or “design in” our products, or identify our products, with those from a limited number of other vendors, as approved for use in particular OEM applications. Without “design wins,” we may only be able to sell our products to customers as a second source, if at all. If an OEM designs another supplier’s product into one of its applications, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins for that application because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Even if a customer designs in our products, we are not guaranteed to receive future sales from that customer. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins” because of competition or a product’s functionality, size, electrical characteristics or other aspect of its design or price. Additionally, we may be unable to service expected demand from the customer. In addition, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenue from that customer and we may be unable to convert design into actual sales. 15 Table of Contents We depend on demand from the consumer, original equipment manufacturer, contract manufacturing, industrial, automotive and other markets we serve for the end market applications which incorporate our products. Reduced consumer or corporate spending due to increased energy prices or other economic factors could affect our revenues. If we provide revenue and gross margin guidance, it is based on our projections of consumer and corporate spending. If our projections of these expenditures are wrong, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. For example, beginning in the third quarter and continuing into the fourth quarter of 2008, we observed progressively weakening order rates which we attributed to uncertainty and deterioration of global economic conditions. While order rates began to recover in the first half of 2009 and continued to improve in the second half of 2009, our current business forecasting remains hampered by poor forward visibility, as our OEM and distributor customers remain cautious in their booking activity. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect such technologies. These laws are subject to legislative and regulatory change or through changes in court interpretations of those laws and regulations. For example, there have been recent developments in the laws and regulations governing the issuance and assertion of patents in the U.S., including modifications to the rules governing patent prosecution. There have also been court rulings on the issues of willfulness, obviousness and injunctions, that may affect our ability to obtain patents and/or enforce our patents against others. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. With respect to our intellectual property generally, we cannot assure you that: • the patents owned by us or numerous other patents which third parties license to us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies; or • any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some countries. We cannot assure that we will be able to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights in every country in which our products are sold or manufactured. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of such research. We have non-exclusive licenses to some of our technology from National Semiconductor, Infineon, Samsung Electronics and other companies. These companies may license such technologies to others, including our competitors or may compete with us directly. In addition, National Semiconductor and Infineon have limited royalty-free, worldwide license rights to some of our technologies. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents or intellectual property rights claimed by others. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technologies we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use some technologies may negatively affect our financial results. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain proprietary technologies used in our principal products. From time to time we are required to defend against claims by competitors and others of intellectual property infringement. Claims of intellectual property infringement and 16 Table of Contents litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in the semiconductor industry. From time to time, we may be notified of claims that we may be infringing patents issued to other companies. Such claims may relate both to products and manufacturing processes. We may engage in license negotiations regarding these claims from time to time. Even though we maintain procedures to avoid infringing others’ rights as part of our product and process development efforts, it is impossible to be aware of every possible patent which our products may infringe, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to avoid infringement claims. Furthermore, even if we conclude our products do not infringe another’s patents, others may not agree. We have been and are involved in lawsuits, and could become subject to other lawsuits, in which it is alleged that we have infringed upon the patent or other intellectual property rights of other companies. For example, since October 2004, we have been in litigation with Power Integrations, Inc. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Our involvement in this litigation and future intellectual property litigation, or the costs of avoiding or settling litigation by purchasing licenses rights or by other means, could result in significant expense to our company, adversely affecting sales of the challenged products or technologies and diverting the efforts and attention of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. We may decide to settle patent infringement claims or litigation by purchasing license rights from the claimant, even if we believe we are not infringing, in order to reduce the expense of continuing the dispute or because we are not sufficiently confident that we would eventually prevail. In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • indemnify our customers for damages they might suffer if the products they purchase from us violate the intellectual property rights of others; • stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; • discontinue manufacturing processes; or • obtain licenses to the intellectual property we are found to have infringed. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate acquisitions into our business. We have made numerous acquisitions of various sizes since we became an independent company in 1997 and we plan to pursue additional acquisitions of related businesses. The costs of acquiring and integrating related businesses, or our failure to integrate them successfully into our existing businesses, could result in our company incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may not be able to identify or finance additional acquisitions or realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions we do complete. We are constantly evaluating acquisition opportunities and consolidation possibilities and are frequently conducting due diligence or holding preliminary discussions with respect to possible acquisition transactions, some of which could be significant. If we acquire another business, the process of integrating an acquired business into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require us to use significant financial resources on the acquisition that may otherwise be needed for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with acquisitions include: • unexpected losses of key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired company; • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; 17 Table of Contents • coordinating new product and process development; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • inability to realize anticipated synergies; • negotiating with labor unions; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of other businesses we acquire. Possible future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may face risks associated with dispositions of assets and businesses. From time to time we may dispose of assets and businesses in an effort to grow our more profitable product lines. When we do so, we face certain risks associated with these exit activities, including but not limited the risk that we will disrupt service to our customers, the risk of inadvertently losing other business not related to the exit activities, the risk that we will be unable to effectively continue, terminate, modify and manage supplier and vendor relationships, and the risk that we may be subject to consequential claims from customers or vendors as a result of eliminating, or transferring the of production of affected products or the renegotiation of commitments related to those products. We depend on suppliers for timely deliveries of raw materials of acceptable quality. Production time and product costs could increase if we were to lose a primary supplier or if we experience a significant increase in the prices of our raw materials. Product performance could be affected and quality issues could develop as a result of a significant degradation in the quality of raw materials we use in our products. Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, gold, copper lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Our manufacturing operations depend upon our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. If the prices of these raw materials rise significantly we may be unable to pass on our increased operating expenses to our customers, which would result in decreased profit margins for the products in which they are used. Results could also be adversely affected if there is a significant degradation in the quality of raw materials used in our products, or if the raw materials give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products, any of which could lead to an increase in customer returns or product warranty claims. Although we maintain rigorous quality control systems, errors or defects may arise from a supplied raw material and be beyond our detection or control. For example, some phosphorus-containing mold compound received from one supplier and incorporated into our products in the past resulted in a number of claims for damages from customers. We purchase some of our raw materials such as silicon wafers, lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and chemicals and gases from a limited number of suppliers on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. We subcontract a minority of our wafer fabrication needs, primarily to Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, Central Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, Jilin Magic Semiconductor, Macronix International Co. Ltd., Phenitec Semiconductor and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. In order to maximize our production capacity, some of our back-end assembly and testing operations are also subcontracted. Primary back-end subcontractors include Amkor, ASE, AUK, GEM Services, Hana Semiconductor, Liteon, Tak Cheong Electronics, Greatek, Etrend, AIC and UTAC Thai Ltd. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors were disrupted or terminated. 18 Table of Contents Delays in expanding capacity at existing facilities, implementing new production techniques, or incurring problems associated with technical equipment malfunctions, all could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in our profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. We are constantly looking for ways to expand capacity or improve efficiency at our manufacturing facilities. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced difficulty in completing transitions to new manufacturing processes at existing facilities. As a consequence, we have suffered delays in product deliveries or reduced yields in the past and may experience such delays again in the future. We may experience delays or problems in bringing new manufacturing capacity to full production. Such delays, as well as possible problems in achieving acceptable yields, or product delivery delays relating to existing or planned new capacity could result from, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our operating results could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity if revenues do not increase proportionately. Slightly less than two-thirds of our sales are made to distributors who can terminate their relationships with us with little or no notice. The termination of a distributor could reduce sales and result in inventory returns. Distributors accounted for 64% of our net sales for the year ended December 27, 2009. Our top five distributors worldwide accounted for 17% of our net sales for the year ended December 27, 2009. As a general rule, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and they may terminate their relationships with us with little or no advance notice. Distributors generally offer competing products. The loss of one or more of our distributors, or the decision by one or more of them to reduce the number of our products they offer or to carry the product lines of our competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor’s initiative, or a disruption in the operations of one or more of our distributors, could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. The semiconductor business is very competitive, especially in the markets we serve, and increased competition could reduce the value of an investment in our company. We participate in the standard component or “multi-market” segment of the semiconductor industry. While the semiconductor industry is generally highly competitive, the “multi-market” segment is particularly so. Our competitors offer equivalent or similar versions of many of our products, and customers may switch from our products to our competitors’ products on the basis of price, delivery terms, product performance, quality, reliability and customer service or a combination of any of these factors. Competition is especially intense in the multi-market semiconductor segment because it is relatively easy for customers to switch between suppliers of more standardized, multi-market products like ours. In the past we have experienced decreases in prices during “down” cycles in the semiconductor industry, and this may occur again as a result of the recent downturn in global economic conditions. Even in strong markets, price pressures may emerge as competitors attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. We compete in a global market and our competitors are companies of various sizes in various countries around the world. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources available to them. As such, they tend to have a greater ability to pursue acquisition candidates and can better withstand adverse economic or market conditions. Additionally, companies with whom we do not currently compete may introduce new products that may cause them to compete with us in the future. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract or retain the technical or management employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel. In the semiconductor industry, the competition for qualified personnel, particularly experienced design engineers and other technical employees, is intense, particularly in the “up” portions of our business cycle, when competitors may try to recruit our most valuable technical employees. While we devote a great deal of our attention to designing compensation programs aimed at accomplishing this goal, we modified many of our compensation programs in fiscal 2009 in response to the global economic crisis. As a result of these modifications, total compensation for many employees was reduced and many were required to take on additional responsibilities to compensate for headcount reductions. While some of the compensation programs have been restored for fiscal 2010, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel or recruit the key personnel we require. If we must reduce our use of equity awards to compensate our employees, our competitiveness in the employee marketplace could be adversely affected. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use to value our stock-based compensation. Like most technology companies, we have a history of using broad-based employee stock programs to recruit and retain our workforce in a competitive employment marketplace. Our success will depend in part upon the continued use of stock options, restricted stock units, deferred stock units and performance-based equity awards as a compensation tool. We plan to seek stockholder approval for increases in the number of shares available for grant under the Fairchild Semiconductor 2007 Stock Plan as well as other amendments that may be adopted from time to time which require stockholder approval. If these proposals do not receive stockholder approval, we may not be able to grant stock options and other equity awards to employees at the same levels as in the past, which could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, and we may need to increase cash compensation in order to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, in 2009 we did not grant any stock options to our employees relying instead on grants of restricted stock units, deferred stock units and performance based equity awards. While we believe that our compensation policies remained competitive with our peers, we cannot provide any assurance that we have not, and will not continue in the future to lose opportunities to recruit and retain key employees as a result of these changes. The calculation of stock-based compensation expense under the Compensation – Stock Compensation Topic of the FASB ASC requires us to use valuation methodologies and a number of estimates, assumptions and conclusions regarding matters such as the expected volatility of our share price, the expected life of our options, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock, expected forfeitures and the exercise behavior of our employees. There are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust this expense if and when we learn of additional information that may affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of stock-based awards. Certain factors may arise over time that lead us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future stock-based compensation, resulting in variability in our stock-based compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted stock-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin percentage, research and development expenses, marketing, general and administrative expenses and our tax rate. We may face product warranty or product liability claims that are disproportionately higher than the value of the products involved. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. For example, our products that are incorporated into a personal computer may be sold for several dollars, whereas the personal computer might be sold by the computer maker for several hundred dollars. Although we maintain rigorous quality control systems, we manufacture and sell approximately 16 billion individual semiconductor devices per year to customers around the world, and in the ordinary course of 20 Table of Contents our business we receive warranty claims for some of these products that are defective or that do not perform to published specifications. Since a defect or failure in our product could give rise to failures in the goods that incorporate them (and consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. We attempt, through our standard terms and conditions of sale and other customer contracts, to limit our liability by agreeing only to replace the defective goods or refund the purchase price. Nevertheless, we have received claims for other charges, such as for labor and other costs of replacing defective parts or repairing the products into which the defective products are incorporated, lost profits and other damages. In addition, our ability to reduce such liabilities, whether by contracts or otherwise, may be limited by the laws or the customary business practices of the countries where we do business. And, even in cases where we do not believe we have legal liability for such claims, we may choose to pay for them to retain a customer’s business or goodwill or to settle claims to avoid protracted litigation. Our results of operations and business could be adversely affected as a result of a significant quality or performance issue in our products, if we are required or choose to pay for the damages that result. For example, from 2001 to 2008 we received claims from a number of customers seeking damages resulting from certain products manufactured with a phosphorus-containing mold compound, and we were named in lawsuits relating to these mold compound claims. Our international operations subject our company to risks not faced by domestic competitors. Through our subsidiaries we maintain significant operations and facilities in the Philippines, Malaysia, China, South Korea and Singapore. We have sales offices and customers around the world. Approximately 76% of our revenues in fiscal year 2009 were from Asia. The following are some of the risks inherent in doing business on an international level: • economic and political instability; • foreign currency fluctuations; • transportation delays; • trade restrictions; • changes in laws and regulations relating to, amongst other things, import and export tariffs, taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights and property, • work stoppages; and • the laws of, including tax laws, and the policies of the U.S. toward, countries in which we manufacture our products. We acquired significant operations and revenues when we acquired a business from Samsung Electronics and, as a result, are subject to risks inherent in doing business in Korea, including political risk, labor risk and currency risk. As a result of the acquisition of the power device business from Samsung Electronics in 1999, we have significant operations and sales in South Korea and are subject to risks associated with doing business there. Korea accounted for 13% of our revenue for the year ended December 27, 2009. Relations between South Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of South Korea’s history, and more recent concerns over North Korea’s nuclear capability, and relations between the U.S. and North Korea, have created a global security issue that may adversely affect Korean business and economic conditions. We cannot assure you as to whether or when this situation will be resolved or change abruptly as a result of current or future events. An adverse change in economic or political conditions in South Korea or in its relations with North Korea could have a material adverse effect on our Korean subsidiary and our company. In addition to other risks disclosed relating to international operations, some businesses in South Korea are subject to labor unrest. 21 Table of Contents Our Korean sales are increasingly denominated primarily in U.S. dollars while a significant portion of our Korean operations’ costs of goods sold and operating expenses are denominated in South Korean won. Although we have taken steps to fix the costs subject to currency fluctuations and to balance won revenues and won costs as much as possible, a significant change in this balance, coupled with a significant change in the value of the won relative to the dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations (see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk). A change in foreign tax laws or a difference in the construction of current foreign tax laws by relevant foreign authorities could result in us not recognizing any anticipated benefits. Some of our foreign subsidiaries have been granted preferential income tax or other tax holidays as an incentive for locating in those jurisdictions. A change in the foreign tax laws or in the construction of the foreign tax laws governing these tax holidays, or our failure to comply with the terms and conditions governing the tax holidays, could result in us not recognizing the anticipated benefits we derive from them, which would decrease our profitability in those jurisdictions. We continue to monitor the tax holidays, the income tax laws governing the tax holidays, and our compliance with the terms and conditions of the tax holidays, to ensure that the current and future tax impacts on our subsidiaries in these countries are anticipated and refined. We have significantly expanded our manufacturing operations in China and, as a result, will be increasingly subject to risks inherent in doing business in China, which may adversely affect our financial performance. We expect a significant portion of our production from our Suzhou, China facility will be exported out of China, however, we are hopeful that a significant portion of our future revenue will result from the Chinese markets in which our products are sold, and from demand in China for goods that include our products. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in that country’s laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. In addition, our results of operations in China are subject to the economic and political situation there. We believe that our operations in China are in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that China’s central or local governments will not impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures. Changes in the political environment or government policies could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations. In addition, a significant destabilization of relations between China and the U.S. could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations or the sale of our products in China. The legal system of China relating to foreign trade is relatively new and continues to evolve. There can be no certainty as to the application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be sporadic and implementation and interpretation of laws inconsistent. Moreover, there is a high degree of fragmentation among regulatory authorities resulting in uncertainties as to which authorities have jurisdiction over particular parties or transactions. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations that could affect our operations or result in significant expenses. Increasingly stringent environmental regulations restrict the amount and types of pollutants that can be released from our operations into the environment. While the cost of compliance with environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations historically, compliance with these and any future regulations could require significant capital investments in pollution control equipment or changes in the way we make our products. In addition, because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to risks of liabilities and claims, regardless of fault, resulting from our use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials, including personal injury claims and civil and criminal fines, any of which could be material to our cash flow or earnings. For example: 22 Table of Contents • we currently are remediating contamination at some of our operating plant sites; • we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at a number of Superfund sites where we (or our predecessors) disposed of wastes in the past; and • significant regulatory and public attention on the impact of semiconductor operations on the environment may result in more stringent regulations, further increasing our costs. Although most of our known environmental liabilities are covered by indemnification agreements with Raytheon Company, National Semiconductor, Samsung Electronics and Intersil Corporation, these indemnities are limited to conditions that occurred prior to the consummation of the transactions through which we acquired facilities from those companies. Moreover, we cannot assure you that their indemnity obligations to us for the covered liabilities will be available, or, if available, adequate to protect us. We are a leveraged company with a ratio of debt to equity at December 27, 2009 of approximately 0.5 to 1, which could adversely affect our financial health and limit our ability to grow and compete. At December 27, 2009, we had total debt of $472.2 million and the ratio of this debt to equity was approximately 0.5 to 1. As of December 27, 2009, our senior credit facility includes $472.2 million in term loans and the $100 million revolving line of credit. Adjusted for outstanding letters of credit, we had up to $98.0 million available under the revolving loan portion of the senior credit facility. In addition, there is a $150 million uncommitted incremental term loan feature. Despite reducing some of our long-term debt, we continue to carry substantial indebtedness which could have significant consequences on our operations. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • increase the amount of our interest expense, because certain of our borrowings (namely borrowings under our senior credit facility) are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the instruments governing our indebtedness; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; or • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, repurchase stock or pay cash dividends. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the terms of the credit agreement relating to the senior credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, 23 Table of Contents additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions or upon further amendment of the credit facility could be substantial. As of December 27, 2009, the senior credit facility permits borrowings of up to $100 million in revolving loans under the line of credit and up to $150 million under the uncommitted incremental term loan feature, in addition to the outstanding $ 472.2 million term loans that are currently outstanding under that facility. As of December 27, 2009, adjusted for outstanding letters of credit, we had up to $98.0 million available under the revolving loan portion of the senior credit facility. If new debt is added to our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the substantial risks described above would intensify. We may not be able to generate the necessary amount of cash to service our indebtedness, which may require us to refinance our indebtedness or default on our scheduled debt payments. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be subject to substantial fluctuations, many of which are the result of the recent downturn in the global economy. While we currently have sufficient cash flow to satisfy all of our current obligations, we cannot assure you that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs in the future. Further, we can make no assurances that our currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. In addition, because our senior credit facility has a variable interest rate, our cost of borrowing will increase if market interest rates increase. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to renew or refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Restrictions imposed by the credit agreement relating to our senior credit facility restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into some business operating and financing arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of potentially profitable business opportunities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the credit agreement relating to our senior credit facility may limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interests. The credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional indebtedness or create liens on our assets, pay dividends, sell assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions, make investments or engage in other business activities. These restrictions could place us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors many of which are not subject to such limitations. In addition, the senior credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios. As of December 27, 2009, we were in compliance with these ratios. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios or restrictions could result in an event of default under the senior credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against our assets, including any collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under the senior credit facility accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. We have investments in auction rate securities that subject us to market risk which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. As of December 27, 2009, we owned auction rate securities with a par value of $51.3 million and market value of $33.4 million. We originally purchased these securities believing them to be safe, short-term and highly liquid investments. However, as a result of the systemic failure of the auction rate securities market, these 24 Table of Contents securities are no longer liquid. While we continue to accrue and receive interest on these securities at the contractual rate, there can be no assurance that there will ever be an active market for our auction rate securities. Uncertainties in the credit and capital markets could lead to further downgrades of our auction rate securities and additional impairments. Additionally, auction failures have limited our ability to fully recover the par value of our investment in the short term and even if we hold the securities to maturity, the long-term value of the auction rate securities may potentially be impacted by issuer defaults. We do not anticipate that the lack of liquidity or future downgrades and impairments will materially impact our ability to fund out working capital needs, capital expenditures or other business requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission as of February 25, 2010. 25 Table of Contents 