Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In the normal course of business, we are exposed to various risks. Management balances our strategic goals, including revenue and profitability objectives, with the associated risks. This section highlights specific risks that could affect our company and our business. Although current key factors are discussed, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. This listing should not be considered all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct business as currently planned and financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the banking industry. The U.S. economy was in recession from December 2007 through June 2009. Business activity across a broad range of industries and regions in the U. S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still struggling with lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also played a role in the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. Our general financial performance is dependent upon certain factors within the business environment in the markets where we operate, in the Commonwealth of Virginia and in the United States, including: · The ability of borrowers to pay interest on outstanding loans · The ability of borrowers to repay principal on outstanding loans · The value of collateral securing loans · The demand for loans and other products and services we offer. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2011, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. While economic conditions in the Commonwealth of Virginia, the United States and worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. These conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to credit risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the Commonwealth of Virginia and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against us. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 56% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate mortgage loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large individual balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk. Earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb estimated incurred losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering current general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may cause the loan loss provision to vary widely from recent levels. Although management believes the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio, it is an estimate subject to revision as losses are confirmed. Higher levels of loan losses in the future could have a material adverse impact on financial performance. Federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase the provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from management’s. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Northern, Central and Western Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our business, real estate and construction loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could impact these local economic conditions and could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on the loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve, using a phased-in approach between 2013 and 2016, will no longer include trust preferred and certain other hybrid debt securities in Tier 1 Capital. The eventual decrease of Tier 1 capital, and actions to replace such capital may adversely affect us. Although we are not currently directly affected by Basel III, management does expect some trickle-down effect in the future concerning liquidity tests. Other recently enacted, proposed and future changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes, which are beyond our control, could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on earnings. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. Its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. 13 Table of Contents Future growth may require the need for additional capital and further regulatory approvals which, if not obtained, could adversely impact profitability and implementation of current strategic initiatives. To ensure continued growth, we will need to provide sufficient capital through earnings generation, additional equity or trust preferred offerings or borrowed funds, or any combination of these funding sources. For certain amounts or types of indebtedness, we may be required to obtain certain regulatory approvals beforehand. The ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance, as well as conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Financial and credit markets have experienced unprecedented disruption and volatility during the past several years. While market conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, a disruption in, or worsening of, financial and credit market conditions, or increased volatility in financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms and could negatively affect liquidity. We may raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, which could dilute existing earnings per share, or further reduce or even eliminate the common stock dividend to preserve capital or in order to raise additional capital. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand and grow operations and attain long-term profitability goals could be materially impacted. Our subsidiary bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we require such dividends in the future, may affect our ability to pay obligations and dividends. We are a separate legal entity from the subsidiary bank, and thus do not have significant revenue sources of our own. We currently depend on the subsidiary bank’s cash and liquidity as well as dividends from the banking subsidiary to pay operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the subsidiary bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends or that we will not require dividends from the subsidiary bank to satisfy our obligations. The availability of dividends from the subsidiary bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Depending upon our financial condition and other factors, it is possible that the Federal Reserve Board could limit the payment of dividends or other payments by the subsidiary bank. In the event the subsidiary bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy our obligations, we may not be able to service our obligations as they become due or pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the subsidiary bank could adversely affect financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses due to a concentration in loans secured by real estate. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers who, as a group, may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Currently, many loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. At December 31, 2011, approximately 42% and 37% of the $2.03 billion loans receivable portfolio were secured by commercial and residential real estate, respectively. Continued pressures on the real estate markets, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral and the current recession in national and local economies, could adversely affect customers' ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact the company. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit exposure to this risk by monitoring extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. 14 Table of Contents The value of goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had $113.7 million of goodwill and $14.2 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. As a community-based financial institution, earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold to meet the clients’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the ability to attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of the business lines can result in negative public opinion about the other business lines. We depend on the services of key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel may disrupt operations and result in reduced revenues. Our success depends upon the continued service of the senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out strategy. If we lose the services of key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. While our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market’s Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than stocks for larger companies quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in the stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on asset prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 15 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest margin and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. We may not be successful introducing new products and services in response to industry trends, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. While most of our core data processing is conducted internally, certain key applications are outsourced to third party providers. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third parties, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. To address these risks, we employ the following strategies: · Regular penetration testing of our network perimeter · Regular employee training programs around sound security practices · Deployment of tools to monitor the Bank’s network including intrusion prevention and detection systems, electronic mail spam filters, anti-virus and anti-malware, resource logging and patch management · The implementation of multifactor authentication for customers using internet banking and treasury management tools · The development of security policies and procedures for the addition and maintenance of user access and rights to resources. Our business is technology dependent, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, which may require substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services. In addition to better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and results in reduced costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create synergies in our operations through the use of technology, particularly in light of our past and projected growth strategy. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that technological improvements will increase operational efficiency or that it will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 16 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which anticipated benefits may not be fully realized. Acquisition opportunities will continue to be part of our growth strategy. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved in existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Management may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting our business while integrating an acquired company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can begin to acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, we cannot be certain when, or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition, in which case the acquisition could not be completed despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions, which could dilute stockholder ownership. Our operations rely on certain external vendors. We are reliant upon certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations. Accordingly, operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. We maintain a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition, (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services and (iv) changes in the vendor’s strategic focus. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 