risk factors, may merit more aggressive risk-reducing strategies, including treatment to lower LDL-cholesterol goals with statins. 6 Table of Contents GlaxoSmithKline has developed an Lp-PLA2 inhibitor, darapladib, which is currently in Phase III clinical trials. A first Phase III study commenced in December 2008 and is expected to be completed in October 2012. A second Phase III study commenced in December 2009. We believe that the ongoing Phase III studies of darapladib will continue to increase physician awareness of Lp-PLA2 and that if the FDA approves darapladib it could increase demand for our PLAC Tests. PLAC ELISA Test We introduced our initial PLAC ELISA Test product in 2004. Our PLAC ELISA Test uses microplate technologies to measure levels of Lp-PLA2. The infrastructure for performing microplate tests typically exist only at large and midsize clinical reference laboratories and large hospitals, which must be certified by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) for high-complexity diagnostics under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (“CLIA”). Smaller hospitals and clinics can order the PLAC ELISA Test for their patients from those institutions that are able to perform microplate tests and offer the PLAC ELISA Test. Patients can have their blood drawn at a local laboratory and shipped to the more advanced institutions for analysis. The PLAC ELISA Test is the only product that we currently market in the United States. PLAC TIA Test We introduced our initial PLAC TIA Test product in 2008. Our PLAC TIA Test allows for the measurement of Lp-PLA2 using automated clinical chemistry analyzer technology. This clinical chemistry technology is more prevalent than the microplate technology used for the PLAC ELISA Test and is less difficult to operate, such that a broader array of institutions can conduct the test. This includes clinical research laboratories and hospitals of all sizes and those physician operated laboratories (POLs) that are certified by DHHS for moderate-complexity diagnostics under the CLIA. On May 10, 2010, we began notifying our customers that we had temporarily suspended the commercialization of our PLAC TIA Test, and asked our customers to discontinue use of this product, due to heterophilic interference observed in a small number of samples tested. On June 30, 2010 we submitted a new premarket notification to the FDA seeking clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) to market an enhanced PLAC TIA Test product that addresses the heterophilic interference observed in the suspended PLAC TIA Test product. To facilitate continued reporting of Lp-PLA2 results in the interim, we have referred PLAC TIA Test customers to a selection of laboratories that provide the PLAC ELISA Test. On January 7, 2011, we announced that the FDA had granted clearance to market the enhanced PLAC TIA Test product. We intend to begin marketing this PLAC TIA Test product in the second quarter of 2011. Product Development We have ongoing product development efforts to create formats of the PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 for other analyzer technologies. Additional formats of the PLAC Test could permit the Company to broaden its market and to deepen market penetration into smaller POLs. Marketing & Distribution We market and distribute our products directly to several large national and regional clinical reference laboratories. We have a sales force that communicates directly with laboratory customers and with distributor sales staff. We also have a field application specialist group that supports the start-up of new laboratory customers and responds to their technical questions. Additionally, we maintain a product-focused website, www.plactest.com, from which interested parties may obtain general information and specific documents relating to the use and clinical performance of our PLAC Test. 7 Table of Contents We also use third party distributors, e.g., INOVA Diagnostics, Inc., to market and distribute our products to other clinical reference laboratories, hospitals and POLs. For the distribution of the enhanced PLAC TIA Test product, we anticipate that we will rely on third party distributors to reach hospitals and POLs. Our PLAC Tests ultimately are ordered from clinical reference laboratories, hospitals and POLs by physicians for their patients, so we and our participating laboratory customers often conduct physician education and awareness programs about Lp-PLA2 and about our PLAC Tests. Our top four distributor and large laboratory customers for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 accounted for 66% of our revenue compared to 65% for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. We expect this high degree of customer concentration to continue in the foreseeable future. Ongoing Studies Our sales depend in part on whether healthcare providers believe that our PLAC Tests provide incremental clinical utility and that treatment of individuals based on their Lp-PLA2 levels improves clinical outcomes. Our sales also depend on whether health insurers, government health programs and other third-party payors will issue positive coverage decisions, will pay for our diagnostic tests, and will reimburse sufficient amounts for the tests. Some of these payors require clinical outcomes studies before deciding whether to cover the tests. For these reasons, we are currently in the process of having banked samples from two prospective statin outcome studies tested and analyzed, with the aim of publishing the results in peer-reviewed publications. We anticipate that results from at least one of these studies will be published by the end of 2011. Manufacturing & Sources of Supply We currently depend on sole source, third-party manufacturers, Denka Seiken, BioCheck, Inc., and Diazyme Laboratories, to manufacture and supply our primary reagents and the different formats of our PLAC Test. The Company manufactures internally certain antibodies and antigens that are used as raw materials by Denka Seiken and BioCheck in the manufacturing of the reagents that are included in the PLAC Test products. Diazyme Laboratories uses the manufactured reagents from Denka Seiken to fill product kits, prepare final packaging and ship product to customers. The Company also depends on other key vendors and suppliers of materials, some of which are sole source or for whom an alternative could be difficult to find. Intellectual Property & Licenses We actively seek patent protection in the United States and other jurisdictions to protect technology, inventions, and improvements to inventions that are commercially important to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies. We currently own or have a license to 9 United States patents and 3 United States patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that relate to the Company’s current business. These issued patents have expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2016. We have exclusive licenses from SmithKlineBeecham Corp. (now GlaxoSmithKline) and ICOS Corporation (“ICOS”) (acquired by Eli Lilly and Company) to practice and commercialize technology covered by several United States patents and patent applications and their foreign counterparts. The exclusive license from GlaxoSmithKline and ICOS include exclusive rights to develop Lp-PLA2 as a diagnostic test and cover the relevant patents through their expiration dates, which range from 2013 to 2016. Competition We face competition from a number of life sciences companies in the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel diagnostic products for cardiovascular disease. Competing companies include, but 8 Table of Contents are not limited to, large public companies with significantly greater resources, such as Roche, Abbott, Siemens, Celera and Alere. Their products and associated therapies may compete indirectly with our current product offering by offering alternative products for the same clinical need and they may compete directly with our future product offerings. We are also aware that research may be underway at various government-financed entities worldwide, as well as at numerous academic institutions, to identify potential diagnostic markers and therapies for cardiovascular disease. Products developed from discoveries made by these entities and institutions may compete with our future product offerings. Because of our current exclusive licenses and patents, the Company believes it will be difficult for a competing company to commercialize an Lp-PLA2 product without an agreement from the Company. In the broader category of inflammatory biomarkers, the Company is aware that high sensitivity C-reactive protein (“hs-CRP”) tests are considered by some physicians to be competitive diagnostic blood tests and by other physicians to be complementary diagnostic blood tests. There are over a dozen manufacturers of hs-CRP tests and such tests are widely available to the same laboratory customers who purchase the Company’s Lp-PLA2 product. Research & Development We incurred approximately $4.9 million and $3.7 million of research and development expenses during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, which accounted for approximately 24% and 22% of our total operating expenses in these respective years. Government Regulation Our PLAC Test products are subject to regulation by the FDA under its authority to regulate medical devices. In the United States, medical devices are classified into one of three classes on the basis of the controls deemed by the FDA to be necessary to reasonably ensure their safety and effectiveness. Class I devices are subject to general controls, including labeling, premarket notification and adherence to the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation (“QSR”), which covers device-specific good manufacturing practices. Class II devices are subject to general controls and special controls, including performance standards and post-market surveillance. Class III devices are subject to premarket approval and most of the previously identified requirements. Most in vitro diagnostic devices are regulated as Class I or Class II devices, although certain diagnostic tests are classified as Class III devices. Our PLAC Test products are class II devices. Before we can market or sell a new product or make a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain marketing clearance through either a premarket notification under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or approval of a premarket approval application (“PMA”). A 510(k) premarket notice must demonstrate that the device in question is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed device that does not require premarket approval. The FDA is supposed to complete its review of a 510(k) notice within 90 days of submission, but it may request additional data, including clinical information, which increases the time necessary to review the notice. In January 2011, the FDA announced twenty-five action items it intends to take in reforming the 510(k) premarket review program, While the FDA has not detailed the precise nature of these reforms, the announcement of the action items signals that additional regulatory requirements may apply to future 510(k) premarket notices. A manufacturer must file a PMA (1) if the FDA rejects the 510(k) notice, (2) if the device is not substantially equivalent to a marketed device that does not require premarket approval or (3) if the use of a 510(k) notice is not otherwise appropriate. The PMA process is more complex, costly and time consuming than the 510(k) clearance procedure. A PMA must be supported by more detailed scientific evidence than a 510(k) notice. If the device is determined to present a “significant risk,” the sponsor of the trial must file an investigational device exemption (“IDE”), prior to commencing clinical trials. If the FDA approves the IDE application and the institutional 9 Table of Contents review boards at the institutions at which the clinical trials will be performed approve the clinical protocol and related materials, clinical trials may begin at a specific number of investigational sites with a specific number of patients, as approved by the FDA. Upon completion of the clinical trials, and assuming that the results indicate that the product is safe and effective for its intended purpose, the sponsor will then file a PMA. While the FDA is required to review a PMA in 180 days, it typically requests additional information and may refer the PMA to an FDA advisory committee for additional review. A PMA application can take several years to complete, and there is no assurance that any submitted PMA application will ever be approved. Even when approved, the FDA may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be sold. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the FDA will not request additional information or request the performance of additional clinical studies as a condition of approval or after the PMA is approved. Even when a product reaches the market, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems, such as material deficiencies or defects in design, labeling, or manufacture, or a potential unacceptable risk to health, with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including recall or withdrawal of the product from the market, and/or a requirement to submit a new 510(k) submission or PMA for the product in order to support continued marketing. For example, we suspended commercialization of the PLAC TIA Test product in May 2010 due to heterophilic interference observed in a small number of samples tested. We subsequently developed an enhanced PLAC TIA Test product to address the heterophilic interference issue and made a new 510(k) submission in June 2010, which was cleared by the FDA in January 2011. We may be forced to take similar actions in the future in response to previously unknown problems with our marketed products. In addition, we are required to comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice requirements contained in its QSR. The QSR covers among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of the medical devices. The QSR also requires maintenance of a device master record, device history record and complaint files. We are also subject to the FDA’s Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in which one of our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that could cause death or serious injury. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. medical device regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, repairs, replacements, refunds, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, the FDA’s refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals, withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications, and criminal prosecution, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are also subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical devices in the countries in which we manufacture or sell products. The member states of the European Union (“EU”) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which regulate the manufacture and distribution of medical devices in all EU member countries. These regulations require us to obtain CE marking for diagnostic tests, including our PLAC Tests, prior to marketing them in any EU member state. As of December 31, 2010, we have authorization to apply the CE marking to our PLAC ELISA Test product. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents used in connection with our research. Compliance with these laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. However, the extent of governmental regulation that might result from any legislative or administrative action cannot be accurately predicted. Reimbursement Currently, our largest markets are hospital laboratories and commercial reference laboratories in the U.S. Payment for testing in these markets is largely based on third-party payer reimbursement. The laboratory that performs the 10 Table of Contents test will submit an invoice to the patient’s insurance provider or to the patient if he is not covered by an insurance program. Each diagnostic procedure (and in some instances, specific technologies) is assigned a current procedural terminology (“CPT”) code by the American Medical Association. Each CPT code is then assigned a reimbursement level by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), formerly the U.S. Health Care Financing Administration. Third party insurance payers typically establish a specific fee to be paid for each code submitted. Third party payer reimbursement policies are generally determined with reference to the reimbursement for CPT codes for Medicare patients, which themselves are determined on a national basis by CMS. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 55 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. Available Information For more information about us, please visit our website at http://www.diadexus.com and our PLAC Test website at http://www.plactest.com. You may also obtain a free copy of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on the day the reports or amendments are filed with or furnished to the SEC by visiting our website at http://www.diadexus.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website or our PLAC Test website is not incorporated information and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a very high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information in our filings under the Exchange Act before making any investment decisions regarding our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know or that we currently deem immaterial may also negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations Our enhanced PLAC TIA Test was recently approved and its reintroduction may take more time and resources than we expect. On May 10, 2010, we began notifying our customers that we had temporarily suspended the commercialization of the PLAC TIA Test, and asked customers to discontinue use of this product, due to heterophilic interference observed in a small number of samples tested. On June 30, 2010 we submitted a premarket notification to the FDA seeking clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA to market an enhanced PLAC TIA Test product that addressed the heterophilic interference observed in the suspended PLAC TIA Test product. We received notice of the FDA clearance of the new 510(k) on January 6, 2011 and expect to reintroduce the product in the second quarter of 2011. Our failure to reintroduce the PLAC TIA Test product on a timely basis (or at all) would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to maintain or expand our business. 11 Table of Contents We are an early stage company and have engaged in only limited sales and marketing activities for our first product, the PLAC Test, which aids in assessing risk for both heart attack and ischemic stroke associated with atherosclerosis. Our products may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and therefore never generate substantial revenue or profits for the Company. As is the case with all novel biomarkers, we must establish a market for our PLAC Test and build that market through physician education and awareness programs. Publication in peer review journals of results from outcome studies using our products will be an important consideration in the adoption by physicians and in the coverage by insurers of our products. For example, we are currently in the process of having banked samples from two prospective statin outcome studies tested and analyzed, with the aim of generating publications in peer review journals that provide further support for the adoption of the PLAC Test by physicians and the coverage of the product by third party payors. If the results of these studies are not positive, or if physicians or third party payors disagree with our interpretation of the data, this effort may not be successful. Our ability to commercialize successfully the PLAC Test and other diagnostic products will depend on factors, including: • whether healthcare providers believe our PLAC Test and any other diagnostic tests that we successfully develop provide sufficient incremental clinical utility; • whether we are able to demonstrate that treatment of individuals based on their Lp-PLA2 levels improves clinical outcomes in prospective clinical studies; and • whether health insurers, government health programs and other third-party payors will cover and pay for our diagnostic tests and the amounts they will reimburse. We cannot assure that third-party payors will reimburse any of our products or that the level of reimbursement will be sufficient to realize a profit. The health care reimbursement system is in a constant state of change, including changes due to the enactment in 2010 of federal healthcare reform, and any change may adversely impact our business. These factors may present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our products, and we may need to devote substantial time and money to surmount these obstacles, and the result might not be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and failure to comply with such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business and our medical device products, including the PLAC Test, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations govern many aspects of our products and operations, and the products and operations of our suppliers and distributors, including premarket clearance and approval, design, development and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, safety and adverse event reporting, recalls, storage, advertising, promotion, sales and record keeping. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, warning letters, civil penalties, delays in clearance or approval of our products, recalls, and other operating restrictions, all of which could cause us to incur significant expenses. Before we can market or sell a new product or a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or approval of a pre-market approval application, or PMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the applicant must demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to obtain clearance from the FDA to market the proposed device. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, 12 Table of Contents technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing, and labeling data. The FDA can delay, limit, or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their intended users; • the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and • changes in FDA clearance or approval policies or the adoption of new regulations may require additional data. Further, any modification we make to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, would require us to seek a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, approval of a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications or PMAs for modifications to our previously cleared products for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Even when a product reaches the market, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems, such as material deficiencies or defects in design, labeling, or manufacture, or a potential unacceptable risk to health, with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including recall or withdrawal of the product from the market, and/or a requirement to submit a new 510(k) submission or PMA for the product in order to support continued marketing. For example, we suspended commercialization of the PLAC TIA product due to heterophilic interference observed in a small number of samples tested and sought a new 510(k) for the product. We may be forced to take similar actions in the future in response to previously unknown problems with our marketed products. We are also subject to routine inspection by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with Quality System Regulation (“QSR”), which establishes the good manufacturing practices for medical devices, and Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in which one of our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that could cause death or serious injury. Although we believe that we have adequate processes in place to ensure compliance with these requirements, the FDA or other regulatory bodies could force us to stop manufacturing, selling or exporting our products if it concludes that we are out of compliance with applicable regulations or if it concludes that our products pose an unacceptable risk to health or are otherwise deficient in design, labeling or manufacture. Further, the ability of our suppliers to supply critical components or materials and of our distributors to sell our products could be adversely affected if their operations are determined to be out of compliance. The FDA and other regulatory bodies could also require us to recall products if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, which could force us to stop manufacturing such products. Such actions by the FDA and other regulatory bodies would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Many national, regional, and local laws and regulations, including the recently-enacted healthcare reform legislation, have not been fully implemented by the regulatory authorities or adjudicated by the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make judgments with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators subsequently disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with these regulations, we could be subjected to various sanctions, including substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as product recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the sale of our products. Such sanctions could severely impair our reputation within the industry and 13 Table of Contents any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in January 2011, the FDA announced twenty-five action items it intends to take in reforming the 510(k) premarket review program, The FDA issued its recommendations and proposed action items in response to concerns from both within and outside of the FDA about the 510(k) program. Although the FDA has not detailed the specific modifications or clarifications that the Agency intends to make to its guidances, policies, and regulations pertaining to the review and regulation of devices such as ours which seek and receive marketing clearance through the 510(k) process, the FDA’s announced action items signal that additional regulatory requirements are likely. In particular, the FDA intends to issue a variety of draft guidances and regulations over the coming months which would, among other things, clarify when changes to a cleared medical device warrant a new 510(k) and which modifications would be eligible for a Special 510(k), establish a Unique Device Identification System, and clarify FDA’s use and application of several key terms in the 510(k) review process. These reforms, when implemented, could impose additional regulatory requirements upon us which could delay our ability to obtain new clearances, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current 510(k) clearances. We rely on sole source third parties to manufacture and supply certain raw materials, our main reagent and our PLAC Tests. If these manufacturers are unable to supply these raw materials, reagents and products in a timely manner, or at all, we may be unable to meet customer demand, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently depend on sole source, third party manufacturers, Denka Seiken, BioCheck, Inc., and Diazyme Laboratories, to manufacture and supply certain raw materials, our main reagent, and the different formats of our PLAC Test. We cannot assure you that these manufacturers will be able to provide these raw materials, reagents and products in quantities that are sufficient to meet demand or at all, in a timely manner, which could result in decreased revenues and loss of market share. There may be delays in the manufacturing process over which we have no control, including shortages of raw materials, labor disputes, backlog and failure to meet FDA standards. We are aware that certain of our sole source manufacturers rely on sole source suppliers with respect to materials used in our products. We rely on our third-party manufacturers to maintain their manufacturing facilities in compliance with FDA and other federal, state and/or local regulations including health, safety and environmental standards. If they fail to maintain compliance with FDA or other critical regulations, they could be ordered to curtail operations, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. Increases in the prices we pay our manufacturers, interruptions in our supply of raw materials, reagents or products, or lapses in quality, such as failure to meet our specifications or QSR and other regulatory requirements, could materially adversely affect our business. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after our products have been produced and distributed could result in significant consequences, including costly recall procedures and damage to our reputation. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult, because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. If we do undertake to negotiate terms of supply with another manufacturer or other manufacturers, our relationships with our existing manufacturers could be harmed. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials, reagents or product, or the inability to obtain these raw materials, reagents or product from alternate sources in a timely manner, could impair our ability to supply the PLAC Test and to meet the demands of our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is characterized by a high degree of customer concentration. Our four largest distributor and large laboratory customers accounted for 77% of our accounts receivable and 66% of our revenue as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010, respectively. The loss of one or more of these customers or a decline in revenue from one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Sales to a limited number of distributor and large laboratory customers account for a significant portion of our revenue and accounts receivable. Our dependence on and the identity of our key customers may vary from period to period as a result of competition among our customers, developments related to our products (such as the suspension of our PLAC TIA Test), and changes in individual customers’ purchases of our products for 14 Table of Contents profitability, inventory management or other reasons. The concentration of revenue from our top four customers for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 66% and was 65% for the year ended December 31, 2009. We may experience greater or lesser customer concentration in the future, depending on future commercial agreements and whether and when we are able to commercialize the PLAC TIA product. However, it is likely that our revenue and profitability will continue to be dependent on a very limited number of large laboratory companies and distributors, and we may experience an even higher degree of customer concentration in the future. The loss of, material reduction in sales volume to, or significant adverse change in our relationship with any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue in any given period and may result in significant annual and quarterly revenue variations. In addition, we may be unable to collect related accounts receivables when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The concentration of accounts receivable from our top four customers for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 77% and was 64% for the year ended December 31, 2009. We are reliant on the commercial success of our PLAC Test products. We are largely dependent on our main product line, the PLAC Test. We expect that the PLAC Test products will account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We do not know if our PLAC Test products will be successful over the long-term and it is possible that the demand for the product may decline over time. Any decline in demand or failure of the diaDexus PLAC Test products to penetrate current or new markets significantly could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursement may adversely affect our profitability. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products and other diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure. We face efforts by non-governmental third-party payors, including health plans, to reduce utilization of diagnostic testing services and reimbursement for diagnostic services. For instance, third-party payors often use the payment amounts under the Medicare fee schedules as a reference in negotiating their payment amounts. As a result, a reduction in Medicare reimbursement rates could result in a reduction in the reimbursements we receive from such third-party payors. Changes in test coverage policies of and reimbursement from other third-party payors may also occur independently from changes in Medicare. Third-party payors may refuse to reimburse for procedures and devices deemed to be experimental and investigational. Such reimbursement and coverage changes in the past have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and reduced accession volume and have added more complex and new regulatory and administrative requirements. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes, which are necessary for reimbursement of diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services establish reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules under Medicaid and Medicare, and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. Although the tests performed by our assays have previously assigned CPT Codes, we cannot guarantee that our future assays will be covered by such CPT codes and will, therefore, be approved for reimbursement by Medicare and Medicaid as well as most third-party payors. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our clinical diagnostic products or if they reduce reimbursement levels, our ability to sell our products will be harmed. We sell our products primarily through distributors and to large laboratory customers, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of 15 Table of Contents reimbursement for medical products and services. Increasingly, Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical services, including clinical diagnostic tests. Most of these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. Lower-than-expected, or decreases in, reimbursement amounts for tests performed using our products may decrease amounts physicians and other practitioners are able to charge patients, which in turn may adversely affect the willingness of physicians and other practitioners to purchase our products at prices we target, or at all. If we are unable to sell our products at target prices, our gross margins will suffer and our business could be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key employees and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We depend on the efforts and abilities of Patrick Plewman, our Chief Executive Officer, along with other senior management, our research and development staff and a number of other key management, sales, support, technical and administrative services personnel. Competition for experienced, high-quality personnel exists, and we cannot assure that we can continue to recruit and retain such personnel. Our failure to hire and retain such personnel would impair our ability to develop new products and manage our business effectively. We are an early stage company with a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for at least the next few years, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $187.5 million at December 31, 2010. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred a net loss of $8.4 million and $5.3 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur substantial net losses for at least the next few years. If we are unable to execute our commercialization strategy to achieve profitability, or if the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. We will need to raise additional capital to support our operations and to continue as a going concern. We will require additional funds to commercialize our products and develop new products. Our ability to fund our net losses and to conduct the required development activities related to any new product candidates will be significantly limited if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity or debt offerings, bank facilities, or other sources of capital. We do not know, however, whether additional financing will be available when needed, or whether it will be available on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain adequate financing also will likely adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If the combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property proves inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be harmed and we may never be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect proprietary discoveries, technology, and diagnostic tests that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can seek to prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. 16 Table of Contents Additionally, we have filed or have license rights to a number of patent applications that are in an early stage of prosecution, and we cannot make any assurances that any of the pending patent applications will result in patents being issued. In addition, due to technological changes that may affect our proposed products or judicial interpretation of the scope of our patents, our proposed products might not, now or in the future, be adequately covered by our patents. We have liabilities for real estate leases in excess of what is necessary for our current business. We will incur these additional expenses until our lease of a smaller facility expires or until we are able to sublease our larger leased facility. We have a significant real estate lease for a facility of approximately 65,000 square feet with current monthly minimum required expenses of approximately $200,000. The term of the lease continues until December 31, 2016. Our lease of a smaller facility continues until January 1, 2012, with current monthly minimum required expenses of approximately $90,000. We receive some reimbursement under a sublease of a portion of this property, which offsets a portion of our total monthly expenses under the lease. Until such time that (i) our lease expires and we choose to move our operations to the larger facility or (ii) we are able to sublease our larger leased facility, we will incur liabilities for real estate leases significantly in excess of what is necessary for our current business. We may never be able to sublease the larger facility. Also, the landlord of the larger leased facility has previously filed lawsuits to enforce actions that the landlord believes are protective of its leasehold interests. The landlord of the larger leased facility has asserted claims in writing against us that, among other things, we failed to provide it with required notice of the Reverse Merger, and has requested that we establish an escrow to fund remaining sums due under the lease. We believe that these claims are without merit and will vigorously resist any request for an escrow or other special consideration not required under the terms of the lease. However, we cannot assure you that the landlord will not commence legal proceedings against us relating to this lease. We license key intellectual property from GlaxoSmithKline and ICOS, and our contractual relationships have certain limitations. We have an exclusive license from GlaxoSmithKline and a co-exclusive license from ICOS to practice and commercialize technology covered by several issued and pending United States patents and their foreign counterparts. The majority of patents that relate to products currently sold by us will begin to expire in mid-2014. Several of our collaboration agreements with GlaxoSmithKline and ICOS provide licenses to use intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future with GlaxoSmithKline or with other third parties that change licenses of valuable technology. Current licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain circumstances. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we could lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our current and future products. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. Currently, our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks traded “over the counter” typically are subject to greater volatility than stocks traded on stock exchanges, such as the NASDAQ Stock Market, due to the fact that OTC trading volumes are generally significantly lower than those on stock exchanges. This lower volume may allow a relatively few number of stock trades to greatly affect the stock price. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. Some of the many factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include, in no particular order: • Actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our products; 17 Table of Contents • The progress and results of our product development efforts; • The outcome of legal actions to which we may become a party; • Our ability to commercialize the products, if any, that we are able to develop; • Changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; and • Restatements of our financial results and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls. The stock markets, and the markets for medical diagnostics and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. Our business, in particular the growth of our business, is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize novel diagnostic products and services based on biomarkers. If we fail to develop and commercialize diagnostic products, we may be unable to execute our business plan. Our long-term ability to generate product-related revenue will depend in part on our ability to develop additional formats or versions of the PLAC Test and other new diagnostic products. If internal efforts do not generate sufficient product candidates, we will need to identify third parties that wish to collaborate with us to develop new products and applications. Our ability to pursue successfully third-party relationships will depend in part on our ability to negotiate acceptable license and related agreements. Even if we are successful in establishing collaborative arrangements, they may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidate or the generation of any sales or royalty revenues. In addition, rapid technological developments and innovations characterize the markets for our products and services. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to correctly identify emerging trends, enhance capabilities, and develop and manufacture new products quickly, in a cost-effective manner, and at competitive prices. The development of new and enhanced products is a complex and costly process. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce such new products and enhancements. Our choices for developing products may prove incorrect if customers do not adopt the products we develop or if the products ultimately prove to be medically or commercially unviable. The discovery of performance problems may adversely affect development schedules. If we fail to timely develop and introduce competitive new products or additional formats of our existing products, our business, may be materially adversely affected. Any inability to protect our proprietary technologies and product candidates adequately could harm our competitive position. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We plan to continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. We cannot make assurances that our pending patent applications will issue as patents and, if they do, whether the scope of such claims will be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from utilizing our technologies, commercializing our discoveries or developing competing products. Any patents we currently hold, or obtain in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies, commercializing our discoveries, or developing competing technologies and products. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Third parties may challenge or invalidate our patents, or our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We have rights to patents and patent applications owned by GlaxoSmithKline, Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (“Human Genome Sciences”) and ICOS that provide important protection on the composition of matter and 18 Table of Contents utility of our products and product candidates. We do not, however, directly control the prosecution and maintenance of all of these patents. GlaxoSmithKline, Human Genome Sciences, and ICOS may not fulfill their obligations as licensors and may allow these patents to go abandoned or may not pursue meaningful claims for our products. Also, while the United States Patent and Trademark Office has issued diagnostic patents covering utility or methods, we do not know whether or how courts will enforce these patents. If a court finds these types of inventions to be unpatentable or interprets them narrowly, the benefits of our patent strategy may not materialize. If any or all of these events occur, they could diminish the value of our intellectual property. The requirements of being a public company have required and will continue to require significant resources, increase our costs and occupy our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. On July 28, 2010, we closed the Reverse Merger. The Reverse Merger was determined to constitute a reverse acquisition and Old diaDexus, a privately held company, was determined to be the acquirer for accounting purposes. Although Pre-Merger VaxGen was an operating company, its operations were insignificant compared to those of the post-merger entity. Because the financial statements and information relating to Old diaDexus now constitute our financial statements and information, we are in a position similar to a newly public company. As a company with public reporting responsibilities, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that Old diaDexus did not incur as a private company. Complying with rules, regulations and requirements applicable to public companies will require substantial effort and will increase our costs and expenses. Among other things, we are required to: • institute a more formalized function of internal control over financial reporting; • prepare and file and distribute periodic and current reports under the Exchange Act for a larger operating business and comply with other Exchange Act requirements applicable to public companies; • formalize old and establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading and disclosure controls and procedures; • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and • establish and maintain an investor relations function, including the provision of certain information on our website. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The securities laws require, among other things, that we implement and maintain effective internal control for financial reporting and disclosure. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with these requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. 19 Table of Contents Natural disasters, including earthquakes, may damage our facilities. Our corporate and manufacturing facilities are located in California. Our facilities in California are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. As a result, our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as fires, floods and similar events. Although we maintain general business insurance against fires and some general business interruptions, there can be no assurance that the scope or amount of coverage will be adequate in any particular case. Insurance specifically for earthquake risks is not available on commercially reasonable terms. We are not currently listed on a national exchange and there can be no assurance we will ever be listed. As a result of our failure to make timely filings of financial statements, we were delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market in 2004. Currently, our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol DDXS.OB. We have not yet applied for our common stock to be listed on a national exchange, and we do not currently meet all of the requirements for listing or relisting on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We do not know when, if ever, our common stock will be listed on a national stock exchange. In addition, we cannot be certain that the NASDAQ Stock Market will approve our stock for relisting or that any other exchange will approve our stock for listing. In order to be eligible for relisting or listing, we must meet the initial listing criteria for the NASDAQ Stock Market or another national exchange, including a minimum per share price. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of the Company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock. Our bylaws also provide that special stockholders meetings may be called only by our Board of Directors, Chairperson of the Board of Directors, or by our Chief Executive Officer or President, with the result that any third-party takeover not supported by the Board of Directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. Failure in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our business. Our ability to execute our business plan depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems, or IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 