ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that you should be aware of, some of which are described below. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the risk, uncertainties and other factors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or product market share and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. We have incurred operating losses and may not achieve profitability. We have a history of losses with an accumulated deficit of $192.8 million as of December 31, 2005. We may continue to incur losses in the future and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. Our quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results have varied greatly in the past and will likely vary greatly in the future depending upon a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our revenues, gross profit and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to, among other things: • business and economic conditions overall and in our markets; • the timing and amount of orders we receive from our customers that may be tied to budgetary cycles, product plans, seasonal demand or equipment roll-out schedules; • cancellations or delays of customer product orders, or the loss of a significant customer; 14 Table of Contents • our backlog and inventory levels; • our customer and distributor inventory levels and product returns; • competition; • new product announcements or introductions; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, if at all; • our ability to successfully market and sell products into new geographic or customer market segments; • the sales volume, product configuration and mix of products that we sell; • technological changes in the markets for our products; • reductions in the average selling prices that we are able to charge due to competition or other factors; • strategic acquisitions, sales and dispositions; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; • the timing and amount of marketing and research and development expenditures; and • costs related to events such as organizational restructuring, litigation and write-off of investments. Due to these and other factors, our revenues may not increase or even remain at their current levels. Because a majority of our operating expenses are fixed, a small variation in our revenues can cause significant variations in our operational results from quarter to quarter and our operating results may vary significantly in future periods. Therefore, our historical results may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. It is difficult to estimate operating results prior to the end of a quarter. We do not typically maintain a significant level of backlog. As a result, revenue in any quarter depends on contracts entered into or orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Historically, many of our customers have tended to make a significant portion of their purchases towards the end of the quarter, in part because they believe they are able to negotiate lower prices and more favorable terms. This trend makes predicting revenues difficult. The timing of closing larger orders increases the risk of quarter-to-quarter fluctuation in revenues. If orders forecasted for a specific group of customers for a particular quarter are not realized or revenues are not otherwise recognized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we may experience unexpected increases in demand for our products resulting from seasonal demand in our customers’ markets. These occurrences are not always predictable and can have a significant impact on our results in the period in which they occur. Our strategy to grow revenue and become profitable depends on our ability to identify and secure new customers and market opportunities at a faster rate than the rate of decline in our sales from legacy customers and products. Since 2003, sales of our legacy Digital TV products have been significantly lower than in previous periods, primarily due to competition for our traditional customer base. We have also experienced a reduction in sales of our PC Security products, due to the slow pace of anticipated large digital security projects that we believe could utilize our products. We have adopted a strategy to address our declining revenue that is based on introducing new Digital TV, PC Security and Flash Media Interface products to offset the rate of decline of our legacy Digital TV product sales and to address new market opportunities. To date, this strategy has been only partially successful. Our target markets have not grown or developed as quickly as we had expected, and we have experienced delays in the development of new products designed to take advantage of new market opportunities. Since new target markets are still evolving, it is difficult to assess the competitive environment or the size of the market that may develop. If our target markets do not develop and create demand for our products, if we are not able to complete, sell and ship new 15 Table of Contents products into the new markets we have identified, or if we are not able to compete against new or existing competitors in those markets, we may not be able to counter our revenue decline and our losses could increase. Our listing on the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange exposes our stock price to additional risks of fluctuation. Our common stock is listed both on the Nasdaq Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and we typically experience a significant volume of our trading on the Prime Standard. Because of this, factors that would not otherwise affect a stock traded solely on the Nasdaq Stock Market may cause our stock price to fluctuate. For example, European investors may react differently and more positively or negatively than investors in the United States to events such as acquisitions, dispositions, one-time charges and higher or lower than expected revenue or earnings announcements. A positive or negative reaction by investors in Europe to such events could cause our stock price to increase or decrease significantly. The European economy and market conditions in general, or downturns on the Prime Standard specifically, regardless of the Nasdaq Stock Market conditions, also could negatively impact our stock price. Our stock price has been and is likely to remain volatile. Over the past few years, the Nasdaq Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Exchange have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of the stocks of technology companies. For example, during the 12-month period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005, the closing prices for our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market ranged between $2.61 and $4.92 per share. Volatility in our stock price on either or both exchanges may result from a number of factors, including, among others: • variations in our or our competitors’ financial and/or operational results; • the fluctuation in market value of comparable companies in any of our markets; • expected, perceived or announced relationships or transactions with third parties; • comments and forecasts by securities analysts; • trading patterns of our stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market or Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange; • the inclusion or removal of our stock from market indices, such as groups of technology stocks or other indices; • any loss of key management; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • litigation developments; and • general market downturns. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. A significant portion of our sales typically comes from a small number of customers and the loss of one of more of these customers could negatively impact our operating results. Our products are generally targeted at OEM customers in the consumer electronics, digital photography, computer and conditional access system industries, as well as digital television operators, broadcasters and distributors, the government sector and corporate enterprises. Sales to a relatively small number of customers historically have accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenues. For example, three customers accounted for approximately 21% of our total net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2005 and three customers accounted for approximately 19% of our total net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2004. We expect that 16 Table of Contents sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our total sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of a customer or reduction of orders from a significant customer, including those due to product performance issues, changes in customer buying patterns, or market, economic or competitive conditions in our market segments, would increase our dependence on a smaller group of our remaining customers and could result in decreased revenues, decreased margins, and/or inventory or receivables write-offs and otherwise harm our business and operating results. Sales of our products depend on the development of several emerging markets. We sell our products primarily to emerging markets that have not yet reached a stage of mass adoption or deployment. If demand for products in these markets does not develop further and grow sufficiently, our revenue and gross profit margins could decline or fail to grow. We cannot predict the future growth rate, if any, or size or composition of the market for any of our products. The demand and market acceptance for our products, as is common for new technologies, is subject to high levels of uncertainty and risk and may be influenced by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • general economic conditions; • the uncertain pace of adoption in Europe and Asia of open systems digital television platforms that require conditional access modules, such as ours, to decrypt pay-TV broadcasts; • the ability of our competitors to develop and market competitive solutions in emerging markets and our ability to win business in advance of and against such competition; • the strength of entrenched security and set-top receiver suppliers in the United States who may resist the use of removable conditional access modules, such as ours, and prevent or delay opening the U.S. digital television market to greater competition; • the adoption and/or continuation of industry or government regulations or policies requiring the use of products such as our conditional access modules or smart card readers; • the timing of adoption of smart cards by the U.S. and other governments, European banks and other enterprises for large scale security programs beyond those in place today; • the ability of financial institutions, corporate enterprises and the U.S. government to agree on industry specifications and to develop and deploy smart card-based applications that will drive demand for smart card readers such as ours; and • the ability of high capacity flash memory cards to drive demand for digital media readers, such as ours, that enable rapid transfer of large amounts of data, for example digital photographs. Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue and result in costly litigation or liability. Products such as our conditional access modules and smart card readers may contain defects for many reasons, including defective design, defective material or software interoperability issues. Often, these defects are not detected until after the products have been shipped. If any of our products contain defects or perceived defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems or perceived problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly, we could lose or experience a delay in market acceptance of the affected product or products and we might be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales or our ability to recognize revenue for products shipped. In the event of an actual or perceived defect or other problem, we may need to invest significant capital, technical, managerial and other resources to investigate and correct the potential defect or problem and potentially divert these resources from other development efforts. If we are unable to provide a solution to the potential defect or problem that is acceptable to our customers, we may be required to incur substantial product recall, repair and replacement and even litigation costs. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents In addition, because our digital security customers rely on our products to prevent unauthorized access to their digital content, a malfunction of or design defect in our products (or even a perceived defect) could result in legal or warranty claims against us for damages resulting from security breaches. If such claims are adversely decided against us, the potential liability could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, the publicity associated with any such claim, whether or not decided against us, could adversely affect our reputation. In addition, a well-publicized security breach involving smart card-based and other security systems could adversely affect the market’s perception of products like ours in general, or our products in particular, regardless of whether the breach is actual or attributable to our products. Any of the foregoing events could cause demand for our products to decline, which would cause our business and operating results to suffer. If we do not accurately anticipate the correct mix of products that will be sold, we may be required to record charges related to excess inventories. Due to the unpredictable nature of the demand for our products, we are required to place orders with our suppliers for components, finished products and services in advance of actual customer commitments to purchase these products. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could result in costly excess production or inventories. In order to minimize the negative financial impact of excess production, we may be required to significantly reduce the sales price of the product to increase demand, which in turn could result in a reduction in the value of the original inventory purchase. If we were to determine that we could not utilize or sell this inventory, we may be required to write down its value, which we have done in the past. Writing down inventory or reducing product prices could adversely impact our cost of revenues and financial condition. We have paid taxes related to products previously purchased by a customer for which we may not receive reimbursement. In order to resolve tax liabilities related to products that we previously sold to a Digital TV customer, in April 2005 we were required to pay the French government approximately $4.7 million in Value Added Taxes (“VAT”), for which we had previously accrued the expense. In connection with this payment, we entered into an agreement with the customer that committed the customer to seek a refund from the French government for the VAT paid with respect to the products it purchased from us and then remit the refunded amount to us. On October 13, 2005 the French government refunded approximately $4.7 million to the customer. However, in December 2005 the customer filed a claim in France alleging participation by SCM Microsystems GmbH in the counterfeiting of their product and has not remitted the refunded VAT amount to us. Pending this litigation, and even after it is resolved, there is no assurance that the customer will remit to us the amount that has been refunded to it. Legal actions to defend against the claims made against us and to pursue reimbursement from or to enforce this agreement with the customer could result in significant expense, use our management’s time and resources and may not be successful. (See also “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” for further discussion of this lawsuit.) Our business could suffer if our third-party manufacturers cannot meet production requirements. Our products are manufactured outside the United States by contract manufacturers. Our reliance on foreign manufacturing poses a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing; • currency fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; • lack of control over the manufacturing process and ultimately over the quality of our products; 18 Table of Contents • late delivery of our products, whether because of limited access to our product components, transportation delays and interruptions, difficulties in staffing, or disruptions such as natural disasters; • capacity limitations of our manufacturers, particularly in the context of new large contracts for our products, whether because our manufacturers lack the required capacity or are unwilling to produce the quantities we desire; and • obsolescence of our hardware products at the end of the manufacturing cycle. In the second half of 2005 we shifted all product and component manufacturing that was previously performed by our employees to contract manufacturers, while continuing to manage demand planning, procurement and other related activities within SCM. The exclusive use of contract manufacturing reduces the flexibility we have in our operations and requires us to exercise strong planning and management skills in order to ensure that our products are manufactured timely, to correct specifications and to a high standard of quality. If any of our contract manufacturers cannot meet our production requirements, we may be required to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers. Despite efforts to do so, we may be unable to identify or qualify new contract manufacturers in a timely manner or at all or with reasonable terms and these new manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of our products from our current or alternative manufacturers would materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, if we are not successful at managing the contract manufacturing process, the quality of our products could be jeopardized or inventories could be too low or too high, which could result in damage to our reputation with our customers and in the marketplace, as well as possible write-offs of excess inventory. We have a limited number of suppliers of key component, and may experience difficulties in obtaining components for which there is significant demand. We rely upon a limited number of suppliers of several key components of our products, which may expose us to various risks including, without limitation, an inadequate supply of components, price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality. In addition, some of the basic components we use in our products, such as flash memory for our conditional access modules, are in great demand. This could result in the components not being available to us in a timely manner or at all, particularly if larger companies have ordered more significant volumes of the components, or in higher prices being charged for the components. Disruption or termination of the supply of components or software used in our products could delay shipments of these products. These delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with technological change and meet the needs of our target markets and customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the need to meet market requirements and to differentiate our products through technological enhancements, and in some cases, price. Our customers’ needs change, new technologies are introduced into the market, and industry standards are still evolving. As a result, product life cycles are often short and difficult to predict, and frequently we must develop new products quickly in order to remain competitive in light of new market requirements. Rapid changes in technology, or the adoption of new industry standards, could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If a product is deemed to be obsolete or unmarketable, then we might have to reduce revenue expectations or write down inventories for that product. For example, in the first quarter of 2005 we determined that we might no longer be able to sell certain of our Digital TV and PC Security products because they contain lead, which will be banned from use in electronic and electrical products in Europe beginning in July 2006 under the directive known as RoHS (Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment), which will come into force on July 1, 2006. As a result, we wrote down some Digital TV and PC Security product inventory in the first quarter of 2005. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products with clearly differentiated benefits that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers 19 Table of Contents and that keep pace with technological developments, new competitive product offerings and emerging industry standards. We must be able to demonstrate that our products have features or functions that are clearly differentiated from existing or anticipated competitive offerings, or we may be unsuccessful in selling these products. In addition, in cases where we are selected to supply products based on features or capabilities that are still under development, we must be able to complete our product design and delivery process on a timely basis, or risk losing current and any future revenue from those products. In developing our products, we must collaborate closely with our customers, suppliers and other strategic partners to ensure that critical development, marketing and distribution projects proceed in a coordinated manner. Also, this collaboration is important because these relationships increase our exposure to information necessary to anticipate trends and plan product development. If any of our current relationships terminate or otherwise deteriorate, or if we are unable to enter into future alliances that provide us with comparable insight into market trends, our product development and marketing efforts may be adversely affected, and we could lose sales. We expect that our product development efforts will continue to require substantial investments and we may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. In some cases, we depend upon partners who provide one or more components of the overall solution for a customer in conjunction with our products. If our partners do not adapt their products and technologies to new market or distribution requirements, or if their products do not work well, then we may not be able to sell our products into certain markets. Because we operate in markets for which industry-wide standards have not yet been fully set, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. If any of the standards supported by us do not achieve or sustain market acceptance, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products include: • the extent to which products must support existing industry standards and provide interoperability; • the extent to which standards are widely adopted and product interoperability is required within industry segments; • the extent to which products are differentiated based on technical features, quality and reliability, ease of use, strength of distribution channels and price; and • the ability of suppliers to develop new products quickly to satisfy new market and customer requirements. We currently experience competition from a number of companies in each of our target market segments and we believe that competition in our markets is likely to intensify as a result of anticipated increased demand for secure digital access products. We may not be successful in competing against offerings from other companies and could lose business as a result. In our Digital TV business, we are adversely affected by competition from companies that provide conditional access modules using unlicensed, emulated conditional access decryption systems. We have lost and will likely continue to lose business to these competitors and their presence causes us to implement more costly anti-piracy mechanisms on our own products to prevent their unlicensed use. We also experience indirect competition from certain of our customers who currently offer alternative products or are expected to introduce competitive products in the future. For example, we sell our products to many OEMs who incorporate our products into their offerings or who resell our products in order to provide a more complete solution to their customers. If our OEM customers develop their own products to replace ours, this would result in a loss of sales to those customers, as well as increased competition for our products in the marketplace. In addition, these OEM customers could cancel outstanding orders for our products, which could cause us to write down inventory already designated for those customers. We may in the future face competition from these and other parties that develop digital data security products based upon approaches similar to or different from those 20 Table of Contents employed by us. In addition, the market for digital information security and access control products may ultimately be dominated by approaches other than the approach marketed by us. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower end user price. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Therefore, new competitors, or alliances among competitors, may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Sales of our smart card readers to the U.S. government are impacted by uncertainty of timelines and budgetary allocations, as well as by the delay of standards for information technology (IT) projects. Historically, we have sold a significant proportion of our smart card reader products to the U.S. government and we anticipate that some portion of our future revenues will also come from the U.S. government. The timing of U.S. government smart card projects is not always certain. For example, while the U.S. government has announced plans for several new smart card-based security projects, none have yet reached a stage of sustained high volume card or reader deployment, in part due to delays in reaching agreement on specifications for a new federally mandated set of identity credentials. In addition, government expenditures on IT projects have varied in the past and we expect them to vary in the future. As a result of shifting priorities in the federal budget and in the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. government spending may be reallocated away from IT projects, such as smart card deployments. The slowing or delay of government projects for any reason could negatively impact our sales. We may have to take back unsold inventory from our customers. Although our contractual obligations to accept returned products from our distributors and OEM customers are limited, if demand is less than anticipated, these customers may ask that we accept returned products that they do not believe they can sell. We may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relations with our customers. While we have experienced few product returns to date, returns may increase beyond present levels in the future. Once these products have been returned, we may be required to take additional inventory reserves to reflect the decreased market value of slow-selling returned inventory, even if the products are in good working order. Large stock holdings outside the U.S. make it difficult for us to achieve quorum at stockholder meetings and this could restrict, delay or prevent our ability to implement future corporate actions, as well as have other effects, such as the delisting of our stock from the Nasdaq Stock Market. To achieve quorum at a regular or special stockholder meeting, at least one-third of all shares of our stock entitled to vote must be present at such a meeting in person or by proxy. As of April 25, 2005, the record date for our 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, more than two-thirds of our shares outstanding were held by retail stockholders in Germany, through German banks and brokers. Securities regulations and customs in Germany result in very few German banks and brokers providing our proxy materials to our stockholders and in very few stockholders voting their shares even when they do receive such materials. In addition, the absence of a routine “broker non-vote” in Germany typically requires the stockholder to return the proxy card to us before the votes it represents can be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum. We expect that a significant percentage of our shares will continue to be held by retail stockholders in Germany through German banks and brokers. As a result, it is difficult and costly for us, and requires considerable management resources, to achieve a quorum at annual and special meetings of our stockholders, if we are able to do so at all. For example, because of the large pool of shares in Germany that were not voted, we were obliged to adjourn our 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders twice after its original date of June 23, 2005, until October 20, 2005, in order to solicit enough votes to achieve quorum. This resulted in significant cost and diversion of 21 Table of Contents management resources from our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining proxies from a sufficient number of our stockholders to constitute a quorum in the future. If we are unable to achieve a quorum at a future annual or special meeting of our stockholders, corporate actions requiring stockholder approval could be restricted, delayed or even prevented. These include, but are not limited to, actions and transactions that may be of benefit to our stockholders, part of our strategic plan or necessary for our corporate governance, such as corporate mergers, acquisitions, dispositions, sales or reorganizations, financings, stock incentive plans or the election of directors. Even if we are able to achieve a quorum for a particular meeting, some of these actions or transactions require the approval of a majority of the total number of our shares then outstanding, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining such approval. The future failure to hold an annual meeting of stockholders may result in our being out of compliance with Delaware law and the qualitative listing requirements of the Nasdaq National Market, each of which requires us to hold an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our inability to obtain a quorum at any such meeting may not be an adequate excuse for such failure. In accordance with Section 211 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, if there has been a failure to hold an annual meeting, the Court of Chancery may order a meeting to be held upon the application of any stockholder or director. Lack of compliance with the qualitative listing requirements of the Nasdaq National Market could result in the delisting of our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Either of these events would divert management’s attention from our operations and would likely be costly and could also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We have global operations, which require significant financial, managerial and administrative resources. Our business model includes the management of three separate product lines that address three disparate market opportunities that are geographically dispersed. While there is some shared technology across our products, each product line requires significant research and development effort to address the evolving needs of our customers and markets. To support our development and sales efforts, we maintain company offices and business operations in several locations around the world. Managing our various development, sales and administrative operations places a significant burden on our financial systems and has resulted in a level of operational spending that is disproportionately high compared to our current revenue levels. Based on our business model and geographic structure, if we do not grow revenues, we will likely not reach profitability. Operating in diverse geographic locations also imposes significant burdens on our managerial resources. In particular, our management must: • divert a significant amount of time and energy to manage employees and contractors from diverse cultural backgrounds and who speak different languages; • travel between our different company offices; • maintain sufficient internal financial controls in multiple geographic locations that may have different control environments; • manage different product lines for different markets; • manage our supply and distribution channels across different countries and business practices; and • coordinate these efforts to produce an integrated business effort, focus and vision. Any failure to effectively manage our operations globally could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The restructuring of our business could result in significant cost and disruptions in our operations. Over the past several years, we have periodically made changes in our organizational structure in an effort to improve efficiencies in our business or otherwise strengthen our ability to operate competitively. In the future, we may from time to time pursue additional restructurings of our businesses and operations. There is no assurance, however, that any such restructurings will yield the benefits we contemplate or any benefits at all. In fact, any restructuring is likely to require us to incur significant expense and cost, including in connection with severance 22 Table of Contents payments to employees, lease write-offs or other facility reduction or closure costs. In addition, restructurings could have other negative consequences on our business and operations, including the following: • the movement of critical business functions from one location to another, which could cause disruptions in our ability to adequately perform those functions; • the loss of key personnel and their knowledge about our company, which could be difficult to replace; and • changes in our operations processes or procedures, which could cause disruption in our supply chain, delays in delivering new products and other issues that could result in our inability to fulfill our commitments to customers. Any of the foregoing events could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United States. Economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. We conduct a substantial portion of our business in Europe and Asia. Approximately 73% and 69% of our revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were derived from customers located outside the United States. Because a significant number of our principal customers are located in other countries, we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, a significant portion of our sales and operations may continue to be subject to risks associated with foreign operations, any of which could impact our sales and/or our operational performance. These risks include, but are not limited to: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions and stability, particularly in emerging markets; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • difficulty in managing widespread sales and manufacturing operations; and • less effective protection of intellectual property. Fluctuations in the valuation of foreign currencies could result in currency transaction losses. A significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies, principally the euro. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will continue to cause currency transaction gains and losses. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future quarterly and annual operating results. We may experience currency losses in the future. To date, we have not adopted a hedging program to protect us from risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. Our key personnel are critical to our business, and such key personnel may not remain with us in the future. We depend on the continued employment of our senior executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. If any of our key personnel were to leave and not be replaced, our business could be adversely affected. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. However, competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to retain our key technical and management employees or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future. 23 Table of Contents Likewise, as a small, dual-traded company, we are challenged to identify, attract and retain experienced professionals with diverse skills and backgrounds who are qualified and willing to serve on our Board of Directors. The increased burden of regulatory compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 creates additional liability and exposure for directors and financial losses in our business and lack of growth in our stock price make it difficult for us to offer attractive director compensation packages. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified board members, our ability to practice a high a level of corporate governance could be impaired. We are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and additional delays could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our initial sales cycle for a new customer usually takes a minimum of six to nine months. During this sales cycle, we may expend substantial financial and managerial resources with no assurance that a sale will ultimately result. The length of a new customer’s sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control. These factors include the customer’s product and technical requirements and the level of competition we face for that customer’s business. Any delays in the sales cycle for new customers could delay or reduce our receipt of new revenue and could cause us to expend more resources to obtain new customer wins. If we are unsuccessful in managing sales cycles, our business could be adversely affected. We face risks associated with strategic transactions. A component of our business strategy has been and is to seek to buy businesses, products and technologies that complement or augment our existing businesses, products and technologies. We have in the past acquired or made, and from time to time in the future may acquire or make, investments in companies, products and technologies that we believe are complementary to our existing businesses, products and technologies. Any future acquisition could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, the use of our limited cash balances or potentially dilutive stock offerings to fund such acquisitions; costs of any necessary financing, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; accounting charges we might incur in connection with such acquisitions; the difficulty and expense of integrating personnel, technologies, marketing efforts and facilities acquired through acquisitions; diversion of our management resources; failure to realize anticipated benefits; costly fees for legal and transaction-related services and the unanticipated assumption of liabilities. Any of the foregoing could have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that any such acquisition will be successful. Our business strategy also contemplates divesting portions of our business from time to time, if and when we believe we would be able to realize greater value for our stockholders in so doing. We have in the past sold, and may from time to time in the future sell, all or one or more portions of our business. Any such divestiture or disposition could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, costly fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; loss of key personnel; and reduction in revenue. In addition, we may be required to retain or indemnify the buyer against certain liabilities and obligations in connection with any such divestiture or disposition and we may also become subject to third party claims arising out of divestiture or disposition. For example, following the sale and disposition of our retail Digital Media and Video business in 2003, we were the recipient of a claim filed by DVDCre8, for which our defense has required significant expenditure of financial and management resources. In addition, any such divestiture or disposition could result in our recognition of an operating loss to the extent that the proceeds received by us in the divestiture or disposition are less than the book value of the assets sold. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we would be able to complete any such divestiture or disposition on reasonable terms or at all. We may be exposed to risks of intellectual property infringement by third parties. Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, which afford only limited protection. Although we often seek to protect our proprietary technology through patents, it is possible that no new patents will be issued, that our proprietary products or technologies are not patentable or that any issued patent will fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. 24 Table of Contents There has been a great deal of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights, and from time to time we may be required to use litigation to protect our proprietary technology. This may result in our incurring substantial costs and there is no assurance that we would be successful in any such litigation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to use our proprietary information and software without authorization. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Because many of our products are sold and a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, our exposure to intellectual property risks may be higher. Our means of protecting our proprietary and intellectual property rights may not be adequate. There is a risk that our competitors will independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around patents or other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property or our products or technologies are duplicated by others, our business could be harmed. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Standards Accounting Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting rules and policies. A change in those rules or policies could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. For example, under the recently issued Financial Accounting Standard Board Statement No. 123R, as of January 1, 2006 we are required to apply certain expense recognition provisions to share-based payments to employees using the fair value method. This new accounting policy and any other changes in accounting policies in the future may result in significant accounting charges. We believe that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material effect on our results of operations; however, we have not determined whether the adoption will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosure under FAS No. 123. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the pro forma expense disclosure under SFAS No. 123. We face costs and risks associated with maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting. Under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, on a quarterly basis our management is required to certify that effective internal controls are in place over financial reporting. The process of maintaining and evaluating the effectiveness of these controls is expensive, time-consuming and requires significant attention from our management and staff. We have found material weakness in our internal controls in the past and we cannot be certain in the future that we will be able to report that our controls are without material weakness or complete our evaluation of those controls in a timely fashion. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses that we would then be required to disclose. We may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results, and we might be subject to investigation by regulatory authorities. As a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in SCM and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. In addition, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. We face risks from litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation, which could include claims regarding infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, product defects, employment-related claims, and claims related to acquisitions, dispositions or restructurings. Any claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert 25 Table of Contents management resources, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, require us to accept return of product and to write off inventory, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. For example, in December 2005, a complaint was filed in France against SCM Microsystems GmbH, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, by Aston France S.A.S. alleging participation by SCM Microsystems GmbH in the counterfeiting of Aston’s conditional access modules and claiming damages in the amount of 57 million EUR. Our defense of such claim may result in our incurrence of significant expense and cost and demand significant use of our management’s limited time and resources. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against Aston’s claims in a timely manner or at all. If these claims are decided against us, the result may have a material and adverse effect on our company. We expect the likelihood of intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our markets grows and as we increasingly incorporate third-party technology into our products. As a result of infringement claims, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third party or redesign our products. Licenses may not be offered when we need them or on acceptable terms. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments or we may be required to license some of our intellectual property to others in return for such licenses. If we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary for us or our third party manufacturers to manufacture our allegedly infringing products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We may also be unsuccessful in redesigning our products. Our suppliers and customers may be subject to infringement claims based on intellectual property included in our products. We have historically agreed to indemnify our suppliers and customers for patent infringement claims relating to our products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorney’s fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third-party claims for patent infringement. We are exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivable. This risk is heightened in times of economic weakness. We distribute our products both through third-party resellers and directly to certain customers. A substantial majority of our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. While we seek to monitor and limit our exposure to credit risk on our trade and non-trade receivables, we may not be effective in limiting credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, if the global economy and regional economies deteriorate, one or more of our customers could experience a weakened financial condition and we could incur a material loss or losses as a result. Factors beyond our control could disrupt our operations. We face a number of potential business interruption risks that are beyond our control. For example, in past periods, the State of California experienced intermittent power shortages and interruption of service to some business customers. Additionally, we may experience natural disasters that could disrupt our business. For example, our corporate headquarters are located near a major earthquake fault. Power shortages, earthquakes or other disruptions could affect our ability to report timely financial statements. Provisions in our agreements, charter documents, Delaware law and our rights plan may delay or prevent our acquisition by another company, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or enter into a material transaction with us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. 26 Table of Contents We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The triggering and exercise of the rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. While the rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of our company, they may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of us that was deemed to be undesirable by our Board of Directors. Although we believe the above provisions and the adoption of a rights plan may provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions will apply even if the offer were to be considered adequate by some of our stockholders. Also, because these provisions may be deemed to discourage a change of control, they could decrease the value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS SCM has no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 