Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a very high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information in our filings under the Exchange Act before making any investment decisions regarding our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know or that we currently deem immaterial may also negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations We have withdrawn our 510(k) application for FDA clearance of our PLAC Activity Test, and we may be unable to submit a subsequent 510(k) application or to obtain clearance with respect to such application. On June 17, 2011, we submitted a premarket notification to the FDA seeking clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA to market our PLAC Activity Test. This new assay measures the activity levels of the Lp-PLA2 enzyme in the blood, while the currently marketed PLAC Test utilizes an ELISA method which measures the concentration of the enzyme. The Lp-PLA2 activity assay is capable of running on automated, high throughput clinical chemistry analyzers unlike the current PLAC ELISA Test. Future commercialization of an assay capable of running on automated, high throughput clinical chemistry analyzers may be important for the expansion of the PLAC Tests market and revenue growth. On October 24, 2011, we elected to withdraw this application following discussions with the FDA. We plan to develop a new submission. We are in the process of identifying completed clinical trials acceptable to the FDA from which blood samples of patient cohorts may be obtained and then tested to demonstrate the effectiveness of the PLAC Activity Test. There can be no guarantee that we will identify appropriate clinical trials, or that serum samples can be obtained from such trials to support retesting of PLAC Activity Test. We cannot assure you that the results of any such clinical trials will support the proposed clinical claims. There can be no guarantee that the FDA will clear the subsequent 510(k) submission on a timely basis, or at all. Failure to receive clearance for the PLAC Activity Test on a timely basis (or at all) may result in a loss of potential customers and would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to maintain or expand our business. 12 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our ability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key employees and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We depend on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, along with other senior management, our research and development staff and a number of other key management, sales, support, technical and administrative services personnel. Competition for experienced, high-quality personnel exists, and we cannot assure you that we can continue to recruit and retain such personnel. Recently, we have undergone significant changes in senior management, including changes in our chief executive officer and the chief financial officer. This transition to a new management team may be disruptive to our operations and create uncertainty about our ability to implement our business strategy and/or raise additional capital, and our business may be materially adversely affected. Our failure to hire, train and retain qualified personnel would impair our ability to develop new products and manage our business effectively. We are an early stage company and have engaged in only limited sales and marketing activities for our first products, the PLAC Tests. Our products may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and therefore never generate substantial revenue or profits for the Company. As is the case with all novel biomarkers, we must establish a market for our PLAC Tests and build that market through physician education and awareness programs. Publication in peer review journals of results from outcome studies using our products will be an important consideration in the adoption by physicians and in the coverage by insurers of our products. Our ability to commercialize successfully the PLAC Tests and other diagnostic products will depend on factors, including: • whether healthcare providers believe our PLAC Tests and any other diagnostic tests that we successfully develop provide sufficient incremental clinical utility; • whether we are able to demonstrate that treatment of individuals based on their Lp-PLA2 levels improves clinical outcomes in prospective clinical studies; and • whether health insurers, government health programs and other third-party payors will cover and pay for our diagnostic tests and the amounts they will reimburse. These factors may present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our products, and we may need to devote substantial time and money to surmount these obstacles, and the result might not be successful. Our business is characterized by a high degree of customer concentration. Our four top customers accounted for 92% of our accounts receivable and 81% of our revenue as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, respectively. The loss of one or more of these customers or a decline in revenue from one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Sales to a limited number of large laboratory customers account for a significant portion of our revenue and accounts receivable. Our dependence on and the identity of our key customers may vary from period to period as a result of competition among our customers, developments related to our products, and changes in individual customers’ purchases of our products. The concentration of revenue from our top four customers was 81% and 66% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We may experience greater or lesser customer concentration in the future, depending on future commercial agreements and whether we are able to grow our revenue from the PLAC Activity Test. However, it is likely that our revenue and profitability will continue to be dependent on a very limited number of large laboratory companies and distributors, and we may experience an even higher degree of customer concentration in the future. The loss of, material reduction in sales volume to, or significant adverse change in our relationship with any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue in any given period and may result in significant annual and quarterly revenue variations. Moreover, our largest customers are able to exert greater influence over our product pricing, which has led to a decline in average sales price in recent quarters. Such downward pressure on our pricing has the 13 Table of Contents potential to continue. In addition, we may be unable to collect related accounts receivables when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The concentration of accounts receivable from our top four customers was 92% and 77% as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We rely on a sole source third party to manufacture our PLAC ELISA Test. If this manufacturer is unable to supply our products in a timely manner, or at all, we may be unable to meet customer demand, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently depend on a sole source, third party manufacturer, BioCheck, Inc., to manufacture our PLAC ELISA Test. We cannot assure you that this manufacturer will be able to provide the products in quantities that are sufficient to meet demand or at all, in a timely manner, which could result in decreased revenues and loss of market share. We also depend on other key vendors and suppliers of materials, some of which are sole source or for whom an alternative could be difficult to find. There may be delays in the manufacturing process over which we have no control, including shortages of raw materials, labor disputes, backlog and failure to meet FDA standards. We are aware that our sole source manufacturer relies on sole source suppliers with respect to materials used in our products. We rely on our third-party manufacturer to maintain their manufacturing facility in compliance with FDA and other federal, state and/or local regulations including health, safety and environmental standards. If they fail to maintain compliance with FDA or other critical regulations, they could be ordered to curtail operations, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. Increases in the prices we pay our manufacturer, or lapses in quality, such as failure to meet our specifications or QSR and other regulatory requirements, could materially adversely affect our business. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after our products have been produced and distributed could result in significant consequences, including costly recall procedures and damage to our reputation. Our ability to replace the existing manufacturer may be difficult, because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. If we do undertake to negotiate terms of supply with another manufacturer or other manufacturers, our relationships with our existing manufacturer could be harmed. Any interruption in the supply of product, or the inability to obtain the product from alternate sources in a timely manner, could impair our ability to supply the PLAC ELISA Test and to meet the demands of our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We manufacture our PLAC Activity Test on-site in South San Francisco, California. It is our first time manufacturing a product in house and we could experience process, quality control and shipping problems due to the early stage of manufacturing. We have developed manufacturing of the PLAC Activity Test in house. We are dependent on the expertise of the personnel that developed and manufacture the product. As with any new products, we could observe performance deviations that have not been apparent during development, including performance and stability of the PLAC Activity Test. The discovery of such performance deviations or of any manufacturing problems may adversely affect our sales in Europe. We rely on the commercial success of our PLAC Tests. We are solely dependent on our product line of PLAC Tests. We expect that the PLAC Tests will account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We do not know if our PLAC Tests will be successful over the long-term and it is possible that the demand for the product may decline over time. Any decline in demand or failure of our PLAC Tests to penetrate current or new markets significantly could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our clinical diagnostic products or if they reduce reimbursement levels, our ability to sell our products will be harmed. We sell our products primarily through distributors and to large laboratory customers, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of 14 Table of Contents reimbursement for medical products and services. Increasingly, all payors are challenging the prices charged for diagnostic tests. Most of these third-party payors may deny coverage and reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not medically necessary or not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. Lower-than-expected, or decreases in, reimbursement amounts for tests performed using our products may decrease amounts physicians and other practitioners are able to charge patients, which in turn may adversely affect the willingness of physicians and other practitioners to purchase our products at prices we target, or at all. If we are unable to sell our products at target prices, our revenue and gross margins will suffer and our business could be materially harmed. Our business, in particular the growth of our business, is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize novel diagnostic products and services based on biomarkers. If we fail to develop and commercialize diagnostic products, we may be unable to execute our business plan. Our long-term ability to generate product-related revenue will depend in part on our ability to develop additional formats or versions of the PLAC Tests and other new diagnostic products. If internal efforts do not generate sufficient product candidates, we will need to identify third parties that wish to collaborate with us to develop new products and applications. Our ability to pursue successfully third-party relationships will depend in part on our ability to negotiate acceptable license and related agreements. Even if we are successful in establishing collaborative arrangements, they may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidate or the generation of any sales or royalty revenues. In addition, rapid technological developments and innovations characterize the markets for our products and services. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to correctly identify emerging trends, enhance capabilities, and develop and manufacture new products quickly, in a cost-effective manner, and at competitive prices. The development of new and enhanced products is a complex and costly process. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce such new products and enhancements. Our choices for developing products may prove incorrect if customers do not adopt the products we develop or if the products ultimately prove to be medically or commercially unviable. The discovery of performance problems may adversely affect development schedules. If we fail to timely develop and introduce competitive new products or additional formats of our existing products, our business, may be materially adversely affected. International expansion of our business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our business strategy incorporates international expansion, including establishing and maintaining direct sales and physician outreach and education capabilities outside of the United States and expanding our relationship with distributors. Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • failure by us or our distributors to obtain regulatory approvals for the use of our tests in various countries; • difficulties in staffing with managing foreign operations; • complexities associated with managing multiple payor reimbursement regimes or patient self-pay systems; • logistics and regulations associated with shipping, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays; • limits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to process tests locally; • financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 15 Table of Contents • natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors’ activities that may fall within purview of the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, its books and records provisions or its anti-bribery provisions. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international expansion and operations and, consequently, our revenues and results of operations. Our dependence on distributors for foreign sales of our PLAC Activity Test could limit or prevent us from selling our test in Europe and from realizing long-term international revenue growth. As of December 31, 2011, we had exclusive distribution agreements for our products in 14 European countries, and we may enter into other similar arrangements in other countries in the future. We intend to grow our business internationally, and to do so we may need to attract additional distributors to expand the territories in which we sell our PLAC Activity Test. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our PLAC Tests to the level of our expectations. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize long-term international revenue growth. The requirements of being a public company have required and will continue to require significant resources, increase our costs and occupy our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. On July 28, 2010, we closed the Reverse Merger. The Reverse Merger was determined to constitute a reverse acquisition and Old diaDexus, a privately held company, was determined to be the acquirer for accounting purposes. Although Pre-Merger VaxGen was an operating company, its operations were insignificant compared to those of the post-merger entity. The financial statements and information relating to Old diaDexus now constitute our financial statements and information. As a company with public reporting responsibilities, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that Old diaDexus did not incur as a private company. Complying with rules, regulations and requirements applicable to public companies will require substantial effort and will increase our costs and expenses. Among other things, we are required to: • prepare and file and distribute periodic and current reports under the Exchange Act for a larger operating business and comply with other Exchange Act requirements applicable to public companies; • formalize old and establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading and disclosure controls and procedures; • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and • establish and maintain an investor relations function, including the provision of certain information on our website. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The securities laws require, among other things, that we implement and maintain effective internal control for financial reporting and disclosure. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal 16 Table of Contents control over financial reporting. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with these requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, may damage our facilities. Our corporate and manufacturing facilities are located in California. Our facilities in California are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. As a result, our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as fires, floods and similar events. Although we maintain general business insurance against fires and some general business interruptions, there can be no assurance that the scope or amount of coverage will be adequate in any particular case. Insurance specifically for earthquake risks is not available on commercially reasonable terms. Failure in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our business. Our ability to execute our business plan depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems, or IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Risks Relating to Government Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and failure to comply with such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business and our medical device products, including our PLAC Tests, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations govern many aspects of our products and operations, and the products and operations of our suppliers and distributors, including premarket clearance and approval, design, development and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, safety and adverse event reporting, recalls, storage, advertising, promotion, sales and record keeping. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, warning letters, civil penalties, delays in clearance or approval of our products, recalls, and other operating restrictions, all of which could cause us to incur significant expenses. Before we can market or sell a new product or a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or approval of a pre-market approval application, or PMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the applicant must demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to obtain clearance from the FDA to market the proposed device. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate 17 Table of Contents the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing, and labeling data. The FDA can delay, limit, or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their intended users; • the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and • changes in FDA clearance or approval policies or the adoption of new regulations may require additional data. Further, any modification we make to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, would require us to seek a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, approval of a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications or PMAs for modifications to our previously cleared products for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Even when a product reaches the market, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems, such as material deficiencies or defects in design, labeling, or manufacture, or a potential unacceptable risk to health, with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including recall or withdrawal of the product from the market, and/or a requirement to submit a new 510(k) submission or PMA for the product in order to support continued marketing. We and our suppliers are subject to inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and failure to pass these audits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to routine inspection by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with QSR, which establishes the good manufacturing practices for Medical Devices, and Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in which one of our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that could cause death or serious injury. Although we believe that we have adequate processes in place to ensure compliance with these requirements, the FDA or other regulatory bodies could force us to stop manufacturing, selling or exporting our products if it concludes that we are out of compliance with applicable regulations or if it concludes that our products pose an unacceptable risk to health or are otherwise deficient in design, labeling or manufacture. Further, the ability of our suppliers to supply critical components or materials and of our distributors to sell our products could be adversely affected if their operations are determined to be out of compliance. The FDA and other regulatory bodies could also require us to recall products if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, which could force us to stop manufacturing such products. Such actions by the FDA and other regulatory bodies would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We are and will be subject to new regulations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Many national, regional, and local laws and regulations, including the recently-enacted healthcare reform legislation, have not been fully implemented by the regulatory authorities or adjudicated by the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make 18 Table of Contents judgments with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators subsequently disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with these regulations, we could be subjected to various sanctions, including substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as product recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the sale of our products. Such sanctions could severely impair our reputation within the industry and any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in January 2011, the FDA announced twenty-five action items it intends to take in reforming the 510(k) premarket review program. The FDA issued its recommendations and proposed action items in response to concerns from both within and outside of FDA about the 510(k) program. Although the FDA has not detailed the specific modifications or clarifications that the Agency intends to make to its guidance, policies, and regulations pertaining to the review and regulation of devices such as ours which seek and receive marketing clearance through the 510(k) process, the FDA’s announced action items signal that additional regulatory requirements are likely. In particular, the FDA intends to issue a variety of draft guidance and regulations over the coming months which would, among other things, clarify when changes to a cleared medical device warrant a new 510(k) and which modifications would be eligible for a Special 510(k), establish a Unique Device Identification System, and clarify FDA’s use and application of several key terms in the 510(k) review process. These reforms, when implemented, could impose additional regulatory requirements upon us which could delay our ability to obtain new clearances, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current 510(k) clearances. Healthcare reform and restrictions on coverage and reimbursement may adversely affect our profitability. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products and other diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure. We face efforts by non-governmental third-party payors, including health plans, to reduce utilization of diagnostic testing services and reimbursement for diagnostic services. For instance, third-party payors often use the payment amounts under the Medicare fee schedules as a reference in negotiating their payment amounts. As a result, a reduction in Medicare reimbursement rates could result in a reduction in the reimbursements we receive from such third-party payors. Changes in test coverage policies of and reimbursement from other third-party payors may also occur independently from changes in Medicare. Third-party payors may refuse to cover and reimburse for procedures and devices deemed to be experimental and investigational. Such reimbursement and coverage changes in the past have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and reduced accession volume and have added more complex and new regulatory and administrative requirements. We cannot assure that third-party payors will cover and reimburse any of our products or that the level of reimbursement will be sufficient to realize a profit. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes, which are necessary for reimbursement of diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services establish payment levels and coverage rules under Medicare, and private payors and state Medicaid programs establish rates and coverage rules independently. Although the tests performed by our assays are described by existing CPT codes, we cannot guarantee that our future assays will be covered by such CPT codes and will, therefore, be approved for reimbursement by Medicare and Medicaid as well as most third-party payors. In March 2010, U.S. President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which makes a number of substantial changes in the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among other things, the PPACA mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule of 1.75% for the years 2011 through 2015. In addition, a productivity adjustment is made to the fee schedule payment amount. In addition, the PPACA establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board (“IPAB”) to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending. The IPAB has broad discretion to propose policies, which may have a negative impact on payment rates for services, including clinical laboratory services, beginning in 2016, and for hospital services beginning in 2020. Although some of these provisions may negatively impact payment rates for clinical laboratory services, the PPACA also extends coverage to approximately 32 million previously uninsured people, which may result in an increase in the demand for our tests and services. A number of state governors have strenuously opposed the 19 Table of Contents mandatory purchase of insurance, known as the individual mandate, and initiated lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of certain provisions of the PPACA. Many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the United States Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach the required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. The full impact on our business of the PPACA and the new law is uncertain. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. We are subject to healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. We are also subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; • the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. 20 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Liquidity Our term loan contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business, and the lender may accelerate repayment of amounts outstanding under certain circumstances. In September 2011, we entered into a loan and security agreement with a bank. This loan contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • Sell, transfer, lease or dispose of our assets; • Create, incur or assume additional indebtedness; • Encumber or permit liens on certain of our assets; • Pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions with respect to our common stock; • Make specified investments; • Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • Enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. If we breach of any of these covenants, are unable to make a required payment of principal or interest, or experience a material adverse change to our business, it could result in a default under the loan. Additionally, we are required to achieve revenues equal to at least 80% of monthly projections approved by our Board of Directors and provided to the bank, and our failure to do so could result in a default under the loan. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the loan, the bank could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the bank could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, as collateral under the loan. We will need to raise additional capital to support our operations in the future. We will require additional funds to commercialize our products and develop new products. Our ability to fund our net losses and to conduct the required development activities related to any new product candidates will be significantly limited if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital. We will seek to raise funds through equity or debt offerings, bank facilities, or other sources of capital. Additional funding may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise any such additional funding. We are an early stage company with a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for at least the next few years, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $194.9 million at December 31, 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we incurred a net loss of $7.5 million and $8.4 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur substantial net losses for at least the next few years. If we are unable to execute our commercialization strategy to achieve profitability, or if the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. We have liabilities for real estate leases in excess of what is necessary for our current business. We will incur these additional expenses until we are able to sublease a portion of our larger leased facility. We have a significant real estate lease for a facility of approximately 65,000 square feet with current monthly minimum required expenses of approximately $220,000. The term of the lease continues until December 31, 21 Table of Contents 2016. Until such time that we are able to sublease a portion of our larger leased facility, we will incur liabilities for real estate leases significantly in excess of what is necessary for our current business. We may never be able to sublease a portion of the larger facility. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If the combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property proves inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be harmed and we may never be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect proprietary discoveries, technology, and diagnostic tests that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can seek to prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. Additionally, we have filed or have license rights to a number of patent applications that are in an early stage of prosecution, and we cannot make any assurances that any of the pending patent applications will result in patents being issued. In addition, due to technological changes that may affect our proposed products or judicial interpretation of the scope of our patents, our proposed products might not, now or in the future, be adequately covered by our patents. Moreover, the U.S. Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, enacted in September 2011, brings significant changes to the U.S. patent system, which include a change to a “first to file” system from a “first to invent” system and changes to the procedures for challenging issued patents and disputing patent applications during the examination process, among other things. The effects of these changes on our patent portfolio and business have yet to be determined, as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office must still implement regulations relating to these changes and U.S. courts have yet to address the new provisions, but in any event, these changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our patent rights. We license key intellectual property from GlaxoSmithKline and ICOS, and our contractual relationships have certain limitations. We have an exclusive license from GlaxoSmithKline and a co-exclusive license from ICOS Corporation (“ICOS”) to practice and commercialize technology covered by several issued and pending United States patents and their foreign counterparts. The issued patents that relate to the Company’s current business have expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2016. Several of our collaboration agreements with GlaxoSmithKline and ICOS provide licenses to use intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future with GlaxoSmithKline or with other third parties that change licenses of valuable technology. Current licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain circumstances. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we could lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our current and future products. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. Any inability to protect our proprietary technologies and product candidates adequately could harm our competitive position. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade 22 Table of Contents secrets. We plan to continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. We cannot make assurances that our pending patent applications will issue as patents and, if they do, whether the scope of such claims will be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from utilizing our technologies, commercializing our discoveries or developing competing products. Any patents we currently hold, or obtain in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies, commercializing our discoveries, or developing competing technologies and products. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Third parties may challenge or invalidate our patents, or our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We have rights to patents and patent applications owned by GlaxoSmithKline, Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (“Human Genome Sciences”) and ICOS that provide important protection on the composition of matter and utility of our products and product candidates. We do not, however, directly control the prosecution and maintenance of all of these patents. GlaxoSmithKline, Human Genome Sciences, and ICOS may not fulfill their obligations as licensors and may allow these patents to go abandoned or may not pursue meaningful claims for our products. Also, while the United States Patent and Trademark Office has issued diagnostic patents covering utility or methods, we do not know whether or how courts will enforce these patents. If a court finds these types of inventions to be unpatentable or interprets them narrowly, the benefits of our patent strategy may not materialize. If any or all of these events occur, they could diminish the value of our intellectual property. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price is likely to be volatile. Currently, our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks traded “over the counter” typically are subject to greater volatility than stocks traded on stock exchanges, such as the NASDAQ Stock Market, due to the fact that OTC trading volumes are generally significantly lower than those on stock exchanges. This lower volume may allow a relatively few number of stock trades to greatly affect the stock price, particularly where the trading price of the stock price is relatively low. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. Some of the many factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include, in no particular order: • Actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our products; • The progress and results of our product development efforts; • The outcome of legal actions to which we may become a party; • Our ability to commercialize the products, if any, that we are able to develop; • Changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; and • Restatements of our financial results and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls. The stock markets and the markets for medical diagnostics and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. We are not currently listed on a national exchange and there can be no assurance we will ever be listed. As a result of our failure to make timely filings of financial statements, we were delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market in 2004. Currently, our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol DDXS.OB. We have not yet applied for our common stock to be listed on a national exchange, and we do not 23 Table of Contents currently meet all of the requirements for listing or relisting on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We do not know when, if ever, our common stock will be listed on a national stock exchange. In addition, we cannot be certain that The NASDAQ Stock Market will approve our stock for relisting or that any other exchange will approve our stock for listing. In order to be eligible for relisting or listing, we must meet the initial listing criteria for The NASDAQ Stock Market or another national exchange, including a minimum per share price. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of the Company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock. Our bylaws also provide that special stockholders meetings may be called only by our Board of Directors, Chairperson of the Board of Directors, or by our Chief Executive Officer or President, with the result that any third-party takeover not supported by the Board of Directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 