ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS, THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK, HISTORICAL FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY RESULTS AND POTENTIAL FUTURE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS THE EFFECTS OF THE RECENT GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS MAY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION The current global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments have negatively affected our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways and could continue to do so. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or not pay us or delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. These conditions are particularly evident in the automotive industry, which is an important market segment for QAD. In addition, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities (including the timing and amount of any dividend payments or repurchases of our common stock or debt we may declare or make in the future). Finally, our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. RISK OF FLUCTUATIONS IN REVENUE AND EXPENSE Because of the significant fluctuations in our revenue, period-to-period comparisons of our revenue or profit may not be meaningful. As a result, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our revenue will grow in future periods or that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. A significant portion of our revenue in any quarter may be derived from a limited number of large, non-recurring license sales. We may experience large individual license sales, which may cause significant variations in license fees. We also believe that the purchase of our products is discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of a customer’s capital resources. Therefore, a downturn in any significant customer’s business could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and profit. The services business may fluctuate. Services revenue remains a substantial part of our business. Services revenue is dependent upon the timing and size of customer orders to provide the services, as well as upon our related license sales. In addition, continuous engagement services, such as Application Management Services (“AMS”) and our On Demand (or SaaS) offerings, may involve fixed price arrangements and significant staffing which inherently involve certain risks. Even in an environment where services revenue is increasing, business conditions associated with the delivery of services may negatively affect the margin on such revenue. To the extent that we are not successful in securing orders from customers to provide services, or to the extent we are not successful in achieving the expected margin on such services, our results may be negatively affected. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from maintenance renewals. Our maintenance renewal rate is not predictable and is dependent upon a number of factors such as our ability to continue to develop and maintain our products, our ability to continue to recruit and retain qualified personnel to assist our customers, and our ability to promote the value of maintenance for our products to our customers. Maintenance renewals are also dependent upon factors beyond our control such as technology changes and their adoption by our customers, budgeting decisions by our customers, changes in our customers’ strategy or ownership and attempts by our competitors to replace our products with their own. If our maintenance renewal rate was to fall, our revenue would be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Fixed expense level is based on expected revenues. Our expense level is relatively fixed and is based, in significant part, on expectations of future revenue. If revenue levels fall below expectations, expenses could be disproportionately high as a percentage of total revenue, which would adversely affect our operating results. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may differ from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Our tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in various jurisdictions; • Changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations thereof; • Unanticipated changes in tax rates; • Changes in accounting and tax treatment of stock-based compensation; • Tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; • Changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; • Assessments and any related tax interest or penalties; and • Discrete items which are not related to income. We report our results of operations based on our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Periodically, we may receive notices that a tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority, in which case, we may engage in discussions or possible disputes with these tax authorities. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH SALES CYCLE Our products involve a long sales cycle and the timing of sales is difficult to predict. Because the licensing of our primary products generally involves a significant commitment of capital or a long-term commitment by our customers, the sales cycle associated with a customer’s purchase of our products is generally lengthy and usually takes several months. This cycle varies from customer to customer and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. The evaluation process that our customers follow generally involves many of their personnel and requires complex demonstrations and presentations to satisfy their needs. Significant effort is required from QAD to support this approach, whether we are ultimately successful or not. If sales forecasted for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, then we are unlikely to be able to generate revenue from alternative sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. As a result, a lost or delayed sale could have an adverse effect on our quarterly and/or annual operating results. In some cases we provide a portion of the customer solution that involves third parties during the sales cycle. While we believe we have established a robust global support and services organization over the past several years, we continue to rely on third-parties for a portion of our implementation and systems support services. We also occasionally cooperate with third party software providers of point solutions as part of an overall proposal. In some situations, such as when these third-parties are the primary contractor or otherwise an essential party to a larger arrangement, this reliance on third parties may cause sales cycles to be lengthened and may result in the loss of sales. We have historically recognized a substantial portion of our revenue from sales booked and shipped in the last month of a quarter. As a result, the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations in license fees may not become evident until the end of a particular quarter. Our revenue from license fees in any quarter is substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. 12 Table of Contents We must hire and retain highly skilled sales and marketing personnel to be successful in the sales cycle. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in hiring and retaining appropriate sales and marketing personnel in accordance with our plans. Neither can there be assurance that our recent and planned strategies in sales and marketing will ultimately prove to be successful. In addition, our sales and marketing organization may not be able to compete successfully against the significantly more extensive and better funded sales and marketing operations of many of our current and potential competitors. DEPENDENCE ON THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS We are dependent on third-party suppliers, particularly Progress Software Corporation. The majority of QAD Enterprise Applications are written in a programming language that is proprietary to Progress Software Corporation (Progress). These QAD Enterprise Applications do not run within programming environments other than Progress and therefore our customers must acquire rights to Progress software in order to use these QAD Enterprise Applications. We have an agreement with Progress under which Progress licenses us to distribute and use Progress software related to our products. This agreement remains in effect unless terminated either by a written three-year advance notice or due to a material breach that is not remedied. Our success is dependent upon our continuing relationship with Progress. It is also dependant upon Progress continuing to develop, support and enhance its programming language, its toolset and its database, as well as the continued market acceptance of Progress as a standard database program. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience product release delays because of delays in the release of Progress products or product enhancements. Any of these delays could have an adverse effect on our business. Certain QAD Enterprise Applications are developed using embedded programming tools from Microsoft and from Sun Microsystems for the Microsoft.NET framework and Java Programming environments, respectively. We rely on these environments’ continued compatibility with customers’ desktop and server operating systems. In the event that this does not occur, some of our customers may not be able to easily upgrade their QAD software. We also have an exposure with the present method of licensing the .NET framework in that it is currently provided as part of Microsoft’s Desktop Operating systems. If this policy changed and a price was applied to the .NET framework, our sales may be adversely affected. For both of these elements, we rely on market acceptance and maintenance of these environments and we may be adversely affected if these were withdrawn or superseded in the market. We also maintain development, product, and supplier services alliances with other third-parties. These alliances include software developed to be sold in conjunction with QAD Enterprise Applications, technology developed to be included in or encapsulated within QAD Enterprise Applications, joint development efforts with partners or customers, and products and numerous third-party software programs that generally are not sold with QAD Enterprise Applications, but interoperate directly with QAD Enterprise Applications. We also have a service provider agreement for the provision of certain infrastructure related to our On Demand offerings. Our strategy may include additional investment in research and development efforts involving third parties, as well as a greater focus on potential acquisitions to aid in expanding the breadth of the product line. Our partner agreements, including development, product acquisition and reseller agreements contain appropriate confidentiality, indemnity and non-disclosure provisions for the third-party and end-user. Failure to establish or maintain successful relationships with these third-parties or failure of these parties to develop and support their software, provide appropriate services and fulfill other agreement obligations could have an adverse effect on us. We have been in the past, and expect to be in the future, party to disputes about ownership, license scope and royalty or fee terms with respect to intellectual property. RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE The market for QAD Enterprise Applications is characterized by rapid technological change. Customer requirements for products can change rapidly as a result of innovation or change within the computer hardware and software industries, the introduction of new products and technologies and the emergence of, adoption of, or changes to, industry standards including those related to consolidation in the industry. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to enhance our current product line and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, keep pace with industry and compliance standards and achieve market acceptance. Our failure to successfully develop or acquire, and market product enhancements or new products could have an adverse effect on us. 13 Table of Contents New software releases and enhancements may adversely affect our software sales. The actual or anticipated introduction of new products, technologies and industry standards can cause customers to delay decisions and can also render existing products obsolete or unmarketable or result in delays in the purchase of those products. Our success in launching new products may also jeopardize our ability to compete. Failure by us to anticipate or respond to developments in technology or customer requirements, significant delays in the introduction of new products or failure by us to maintain overall customer satisfaction could have an adverse effect. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSING Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, as well as on confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights in our software and related materials and information. We enter into license agreements with each of our customers and these license agreements provide for the non-exclusive license of QAD Enterprise Applications. These licenses generally are perpetual, although our On Demand (or SaaS) licensing strategy involves term licenses. Our license contracts contain confidentiality and non-disclosure provisions, a limited warranty covering our applications and indemnification for the customer from infringement actions related to our applications. Our pricing and licensing models may affect our ability to compete. Our pricing policy is based on a standard price list and may vary based on different parameters, including the number of end-users, number of sites, number of modules, number of languages, length of time, the country in which the license is granted and level of ongoing support, training and services to be provided by QAD. We expect to continue to introduce products using our On Demand (or SaaS) licensing model. Our ability to offer competitive pricing models in response to the market is also a risk. There are no assurances that such licensing models will be accepted in the market place or will yield revenue comparable to that of past licensing models. We license our source code to our customers, which makes it possible for others to copy or modify our software for impermissible purposes. We generally license our software to end-users in both object code (machine-readable) and source code (human-readable) formats. While this practice facilitates customization, making software available in source code also makes it possible for others to copy or modify our software for impermissible purposes. Our license agreements generally allow the use of our software solely by the customer for internal purposes without the right to sublicense or transfer the software to third-parties. We believe that the measures we take to protect our intellectual property afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for others to copy portions of our products, reverse engineer them or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, all of which could adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar to ours. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The success of our business is highly dependent on maintenance of intellectual property rights. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may increase the cost of protecting these rights or reduce our revenues. We may initiate, or be subject to, claims or litigation for infringement of proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights, which could result in significant expense to us, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter royalty or licensing agreements and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, whether or not such litigation were determined in our favor. We may be exposed to product liability claims. While our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential material product liability claims, including appropriate warranty, indemnification, waiver and limitation of liability provisions, it is possible that such provisions may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. We have an errors and omissions insurance policy. However, this insurance may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may be subject to product liability or errors or omissions claims that could have an adverse effect on us. Moreover, defending a suit, regardless of its merits, could entail substantial expense and require the time and attention of key management personnel. 14 Table of Contents ENTERPRISE APPLICATION SOLUTIONS The market for enterprise applications is uncertain and we are substantially dependent on our core product suite, QAD Enterprise Applications. A significant element of our strategy is the acceptance of QAD Enterprise Applications, including in particular, modules formerly marketed under the MFG/PRO brand. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from software license and maintenance revenue attributable to this product suite and from other complimentary products that are generally licensed only in conjunction with this suite. The failure of QAD Enterprise Applications, including the modules formerly marketed under the MFG/PRO brand, and related products to continue to have market acceptance for license sales and maintenance renewals would adversely affect our business. In addition, we have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources developing and enhancing the various product suites that make up QAD Enterprise Applications. If QAD Enterprise Applications fails to gain acceptance in the marketplace, it may not yield the return on investment we expect and would adversely affect us. We may not retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products. The enterprise application market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, as well as changing customer needs. Building new products requires significant development investment. A substantial portion of our research and development resources is devoted to product upgrades that address new technology, regulatory and maintenance requirements, thereby putting constraints on our resources available for new product development. In addition, part of our strategy is to acquire certain products to extend and enhance our product offering. The success of QAD Enterprise Applications will depend on our ability to successfully develop, enhance and globalize these offerings and distribute, service and support them internationally. We also face uncertainty when we develop or acquire new products because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products. QAD Enterprise Applications are often deployed in complex systems and may contain defects or security flaws. Because our products are often deployed in complex systems, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in such systems and often require long periods of time for such testing. Our customers may discover defects in our products, experience corruption of their data or encounter performance or scaling problems only after our software programs have been deployed. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Software and data security are becoming increasingly important because of regulatory restrictions on data privacy and the significant legal exposures and business disruptions stemming from computer viruses and other unauthorized entry or use of computer systems. Product defects and security flaws could expose us to product liability and warranty claims and harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. Our efforts to expand our offering beyond the traditional manufacturing ERP market may not succeed. We have traditionally focused our business on providing enterprise applications and services for manufacturing companies’ internal system services for the vertical manufacturing markets we target. However, in the future, we may seek to expand into other markets. For instance, in fiscal 2007 we launched the Precision Software division, a provider of solutions for transportation management. The Precision solution targets customers outside our traditional vertical manufacturing markets. Efforts to expand beyond these markets may not result in significant revenue growth for us. In addition, efforts to expand beyond our traditional markets and, in the case of SaaS offerings, outside our traditional delivery and licensing models, may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business, which may harm our existing business. 15 Table of Contents MARKET CONCENTRATION We are dependent upon achieving success in certain concentrated markets. We have made a strategic decision to concentrate our product development, as well as our sales and marketing efforts, in certain primary vertical industry segments: automotive, consumer products, high technology, food and beverage, industrial products and life sciences. An important element of our strategy is the achievement of technological and market leadership recognition for our software products in these segments. The failure of our products to achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance in one or more of these segments could have an adverse effect on us. If any of these targeted industry segments experience a material slowdown in expansion or in prospects for future growth, that downturn would adversely affect the demand for our products. A discussion of concentration of our credit risk is contained in note 1 within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. DEPENDENCE UPON DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF THIRD-PARTY RELATIONSHIPS TO PROVIDE SALES, SERVICES AND MARKETING FUNCTIONS We are dependent upon the development and maintenance of sales and marketing channels. We sell and support our products through direct and indirect sales, services and support organizations throughout the world. Our indirect sales channel consists of over 70 distributors and sales agents worldwide that we refer to as sales channels. We do not grant exclusive distribution rights to our sales channels. Our sales channels primarily sell independently to companies within their geographic territory, and may work in conjunction with our direct sales organization. Sales derived through indirect channels are more difficult to forecast and may have lower profit margins than direct sales. We have separate agreements with our alliances, sales channels and service providers. These agreements make available to our distributors and service providers the non-exclusive right to promote and market QAD Enterprise Applications and to provide training, installation, implementation and other services for QAD Enterprise Applications within a defined territory for a specified period of time. These providers are generally permitted to set their own rates for their services and our distributors receive a discount for the distribution of our software products. We have certain relationships with a number of consulting and systems integration organizations that we believe are important to our worldwide sales, marketing, service and support activities and to the implementation of our products. QAD Global Services is designed to complement these arrangements so that we can both subcontract our services to third-party providers or be a sub-contractor to these providers on a global basis to meet our customers’ requirements. We believe this method allows for additional flexibility in ensuring our customers’ needs for services are met in a cost effective, timely and high quality manner. Our providers generally do not receive fees for the sale of our software products unless they participate actively in a sale as a sales agent or a distributor. We are aware that these third-party providers do not provide system integration services exclusively for our products and in many instances these firms have similar, and often more established, relationships with our principal competitors. Our intellectual property rights may be significantly affected by third-party relationships and actions. We have in the past, and may in the future, resell certain software which we license from third-parties. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, jointly develop software in which we have co-ownership or cross-licensing rights or grant rights for the resulting software to interoperate with our products. There can be no assurance that these third-party software arrangements and licenses will continue to be available to us on terms that provide us with the third-party software we require, provide adequate functionality in our products on terms that adequately protect our proprietary rights, or are commercially favorable to us. Our third-party development agreements contain restrictions on the use of our technology outside of the development process. Failure to establish or maintain successful relationships with third-parties as appropriate or failure of these third-parties to fulfill their responsibilities could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, if these third-parties exclusively adopt a product or technology other than QAD software products or technology, or if these third-parties reduce their support of QAD software products and technology or increase such support for competitive products or technology, we could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents ACQUISITIONS AND INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED BUSINESS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including the risks in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, realizing the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid, distraction of management from our ongoing businesses and potential product disruptions associated with the sale of the acquired companies’ products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. Furthermore, we may incur significant debt to pay for future acquisitions or investments. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new offerings or enhance our existing offerings, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. These risks are enhanced due to the current global financial crisis. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Our operations are international in scope, exposing us to additional risk. For the last three fiscal years, we derived approximately 60 percent of our total revenue from sales outside the United States. A significant aspect of our strategy is to focus on developing business in emerging markets. Of approximately 6,000 licensed sites as of January 31, 2009, approximately 75% are outside the United States, in over 90 countries. Our operating results could also be negatively impacted by a variety of other factors affecting our foreign operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include currency fluctuations, economic, political or regulatory conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements. Additional risks inherent in international business activities generally include, among others: • Longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • Costs and difficulties of managing international operations and alliances; • Greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights; • Import or export requirements; • Changes in political or economic conditions; and • Changes in regulatory requirements or tax law. We may experience foreign currency gains and losses. We conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the United States dollar. Our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, including the Euro, Australian dollar, British pound, Japanese yen and the Mexican peso relative to the United States dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. Our foreign exchange risk is further discussed in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 17 Table of Contents Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and for which we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include: (i) the overall demand for enterprise computer software and services; (ii) conditions in the high technology and manufacturing industry sectors; (iii) general economic and business conditions; and (iv) general political developments and conflicts. A general weakening of the global economy could delay and/or decrease customer purchases. In addition, ongoing conflicts and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. RISKS DUE TO BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS If a business interruption occurs, our business could be seriously harmed. A substantial portion of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We also employ a third party to provide certain infrastructure related to our On Demand and AMS offerings. Although the facilities in which we host our computer systems, and those of our supplier, are designed to be fault tolerant and disaster recovery procedures are in place, the systems are susceptible to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, the effect of software viruses, terrorist acts, acts of war and similar events. In addition, an occurrence of any of these events may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. MARKET CONDITIONS The enterprise application market has experienced significant consolidation and increased competition. This consolidation has included numerous mergers and acquisitions and, as a result, some prospective buyers are reluctant to purchase applications that could have a short lifespan due to a potential acquisition that could result in the application’s life being abruptly cut short. QAD’s controlled company status makes it highly unlikely that a hostile takeover of the company would occur. However, increased competition and consolidation in these markets is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and changes in market share, any one of which could adversely affect us. Several of our potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition and greater technological and financial resources. We are subject to competitive attack on our existing customers. The majority of significant companies in our major mature markets already have an ERP system, either QAD Enterprise Applications or that of a competitor. Our competitors may elect to focus heavily on displacing our solutions within our customer base. If this practice were to intensify from the current business level, it would have an adverse impact on our ongoing revenues and our market reputation. THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK IS VOLATILE The market prices for securities of technology companies, such as QAD, have been volatile. The market price of our common stock and the number of shares traded each day has occasionally varied greatly. In addition, the securities of many technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the companies’ operating performance. In addition, due to the current global financial crisis and other factors, there can be no assurance that QAD will be in a position to continue any dividend or stock repurchase activities it has conducted in the past. Because of these and other factors affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as an indicator of future stock performance. As of January 31, 2009, QAD had 30.8 million shares of common stock outstanding, 6.0 million stock options and stock appreciation rights and 0.7 million restricted stock units outstanding, all under stock compensation plans. As a result, a substantial number of shares of common stock will be eligible for sale in the public market at various times in the future. Sales of substantial amounts of such shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price could become more volatile and investments could lose value. All of the factors discussed above as well as speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, and market trends could affect our stock price. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, resulting in an adverse affect on our business. 18 Table of Contents In addition, if the market for technology stocks, or the stock market in general, experiences uneven investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Any volatility in our stock price may result in litigation which may harm our business and the results of operations. INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our ability to meet our reporting requirements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. We are required to delay revenue recognition into future periods for portions of our license fee activity. Our entire worldwide business is subject to United States generally accepted accounting principles, commonly referred to as “U.S. GAAP.” Under those rules, we are required to defer revenue recognition for license fees in certain situations. Factors that are considered in revenue recognition include those such as vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), products under development, the inclusion of other services and contingencies to payment terms. We expect that we will continue to defer portions of our license fee activity because of these factors. The amount of license fees deferred may be significant and will vary each quarter depending on the mix of products sold in each market and geography, as well as the actual contract terms. PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS AND DEPENDENCE UPON KEY PERSONNEL Our principal stockholders are also directors and officers. As of March 31, 2009, Karl and Pamela Lopker jointly and beneficially owned approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock. Karl and Pamela Lopker currently constitute two of the seven members of the board of directors and are also officers of QAD in their capacity as CEO and President, respectively. On a combined basis, current directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 60% of the common stock as of March 31, 2009. Karl and Pamela Lopker are not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in QAD to a third party. Their concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We are a “controlled company”. Karl and Pamela Lopker, as husband and wife, own a majority of our common stock and we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the NASDAQ. Therefore, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules of the NASDAQ that would otherwise apply to us as a listed company on the NASDAQ. Specifically, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and we are not required to have nominating and compensation committees composed of independent directors. Should the interests of Karl and Pamela Lopker differ from those of other shareholders, the other shareholders will not be afforded the protections of having a majority of directors on the board who are independent from our principal shareholders or our management. 19 Table of Contents We are dependent upon key personnel. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued service of a relatively small number of key technical and senior management personnel, including Founder, Chairman of the Board and President, Pamela Lopker, and Chief Executive Officer, Karl Lopker, neither of whom is bound by an employment agreement. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. The loss of any member of our key technical and senior management personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on us. We do not currently have key-person insurance covering any of our employees. IMPACT OF REGULATION Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. We are subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. If we fail to address and comply with these regulations and any subsequent changes, our business may be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 