Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as other information in our filings under the Exchange Act before making any investment decisions regarding our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. If events corresponding to any of these risks actually occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. When used in this report, unless otherwise indicated, “we,” “our” and “us” refers to VaxGen. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger In November 2007, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Raven. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, we will issue, and holders of Raven Series D preferred stock will receive shares of our common stock, such that following the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, our current stockholders will own approximately 50.9% of the combined company and current Raven Series D preferred stockholders will own approximately 49.1% of the combined company. The merger is intended to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under the provisions of Section 368(a) of the Code. The merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by our stockholders. After the merger, we will need to modify our finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to incorporate the operations of Raven, which modifications may be time consuming and expensive to implement, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we believe that we currently have adequate finance and accounting systems for our business on a standalone basis, after the merger we will need to upgrade the existing, and implement additional, procedures and controls to incorporate the operations of Raven. These updates may require significant time and expense, and there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in implementing them. If we are unable to complete the required modifications to our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. If we are not successful in integrating our organizations, we may not be able to operate efficiently after the merger. Achieving the benefits of the merger will depend in part on the successful integration of VaxGen’s and Raven’s technical and business operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process requires coordination of the personnel of both companies, and involves the integration of systems, applications, policies, procedures, business processes and operations. This process may be difficult and unpredictable because of possible conflicts and differing opinions on business, scientific and regulatory matters. Moreover, the integration of the two companies will present challenges to the combined company. If we cannot successfully integrate our technical and business operations and personnel, we may not realize the expected benefits of the merger. Integrating our companies may divert management’s attention away from our operations. The successful integration of VaxGen’s and Raven’s technical and business operations and personnel may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could result in delays in clinical trial and product development programs of the combined company and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 6 Table of Contents We expect to incur significant costs integrating the companies into a single business. We expect to incur significant costs integrating VaxGen’s and Raven’s technical and business operations and personnel, which include costs for: • employee redeployment, relocation or severance; • conversion of information systems; • combining administrative teams and processes; • reorganization of facilities and disposition of excess facilities; and • relocation or disposition of excess equipment. If we fail to retain key employees, the benefits of the merger could be diminished. The successful combination of VaxGen and Raven will depend, in part, on the retention of key personnel. There can be no assurance that the combined company will be able to retain its key management and scientific personnel. If we fail to retain such key employees, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. If one or more of the product candidates in the merged company cannot be shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, is not approvable or not commercially successful, then the benefits of the merger may not be realized. The combined company will have one product candidate in clinical trials, and we plan to commence clinical trials for one additional product candidate in 2009 and one other product candidate by 2010. All of these product candidates must be rigorously tested in clinical trials, and be shown to be safe and effective before the FDA or other regulatory authorities outside the U.S. will consider them for approval. Failure to demonstrate that one or more of our product candidates is safe and effective, or significant delays in demonstrating such safety and efficacy, could diminish the benefits of the merger. Failure to obtain marketing approval of one or more of our product candidates from appropriate regulatory authorities, or significant delays in obtaining such approval, could diminish the benefits of the merger. If approved for sale, our product candidates must be successfully commercialized. Failure to successfully commercialize one or more of our product candidates could diminish the benefits of the merger. Failure to complete the merger could adversely affect VaxGen’s stock price and VaxGen’s future business and operations. The merger is subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions, including approval by VaxGen and Raven stockholders, and neither VaxGen nor Raven can assure you that the merger will be completed. In the event that the merger is not consummated, VaxGen may be subject to many risks, including the costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and advisory fees, which must be paid even if the merger is not completed, and the payment of a termination fee under certain circumstances. In addition, if the merger is not approved by stockholders, VaxGen will need to pursue other strategic alternatives or liquidation, and the market price of VaxGen common stock could decline. Completion of the merger may result in dilution of future earnings per share to the stockholders of VaxGen. The completion of the merger may result in greater net losses or a weaker financial condition compared to that which would have been achieved by VaxGen on a stand-alone basis. The merger could fail to produce the benefits that the companies anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that the companies currently do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that either company has made, such as the achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. In this event, the merger could result in greater losses as compared to the losses that would have been incurred by VaxGen if the merger had not occurred. The costs associated with the merger are difficult to estimate, may be higher than expected and may harm the financial results of the combined company. VaxGen and Raven estimate that they will incur aggregate direct transaction costs of approximately $4.5 million associated with the merger, and additional costs associated with the consolidation and integration of operations, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. If the total costs of the merger exceed our estimates or the benefits of the merger do not exceed the total costs of the merger, the financial results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to VaxGen We are not currently listed on a national exchange and cannot assure you we will ever be listed. As a result of our failure to make timely filings of financial statements, we were delisted from Nasdaq, and our common stock is not currently listed on any national stock exchange. We have completed all delinquent filings with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, but we have not yet applied for our common stock to be listed on a national exchange. We do not know when, if ever, this will be completed, and thus, whether our common stock will ever be listed. In addition, we cannot be certain that Nasdaq will approve our stock for relisting or that any other exchange will approve our stock for listing. In order to be eligible for relisting or listing, we must meet Nasdaq’s or another exchange’s initial listing criteria, including a minimum per share price. At December 31, 2007, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets, and on March 13, 2008, our common stock began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol VXGN.OB. 7 Table of Contents Although we ceased active development of rPA102 and have reduced our workforce, we may be unable to successfully manage our remaining resources, including available cash, while we seek to complete a strategic transaction. We discontinued clinical development of rPA102 after HHS terminated our SNS Contract. In addition, in June 2007 we terminated our contract with Kaketsuken to develop a smallpox vaccine. We had previously devoted substantially all of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources toward the development of rPA102, and we have no product candidates in clinical or preclinical development. In connection with the termination of our clinical development of rPA102, we announced restructuring activities, including significant workforce reductions. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred charges associated with our restructuring activities of approximately $5.4 million, which includes employee severance costs of $4.4 million and facilities-related and other expenses of $1.0 million. As a result of the termination of our SNS Contract, we evaluated strategic alternatives and retained Lazard to act as our advisor. As a result of this process, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Raven on November 12, 2007. We cannot predict whether we would be able to identify alternate strategic transactions which will either provide us with a pipeline or return value to our stockholders on a timely basis or at all. We also cannot predict whether any such transaction would be consummated on favorable terms, and anticipate that such transaction may require us to incur significant additional costs. If we fail to manage successfully any company or product acquisitions, joint ventures or in-licensed product candidates, we may be limited in our ability to develop our product candidates and to rebuild our product candidate pipeline. Our prior product development programs were initiated through in-licensing or collaborative arrangements. These collaborations include licensing proprietary technology from, and other relationships with, biotechnology companies and government research institutes and organizations. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to expand our product pipeline and capabilities through company or product acquisitions, merging or in-licensing. Any such activities will be accompanied by certain risks including: • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • the difficulty and expense of integrating operations and personnel of acquired companies; • disruption of our ongoing business; • diversion of management’s time and attention; and • possible dilution to stockholders. If our competitors successfully enter into partnering or license agreements or we are unable to reach agreement on license or partnering agreements on terms acceptable to us, we may then be precluded from pursuing those specific opportunities. Since each of these opportunities is unique, we may not be able to find a substitute. In addition, if we are unable to manage successfully any acquisitions, joint ventures and other collaboration opportunities, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products and therefore to continue to expand our product pipeline. We may need to raise additional capital to support our operations and in order to continue as a going concern if we successfully complete the transaction with Raven, or an alternative strategic transaction. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through at least December 31, 2008. In addition to our workforce reductions and the termination of our rPA102 and smallpox development activities, we announced that we were exploring strategic alternatives, and as a result, on November 12, 2007, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Raven. Our restructuring measures implemented to date and our proposed strategic transaction may disappoint investors and further depress the price of our common stock and the value of an investment in our common stock thereby limiting our ability to raise additional funds. We will require substantial funds to conduct development activities if we acquire additional products or companies or consummate this or other strategic transactions. Our ability to conduct the required development activities related to any new product candidates will be significantly limited if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital. We may seek to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs. We do not know, however, whether additional financing will be available when needed, or whether it will be available on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain adequate financing also may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. As a result of the reductions in our workforce that we announced in January, May and September 2007, we may not be successful in retaining key employees and in attracting qualified new employees as required in the future. If we are unable to retain our management, scientific staff and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to rebuild our business will be seriously jeopardized. 8 Table of Contents In January 2007, we implemented a restructuring resulting in the reduction of our workforce by approximately 51%. In May 2007, we announced the discontinuation of any further development activities with respect to rPA102 and a corporate restructuring plan that included a reduction in our workforce to fewer than 70 employees. In September 2007, we further reduced our workforce to fewer than 30 employees. Competition among biotechnology companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to our success. We may experience further reductions in force due to voluntary employee resignations and a diminished ability to recruit new employees. We may be unable to attract or retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to meet our obligations under the 5 1/2% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010, or Notes, our payment obligations may be accelerated. The Notes have the following features: • require semi-annual payment of interest in cash at a rate of 5 1/2%; • convert, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of approximately $14.76 per share, subject to adjustment; • will be provisionally redeemable at our option in cash upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, including among others, that the closing price of our common stock exceeds $22.14 per share, subject to adjustment, for at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days; • if a change in control, as defined in the indenture, occurs on or prior to the stated maturity of the Notes, the holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase the Notes and pay a make-whole premium to the holders of the Notes. If the holders request such a repurchase, we or the successor entity may choose to pay in cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock; and • constitute senior subordinated obligations. Under the terms of the Notes, if certain events occur, including, without limitation, our failure to pay any installment of principal or interest due under the Notes, then the holders may, among other things, elect to accelerate our obligations under the Notes and declare the outstanding principal balance of the Notes and accrued but unpaid interest thereon immediately due and payable. In the event that the holders declare the Notes immediately due and payable or seek to foreclose on any of our assets, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and we may not have sufficient cash to satisfy our obligations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, limit our cash flow available to invest in the ongoing requirements of our business and adversely affect the price of our common stock. At December 31, 2007, our indebtedness consisted of $31.5 million in Notes. This indebtedness, and any future indebtedness we may incur, could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial and payment obligations, or to refinance maturing indebtedness; • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy or our business; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • requiring application of a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service costs, which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry, business and markets; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to the extent we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future to fund our continued operations or future acquisitions. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. We may be required to repurchase the Notes if certain change-in-control events occur. We have only a limited operating history and we expect to continue to generate operating losses. To date, we have engaged primarily in research, development and clinical testing. Since our inception in 1995, our operations have not been profitable, and we cannot be certain that we will ever achieve or sustain operating profitability. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $254.7 million. Developing any future product candidates will require significant additional research and development, including non-clinical testing and clinical trials, as well as regulatory approval. We expect these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, to result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. 9 Table of Contents Biopharmaceutical product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and the approval requirements for many products are still evolving. If we are unable to successfully develop and test product candidates in accordance with such requirements, our business will suffer. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for any product candidates we may develop. In the United States, our potential product candidates would likely be regulated by the FDA as Biologics. In order to obtain approval from the FDA to market our product candidates, we will be required to submit to the FDA a Biologics License Application, or BLA, which must include both preclinical and clinical trial data as prescribed by the FDA’s current regulatory criteria, as well as extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures and processes for the product candidates. Ordinarily, the FDA requires a sponsor to support a BLA application with substantial evidence of the product’s safety and effectiveness in treating the targeted indication based on data derived from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials, including Phase 3 efficacy trials conducted in patients with the disease or condition being targeted. We cannot predict whether we will obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates pursuant to these provisions. We may fail to obtain approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, or experience delays in obtaining such approvals, due to varying interpretations of data or failure to satisfy current safety, efficacy and quality control requirements. Further, our business is subject to substantial risk because the FDA’s current policies may change suddenly and unpredictably and in ways that could impair our ability to obtain regulatory approval of product candidates. We cannot guarantee that the FDA will approve product candidates on a timely basis or at all. Delays in successfully completing any clinical trials we may conduct could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market our potential product candidates on a timely basis. If we resume development of any potential product candidates, our business prospects may depend on our ability to complete patient enrollment in clinical trials, to obtain satisfactory results, to obtain required regulatory approvals and to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Product development to show adequate evidence of effectiveness in animal models and safety and efficacy in humans is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of our non-clinical studies or clinical trials. Any delay or significant adverse clinical events arising during any of our clinical trials could force us to abandon a product candidate altogether or to conduct additional clinical trials in order to obtain approval from the FDA or other regulatory body. These development efforts and clinical trials are lengthy and expensive, and the outcome is uncertain. Completion of any clinical trials we may commence, announcement of results of the trials and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • slower-than-anticipated enrollment of volunteers in the trials; • lower-than-anticipated recruitment or retention rate of volunteers in the trials; • serious adverse events related to the product candidates; • unsatisfactory results of any clinical trial; • the failure of our principal third-party investigators to perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedules; or • different interpretations of our preclinical and clinical data, which could initially lead to inconclusive results. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in any clinical trial or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If the delays are significant, or if any of our product candidates do not prove to be safe or effective or do not receive required regulatory approvals, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed. Furthermore, our inability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by domestic and foreign regulatory authorities both before and after we obtain approval of our future product candidates, the commercialization of our future product candidates could be prevented, delayed or suspended. Product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization in the United States and other countries. Our potential product candidates have not received required regulatory approval from the FDA to be commercially marketed and sold in the United States. Our future product candidates have not received required regulatory approval from foreign regulatory agencies to be commercially marketed and sold. The process of obtaining and complying with FDA, other governmental and foreign regulatory approvals and regulations is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Despite the time and expense exerted, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. 10 Table of Contents We also are subject to the following regulatory risks and obligations, among others: • the FDA or foreign regulators may refuse to approve an application if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied; • the FDA or foreign regulators may require additional testing for safety and effectiveness; • the FDA or foreign regulators may interpret data from non-clinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we interpret them; • if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution. In addition, many foreign countries control pricing and coverage under their respective national social security systems; • the FDA or foreign regulators may not approve our manufacturing processes or manufacturing facilities; • the FDA or foreign regulators may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations; • even if regulatory approval for any product is obtained, the marketing license will be subject to continual review, and newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may result in suspension or revocation of the marketing license; • if regulatory approval of the product candidate is granted, the marketing of that product would be subject to adverse event reporting requirements and a general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses; and • in some foreign countries, we may be subject to official release requirements that require each batch of the product we produce to be officially released by regulatory authorities prior to its distribution by us. Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable foreign regulatory bodies may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • warning letters; • civil penalties; • criminal penalties; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention, including any products that we manufacture; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of production; and • suspension or revocation of the marketing license. Our future product development efforts may not yield marketable products due to results of studies or trials, failure to achieve regulatory approvals or market acceptance, proprietary rights of others or manufacturing issues. Our success depends on our ability to successfully acquire, develop and obtain regulatory approval to market new biopharmaceutical products. Development of a product requires substantial technical, financial and human resources. Our potential products may appear to be promising at various stages of development yet fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, including: • the lack of adequate quality or sufficient prevention benefit, or unacceptable safety during preclinical studies or clinical trials; • their failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • the existence of proprietary rights of third parties; or • the inability to develop manufacturing methods that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards. We may fail to protect our intellectual property or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, either of which could harm our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent other companies from using our technology in competitive products. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be prevented from developing or marketing our product candidates. We rely on patent and other intellectual property protection to prevent our competitors from manufacturing and marketing our product candidates. Given the rights retained and licenses granted to the U.S. government with regard to our anthrax vaccine candidate, to the extent that the U.S. government or foreign governments or organizations procuring vaccines through treaties or agreements with the U.S. government constitute the primary market for any of our products, the licenses granted by the U.S. government may not provide us with a competitive advantage. 11 Table of Contents Technology that we may acquire or license in the future, if any, will be protected from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, or effectively maintained as trade secrets and exclusively licensed to us. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope and breadth of patent claims that may be afforded to other companies’ patents. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we initiate these suits, even in such instances in which the outcome is favorable to us. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any patents issued to us or licensed from the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases or other parties, or that we may license in the future, if any, will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we or any of our current or future licensors will adequately protect trade secrets; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that patents issued to us in the future, if any, or that we may license in the future, if any, will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. In addition, we cannot assure you that our operations or technology will not infringe intellectual property rights of others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office keeps United States patent applications confidential while the applications are pending. As a result, we cannot determine which inventions third parties claim in pending patent applications that they have filed. We may need to engage in litigation to defend or enforce our patent and license rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. If we infringe the intellectual property of others, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to use the technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain licenses could force us to cease development or sale of a product candidate. We face competition from several companies with greater financial, personnel and research and development resources than ours. Our competitors are developing product candidates which could compete with those we may develop in the future. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products for any of the diseases that we target that: • are more effective; • have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; • are more adaptable to various modes of dosing; • are easier to store or transport; • are easier to administer; or • are less expensive than the product candidates we develop. Even if we are successful in developing effective products and obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals necessary for commercializing them, our products may not compete effectively with other successful products. Researchers are continually learning more about diseases, which may lead to new technologies for treatment. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products either that are more effective than those that we may develop, alone or with our collaborators, making our products obsolete, or that are marketed before any products we develop are marketed. Our competitors include fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that currently have drug and target discovery efforts, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. Many of the organizations competing with us may have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater marketing capabilities than we do. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, may damage our facilities. Our corporate research and manufacturing facilities are located in California and are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. As a result, our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as fires, floods and similar events. Although we maintain general business insurance against fires and some general business interruptions, there can be no assurance that the scope or amount of coverage will be adequate in any particular case. 12 Table of Contents Our use of hazardous materials and chemicals require us to comply with regulatory requirements and exposes us to potential liabilities. Our research and development may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for significant damages or fines. These damages could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance coverage. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future. We may become subject to product liability claims, which could result in damages that exceed our insurance coverage. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with product candidates tested in human clinical trials or sold commercially. We may become subject to a product liability suit if any product candidate we develop causes injury, or if individuals subsequently become infected or otherwise suffer adverse effects from our product candidates. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. We maintained product liability insurance, including clinical trial liability, in the amount of $10.0 million for our programs up until March 2007, when the programs were suspended. We have an extended reporting period for claims that may arise under this coverage. We cannot be certain that additional insurance coverage, if required, could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be subject to claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stockholders could experience substantial dilution as a result of the issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to establish the designation of almost 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock that are convertible into common stock without any action by our stockholders, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares. In February 2006, we raised net proceeds of $25.2 million through a private placement of 3.5 million shares of common stock at $7.70 per share to a group of accredited institutional investors. We also issued to the investors five-year warrants initially exercisable to purchase 698,637 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $9.24 per share. Because we did not file all of our delinquent periodic reports with the SEC by January 31, 2007, the warrants became exercisable for an additional 698,630 shares of common stock, at a price of $9.24 per share. We may raise additional funds through public or private offerings of our preferred stock or our common stock, or through issuance of debt securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or conversion of preferred stock or debt securities into shares of common stock, would further dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders. Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock. Shares of our common stock issued in a private placement in February 2006 were registered for resale under a registration statement, which was declared effective by the SEC in February 2008. In addition, pursuant to Rule 144, generally, a non-affiliated stockholder who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell restricted securities without any limitation. Certain of those stockholders who purchased shares of our common stock in our November 2004 and February 2006 private placements or the 2005 purchasers of our Notes which are convertible into shares of our common stock are eligible to conduct sales under Rule 144. Any substantial sale of our common stock under effective resale registration statement or pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. At December 31, 2007, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets and is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks quoted on the OTC typically are subject to greater volatility than stocks traded on stock exchanges, such as Nasdaq, due to the fact that OTC trading volumes are generally significantly less than those on stock exchanges. This lower volume may allow a relatively few number of stock trades to greatly affect the stock price. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. For example, following the announcement on November 13, 2007 of our proposed merger with Raven, the closing price of one share of our common stock fell approximately 41% from the day before the announcement to the day of the announcement. Between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, the closing price of our common stock, as quoted on the Pink Sheets, has ranged from a high of $2.63 per share to a low of $0.42 per share. 13 Table of Contents Our stock price could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • announcements or speculation about any strategic transactions we may enter into; • timing and consistency of filing financial statements; • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • delays in our product development efforts; • real or perceived safety issues with any of our product candidates; • failure to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and our failure to meet or exceed such estimates; • rumors about our business prospects, product development efforts or the progress, timing and completion of our clinical trials; • new products or services offered by us or our competitors or announcements relating to product developments by our competitors; • issuances of debt or equity securities; • issuances of securities or the expectation of the issuance of securities as part of a merger or other strategic transaction; • actual or expected sales by our stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general and biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. If we face securities litigation in the future, even if it is without merit or unsuccessful, it would result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have no history of paying dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance our growth. If we decide to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock, such dividends may not be paid on a timely basis. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of VaxGen. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock. Our charter and by-laws also provide that special stockholders’ meetings may be called only by our Chairman of the Board of Directors, by our Secretary at the written request of the chairman or by our Board of Directors, with the result that any third-party takeover not supported by the Board of Directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 