ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that you should be aware of, some of which are described below. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described in the following risk factors described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the risks, uncertainties and other factors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or product market share and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. Risks of Market Dynamics Disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit. We may seek or need to raise additional funds. Our ability to obtain financing for general corporate and commercial purposes or acquisitions depends on our operating and financial performance, and is also subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. The global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions. An unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and other governments has been seen. As a result of such disruption, our ability to raise capital may be severely restricted and the cost of raising capital through such markets or privately may increase significantly at a time when we would like, or need, to do so. Either of these events could have an impact on our flexibility to fund our business operations, make capital expenditures, pursue additional expansion or acquisition opportunities, or make another discretionary use of cash and could adversely impact our financial results. In any case, there can be no assurance that such funds, if available at all, can be obtained on terms reasonable to us. We are exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivables. This risk is heightened in times of economic weakness. We are exposed to credit risk in our accounts receivable, and this risk is heightened in times of economic weakness. We distribute our products both through third-party resellers and directly to certain customers and a majority of our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. We may not be able to monitor and limit our exposure to credit risk on our trade and non-trade receivables, we may not be effective in limiting credit risk and avoiding losses. Continuing disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact customers and customer spending patterns. Continuing disruption in the global financial markets as a result of the ongoing global financial uncertainty may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, demand for our products could decrease and differ materially from their current expectations. For example, as part of our focus on the commercial and industrial markets, a portion of our business is subject to conditions in the commercial construction and renovation sector. A decline in new commercial construction or a significant decline in renovation projects due to the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of this business. Further, some of our customers may require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us, or possible insolvencies of our customers, could result in decreased customer demand, an impaired ability for us to collect on outstanding accounts receivable, significant delays in accounts receivable payments, and significant write-offs of accounts receivable, each of which could adversely impact our financial results. 18 Table of Contents Disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact our suppliers. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components or products from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of economic weakness either regionally or globally, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, each of which would adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our products are competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products include: • the extent to which products must support existing industry standards and provide interoperability; • the extent to which standards are widely adopted and product interoperability is required within industry segments; • the extent to which products are differentiated based on technical features, quality and reliability, ease of use, strength of distribution channels and price; and • the ability of suppliers to develop new products quickly to satisfy new market and customer requirements. We currently experience competition from a number of companies in each of our target market segments and we believe that competition in our markets is likely to intensify as a result of anticipated increased demand for secure digital access products. We may not be successful in competing against offerings from other companies and could lose business as a result. We also experience indirect competition from certain of our customers who currently offer alternative products or are expected to introduce competitive products in the future. For example, we sell our products to many OEMs who incorporate our products into their offerings or who resell our products in order to provide a more complete solution to their customers. If our OEM customers develop their own products to replace ours, this would result in a loss of sales to those customers, as well as increased competition for our products in the marketplace. In addition, these OEM customers could cancel outstanding orders for our products, which could cause us to write down inventory already designated for those customers. We may, in the future, face competition from these and other parties that develop digital data security products based upon approaches similar to or different from those employed by us. In addition, the market for digital information security and access control products may ultimately be dominated by approaches other than the approach marketed by us. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower end user price. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Therefore, new competitors, or alliances among competitors, may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. 19 Table of Contents Strategic Risks Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with technological change and meet the needs of our target markets and customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the need to meet market requirements and to differentiate our products through technological enhancements, and in some cases, price. Our customers’ needs change, new technologies are introduced into the market, and industry standards are still evolving. As a result, product life cycles are often short and difficult to predict, and frequently we must develop new products quickly in order to remain competitive in light of new market requirements. Rapid changes in technology, or the adoption of new industry standards, could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Changes in market requirements could render our existing solutions obsolete or could require us to expend more on research and development efforts. For example, a significant portion of our revenues results from the sale of access control panels that include certain design elements that are more than a decade old. These controllers are typically used in a network architecture that may become outdated or obsolete. If a product is deemed to be obsolete or unmarketable, then we might have to reduce revenue expectations or write down inventories for that product. We may also lose market share. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products with clearly differentiated benefits that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and that keep pace with technological developments, new competitive product offerings and emerging industry standards. We must be able to demonstrate that our products have features or functions that are clearly differentiated from existing or anticipated competitive offerings, or we may be unsuccessful in selling these products. Our failure to develop, manufacture, launch and sell next-generation security products and architectures for both physical and logical security could significantly affect our financial performance. In addition, in cases where we are selected to supply products based on features or capabilities that are still under development, we must be able to complete our product design and delivery process on a timely basis, or risk losing current and any future revenue from those products. In developing our products, we must collaborate closely with our customers, suppliers and other strategic partners to ensure that critical development, marketing and distribution projects proceed in a coordinated manner. Also, this collaboration is important because these relationships increase our exposure to information necessary to anticipate trends and plan product development. If any of our current relationships terminate or otherwise deteriorate, or if we are unable to enter into future alliances that provide us with comparable insight into market trends, our product development and marketing efforts may be adversely affected, and we could lose sales. We expect that our product development efforts will continue to require substantial investments and we may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. In some cases, we depend upon partners who provide one or more components of the overall solution for a customer in conjunction with our products. If our partners do not adapt their products and technologies to new market or distribution requirements, or if their products do not work well, then we may not be able to sell our products into certain markets. Because we operate in markets for which industry-wide standards have not yet been fully set, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. If any of the standards supported by us do not achieve or sustain market acceptance, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Sales of our products depend on the development of emerging applications in our target markets and on diversifying and expanding our customer base in new markets and geographic regions, and with new products. We sell our products primarily to address emerging applications that have not yet reached a stage of mass adoption or deployment. For example, we sell our smart card readers for use in various smart card-based security programs in Europe, such as electronic driver’s licenses, national IDs and e-passports, which are applications that 20 Table of Contents are not yet widely implemented. In our Bluehill ID business, our solutions are used in various smart card-based identification programs in Europe, such as transit, payments, ticketing, national and regional IDs and stadiums, which are applications that are not yet widely implemented. We are also focused on expanding sales of professional services, identity management and RFID products and solutions. The market for some of these solutions is at an early stage of development compared to the market for traditional access control. Additionally, we have a strategy of expanding sales of existing product lines into new geographic markets and diversifying and expanding our customer base, and have recently added sales resources to target authentication programs in the government and enterprise sectors in Asia, and have begun to target the photo kiosk markets in Europe and Asia. Because the markets for our products are still emerging, demand for our products is subject to variability from period to period. There is no assurance that demand will become more predictable as additional smart card programs demonstrate success. If demand for products to enable smart card-based security applications does not develop further and grow sufficiently, our revenue and gross profit margins could decline or fail to grow. We cannot predict the future growth rate, if any, or size or composition of the market for any of our products. Our target markets have not consistently grown or developed as quickly as we have expected, and we have experienced delays in the development of new products designed to take advantage of new market opportunities. Since new target markets are still evolving, it is difficult to assess the competitive environment or the size of the market that may develop. The demand and market acceptance for our products, as is common for new technologies, is subject to high levels of uncertainty and risk and may be influenced by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • general economic conditions, for example the economic uncertainty; • our ability to demonstrate to our potential customers and partners the value and benefits of new products; • the ability of our competitors to develop and market competitive solutions for emerging applications in our target markets and our ability to win business in advance of and against such competition; • the adoption and/or continuation of industry or government regulations or policies requiring the use of products such as our smart card readers or identity management solutions; • the timing of large scale security programs involving smart cards and related technology by governments, banks and enterprises; • the ability of financial institutions, corporate enterprises, the U.S. government and other governments to agree on industry specifications and to develop and deploy smart card-based applications that will drive demand for smart card readers and systems such as ours; and • the ability of high capacity flash memory cards to drive demand for digital media readers, such as ours, that enable rapid transfer of large amounts of data, for example digital photographs. We face risks associated with strategic transactions. A component of our ongoing business strategy is to seek to buy businesses, products and technologies that complement or augment our existing businesses, products and technologies. We have in the past acquired or made, and from time to time in the future may acquire or make, investments in companies, products and technologies that we believe are complementary to our existing businesses, products and technologies. For example, on October 1, 2008, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with TranZfinity, Inc., a privately held entity, pursuant to which we purchased 33.7% of the outstanding shares of TranZfinity common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $2.5 million. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we determined that the value of our investment in TranZfinity was impaired and we recorded a charge for the impairment to write-off 100% of our investment and our proportionate losses realized by TranZfinity of $2.2 million. 21 Table of Contents On January 4, 2010, we acquired Bluehill ID AG, a Swiss stock corporation focused on investments in the security and RFID markets. Integrating the Bluehill ID business into our business exposes us to certain risks. The combination of companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of the acquired company. The integration process may divert the attention of our executive officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt our businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full benefits expected from the transaction. Failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating another company’s operations with ours or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of our combined company and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the integration of our two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and loss of customer relationships, and may cause our stock price to decline. Any future acquisition could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, the use of our limited cash balance or potentially dilutive stock offerings to fund such acquisitions; costs of any necessary financing, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; accounting charges we might incur in connection with such acquisitions; the difficulty and expense of integrating personnel, technologies, customer, supplier and distributor relationships, marketing efforts and facilities acquired through acquisitions; integrating internal controls over financial reporting; discovering and correcting deficiencies in internal controls and other regulatory compliance, data adequacy and integrity, product quality and product liabilities; diversion of management resources; failure to realize anticipated benefits; costly fees for legal and transaction-related services; and the unanticipated assumption of liabilities. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful with any such acquisition. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also lead to substantial increases in non-current assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy also contemplates divesting portions of our business from time to time, if and when we believe we would be able to realize greater value for our stockholders in so doing. We have in the past sold, and may from time to time in the future sell, all or one or more portions of our business. Any divestiture or disposition could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, costly fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; loss of key personnel; and reduction in revenue. Further, we may be required to retain or indemnify the buyer against certain liabilities and obligations in connection with any such divestiture or disposition and we may also become subject to third-party claims arising out of such divestiture or disposition. In addition, we may not achieve the expected price in a divestiture transaction. Failure to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Operational Risks We have incurred and will incur significant expenses as a result of our acquisition strategy, which has reduced and will reduce the amount of capital available to fund our business. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to our acquisition strategy, including our acquisition of Hirsch in April 2009, our business combination with Bluehill ID in January 2010 and possible future acquisitions. These expenses include investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and mailing of stockholder materials, integration and other costs, as well as past and possible future outlays of cash. There may also be unanticipated costs related to our acquisition on an ongoing basis. As a result, the capital available to fund our activities has been and is expected to be further reduced. If we are unsuccessful in securing sufficient sales from established markets or in generating sufficient new revenues from emerging markets, then we would likely continue to require cash to fund our operations. The remaining cash available to us might not be adequate in subsequent years. 22 Table of Contents We currently expect that our current capital resources should be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements at least through the end of 2010. We may, however, seek additional debt or equity financing prior to that time. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. The sale of additional debt or equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders. We have incurred operating losses and may not achieve profitability. We have a history of losses with an accumulated deficit of $216.4 million as of December 31, 2009. In the future, we may not be able to achieve expected results, including any guidance or outlook we may provide from time to time; we may continue to incur losses and we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. Our quarterly and annual operating results fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied greatly in the past and will likely vary greatly in the future depending upon a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our revenues, gross profit and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to, among other things: • business and economic conditions overall and in our markets; • the timing and amount of orders we receive from our customers that may be tied to budgetary cycles, seasonal demand, product plans or program roll-out schedules; • cancellations or delays of customer product orders or the loss of a significant customer; • our ability to obtain an adequate supply of components on a timely basis; • poor quality in the supply of our components; • delays in the manufacture of our products; • the absence of significant backlog in our business; • our inventory levels; • our customer and distributor inventory levels and product returns; • competition; • new product announcements or introductions; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, if at all; • our ability to successfully market and sell products into new geographic or market segments; • the sales volume, product configuration and mix of products that we sell; • technological changes in the markets for our products; • the rate of adoption of industry-wide standards; • reductions in the average selling prices that we are able to charge due to competition or other factors; • strategic acquisitions, sales and dispositions; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; • the timing and amount of marketing and research and development expenditures; • loss of key personnel; and • costs related to events such as dispositions, organizational restructuring, headcount reductions, litigation or write-off of investments or goodwill. 23 Table of Contents Due to these and other factors, our revenues may not increase or even remain at their current levels. Because a majority of our operating expenses are fixed, a small variation in our revenues can cause significant variations in our operational results from quarter to quarter and our operating results may vary significantly in future periods. Therefore, our historical results may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. The pre-acquisition financial projections for both our business and Bluehill ID’s business that were prepared in connection with our acquisition of Bluehill ID are only estimates of future results and there is no assurance that actual results will not be different. In connection with the acquisition of Bluehill ID, we and Bluehill ID each created financial projections of our respective businesses. These financial projections are only estimates of possible future operating results and not guarantees of future performance. The future operating results of each company and of the combined company will be affected by numerous factors, including these “Risk Factors.” The actual operating results will likely differ from these financial projections. It is difficult to estimate operating results prior to the end of a quarter. In our ID Management business, sales tend to be relatively linear (regularly spaced throughout the quarter), as they are tied to projects with relatively predictable timelines. In our ID Products business, the main component of sales in any given quarter is sales is smart card reader technology. Historically, many of our smart card reader customers have tended to make a significant portion of their purchases towards the end of the quarter, in part because they believe they are able to negotiate lower prices and more favorable terms. As a result, smart card reader revenue in any quarter depends on contracts entered into or orders booked and shipped in that quarter. This makes it difficult to predict revenues both in our smart card reader business, and for the company overall. The timing of closing larger orders increases the risk of quarter-to-quarter fluctuation in revenues. If orders forecasted for a specific group of customers for a particular quarter are not realized or revenues are not otherwise recognized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we may experience unexpected increases or decreases in demand for our products resulting from fluctuations in our customers’ budgets, purchasing patterns or deployment schedules. These occurrences are not always predictable and can have a significant impact on our results in the period in which they occur. If we do not accurately anticipate the correct mix of products that will be sold, we may be required to record charges related to excess inventories. Due to the unpredictable nature of the demand for our products, we are required to place orders with our suppliers for components, finished products and services in advance of actual customer commitments to purchase these products. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could result in costly excess production or inventories. In order to minimize the negative financial impact of excess production, we may be required to significantly reduce the sales price of the product to increase demand, which in turn could result in a reduction in the value of the original inventory purchase. If we were to determine that we could not utilize or sell this inventory, we may be required to write down its value, which we have done in the past. Writing down inventory or reducing product prices could adversely impact our cost of revenues and financial condition. We may choose to take back unsold inventory from our customers. If demand is less than anticipated, customers may ask that we accept returned products that they do not believe they can sell. We do not have a policy relating to product returns for the majority of our products. However, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relations with our customers. If we were to accept product returns, we may be required to take additional inventory reserves to reflect the decreased market value of slow-selling returned inventory, even if the products are in good working order. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and additional delays could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. In many of our product areas, our initial sales cycle for a new customer usually takes a minimum of six to nine months, and even in the case of established customers, it may take up to a year for us to receive approval for a given purchase from the customer. During this sales cycle, we may expend substantial financial and managerial resources with no assurance that a sale will ultimately result. The length of a new customer’s sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control. These factors include the customer’s product and technical requirements and the level of competition SCM faces for that customer’s business. Any delays in the sales cycle for new customers could delay or reduce our receipt of new revenue and could cause us to expend more resources to obtain new customer wins. If we are unsuccessful in managing sales cycles, our business could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales typically comes from a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers or variability in the timing of orders could negatively impact our operating results. Sales to a relatively small number of customers historically have accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for approximately 42% of our revenue in fiscal 2009 and 58% of revenue in fiscal 2008. We expect that sales of our component products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total sales for the foreseeable future, although the addition of Bluehill ID companies and customers should improve the diversity of our customer base and reduce our reliance on a small number of customers In our SCM Microsystems Digital Media and Connectivity business, approximately two-thirds of our business has typically been generated by two or three customers. The loss of a customer or reduction of orders from a significant customer, including those due to product performance issues, changes in customer buying patterns, or market, economic or competitive conditions in our market segments, could significantly lower our revenues in any period and would increase our dependence on a smaller group of our remaining customers. For example, in the first and fourth quarters of 2009, sales of our digital media readers were significantly lower than in previous quarters due to reduced orders from one major customer in this business. Variations in the timing or patterns of customer orders could also increase our dependence on other customers in any particular period. Dependence on a small number of customers and variations in order levels period to period could result in decreased revenues, decreased margins, and/or inventory or receivables write-offs and otherwise harm our business and operating results. Our business could be adversely affected by significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of governments and governmental entities. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from contracts with international, federal, state and local governments and government agencies, and subcontracts under federal government prime contracts. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to be influenced by our successful procurement of government contracts either directly or through prime contractors. Accordingly, changes in government contracting policies or government budgetary constraints could directly affect its financial performance. Among the factors that could adversely affect our government-related business are: • changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding or grants; • changes in government programs or applicable requirements; • the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; • changes in political or social attitudes with respect to security and defense issues; • potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and • delays in the payment of its invoices by government payment offices. 25 Table of Contents These and other factors could cause governments and governmental agencies, or prime contractors that purchase our products or services, to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from exercising options to renew contracts, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our government customers are subject to stringent budgetary constraints. The award of additional contracts from government agencies could be adversely affected by existing or upcoming spending reduction efforts or budget cutbacks at these agencies. Fluctuations in the valuation of foreign currencies could impact costs and/or revenues we disclose in U.S. dollars, and could result in foreign currency losses. A significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies, principally the euro. The portion of our business conducted in foreign currencies has increased since the Bluehill ID business combination as Bluehill ID conducts more than 95% of its business outside the U.S. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will continue to cause currency exchange gains and losses. If a significant portion of operating expenses are incurred in a foreign currency such as the euro, and revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, exchange rate fluctuations might have a positive or negative net financial impact on these transactions, depending on whether the U.S. dollar devalues or revalues compared to the euro. In addition, the valuation of current assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency can result in currency exchange gains and losses. For example, when an SCM subsidiary has the euro as the functional currency, and this subsidiary has a receivable in U.S. dollars, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the euro of 10% would result in a foreign exchange loss of the reporting entity of 10% of the value of the underlying U.S. dollar receivable. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future quarterly and annual operating results. The effect of currency exchange rate changes may increase or decrease our costs and/or revenues in any given quarter, and we may experience currency losses in the future. To date, we have not adopted a hedging program to protect against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon sales to government programs, which are impacted by uncertainty of timelines and budgetary allocations, delays in developing technology standards, and changes in laws or regulations pertaining to security. Large government programs are a primary target for our ID Management business, as higher security systems employing smart card technology are increasingly used to enable applications ranging from authorizing building and network access for federal employees to paying taxes online, to citizen identification, to receiving health care. Sales to U.S. government agencies and other entities comprise a significant portion of our sales. Additionally, we have sold a significant proportion of our smart card reader products to the U.S. government for PC and network access by military and federal employees, and these sales have been an important component of our overall revenue. Government-sponsored projects are typically characterized by the uncertainty of their timelines and budget allocations and delays in developing technology standards to enable program applications. Additionally, many government programs are subject to changes in laws or regulations, such as those pertaining to authentication of government personnel, trade practices or health insurance documentation. Changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding or grants could adversely affect our sales, as could changes in government programs or applicable requirements. Additionally, discontinuance of, changes in, or lack of adoption of laws or regulations pertaining to security could adversely affect our financial performance. In recent periods, we have experienced a significant decrease in sales of our SCM Microsystems external smart card readers to the U.S. government, primarily due to weaker demand in this market as a result of ongoing project and budget delays and a movement by the U.S. government towards purchasing computer equipment with embedded reader capabilities. We continue to believe that we remain a leading supplier of smart card reader technology to the U.S. government market and that we are not losing share to competitors. However, lower overall market demand and the replacement of external smart card reader sales with sales of lower-priced interface chips for embedded readers is a trend that we do not think will reverse. 26 Table of Contents We anticipate that a significant portion of our future revenues will come from government programs outside the U.S., such as national identity, e-government, e-health and others applications. We currently supply smart card readers for various government programs in Europe and Asia and are actively targeting additional programs in these areas as well as in Latin America. We also have spent significant resources developing a range of e-health smart card terminals for the German government’s electronic health card program. However, the timing of government smart card programs is not always certain and delays in program implementation are common. For example, while the German government had stated that it planned to distribute new electronic health cards to its citizens beginning in early 2009, and to put in place a corresponding network and card reader infrastructure during 2009, there have been delays in this program and the actual timing of equipment and card deployments in the German e-health program remain uncertain. The continued delay of government projects for any reason could negatively impact our sales. We derive a substantial portion of revenue through the sale of Hirsch solutions to U.S. government entities, pursuant to government contracts which differ materially from standard commercial contracts, involve competitive bidding and may be subject to cancellation or delay without penalty, any of which may produce volatility in our revenues and earnings. Government contracts frequently include provisions that are not standard in private commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may include bonding requirements and provisions permitting the purchasing agency to cancel or delay the contract without penalty in certain circumstances. In addition, government contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which have been and may continue to be protracted, and typically impose provisions that permit cancellation in the event that necessary funds are unavailable to the public agency. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders for government agency contracts are provided the opportunity to formally protest certain contract awards through various agency, administrative and judicial channels. The protest process may substantially delay a successful bidder’s contract performance, result in cancellation of the contract award entirely and distract management. We may not be awarded contracts for which we bid, and substantial delays or cancellation of purchases may even follow our successful bids as a result of such protests. Furthermore, local government agency contracts may be contingent upon availability of matching funds from federal or state entities. Law enforcement and other government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints which may cause our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results to fluctuate in a manner that is difficult to predict. Our U.S. government business is dependent upon receipt of certain governmental approvals or certifications, and failure to receive such approvals or certifications could have a material adverse effect on our sales in those market segments for which such approvals or certifications are customary or required. The U.S. federal government represents a significant portion of our revenues. Failing to obtain certain government approvals or certifications could have a material adverse effect in those market segments for which such approvals or certifications are customary or required. As newer versions of existing products, or new products in development, are released, they may require certifications or approvals. In addition, the government may introduce new requirements that some existing products will be required to meet. If we fail to obtain any required approvals or certifications for our products, our business will suffer. Our business could be adversely affected by negative audits by government agencies; we could be required to reimburse the U.S. government for costs that we have expended on government contracts; and our ability to compete successfully for future contracts could be materially impaired. Government agencies may audit our business as part of their routine audits and investigations of government contracts. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance on contracts, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These agencies may also review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our own internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. If any of our costs are found to be 27 Table of Contents improperly allocated to a specific contract, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed for such contract may have to be refunded. An audit could materially affect our business’ competitive position and result in a material adjustment to our financial results or statement of operations. If a government agency audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the federal government. In addition, our business could suffer serious harm to its reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against it. While our business has never had a negative audit by a governmental agency, we cannot assure you that one will not occur. If we were suspended or barred from contracting with the federal government generally, or if our reputation or relationships with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenues and prospects would be materially harmed. Some of our sales are made through distributors, and the loss of such distributors could result in decreased revenue. We currently use distributors to sell some of our products, primarily into markets or customers where the distributor may have closer relationships or greater access than we do. Some of these distributors also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our competitors’ products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our sales to suffer. Distribution arrangements are intended to benefit both us and the distributor, and may be long- or short-term relationships, depending on market conditions, competition in the marketplace and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective distribution channels, there could be a reduction in the amount of product we are able to sell, and our revenues could decrease. Our business could suffer if our third-party manufacturers cannot meet production requirements. Many of the Company’s products are manufactured outside the U.S. by contract manufacturers. Our reliance on foreign manufacturing poses a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing; • currency fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • export controls; • political and economic instability; • lack of control over the manufacturing process and ultimately over the quality of our products; • late delivery of our products, whether because of limited access to our product components, transportation delays and interruptions, difficulties in staffing, or disruptions such as natural disasters; • capacity limitations of our manufacturers, particularly in the context of new large contracts for our products, whether because our manufacturers lack the required capacity or are unwilling to produce the quantities we desire; and • obsolescence of our hardware products at the end of the manufacturing cycle. 28 Table of Contents The use of contract manufacturing requires us to exercise strong planning and management in order to ensure that our products are manufactured on schedule, to correct specifications and to a high standard of quality. If any of our contract manufacturers cannot meet our production requirements, we may be required to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers. We may be unable to identify or qualify new contract manufacturers in a timely manner or at all or with reasonable terms and these new manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of our products from our current or alternative manufacturers would materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, if we are not successful at managing the contract manufacturing process, the quality of our products could be jeopardized or inventories could be too low or too high, which could result in damage to our reputation with our customers and in the marketplace, as well as possible write-offs of excess inventory. We have a limited number of suppliers of key components, and may experience difficulties in obtaining components for which there is significant demand. We rely upon a limited number of suppliers for some key components of our products. For example, we currently utilize the foundry services of external suppliers to produce our ASICs for smart cards readers, and we use chips and antenna components from third-party suppliers in our contactless smart card readers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers may expose us to various risks including, without limitation, an inadequate supply of components, price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality. In addition, some of the basic components used in our digital media reader business, such as digital flash media, may at any time be in great demand. This could result in components not being available to us in a timely manner or at all, particularly if larger companies have ordered more significant volumes of those components, or in higher prices being charged for components. Disruption or termination of the supply of components or software used in our products could delay shipments of our products. These delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Security breaches in systems we sell or maintain could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity. Many of the systems we sell manage private personal information and protect information involved in sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business as a result of negative publicity and could prevent us from having further access to such systems or other similarly sensitive areas for other governmental clients. As part of our technical support services, we agree, from time to time, to possess all or a portion of the security system database of our customers. This service is subject to a number of risks. For example, our systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins and service disruptions that could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could be very expensive to correct, could damage our reputation and could discourage potential customers from using our services. Although we have not experienced attempted break-ins, we may experience such attempts in the future. Our systems may also be affected by outages, delays and other difficulties. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. Failure to properly manage the implementation of customer projects in our business may result in costs or claims against us, and our financial results could be adversely affected. In our business, deployments of our solutions often involve large-scale projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage relationships with our customers and to effectively manage the implementation of our solutions in such projects and to deploy appropriate resources, including our own project managers and third-party subcontractors, in a timely manner. Any defects or errors or failures to meet clients’ expectations could result in damage to our reputation or even claims for 29 Table of Contents substantial monetary damages against us. In addition, we sometimes provide guarantees to customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that our solutions will achieve defined performance standards. If our solutions experience a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we will incur in our remedial efforts, which could materially impair profit derived from a particular project. Moreover, a portion of our revenues are derived from fixed price contracts. Changes in the actual and estimated costs and time to complete fixed-price, time-certain projects may result in revenue adjustments for contracts where revenue is recognized under the percentage of completion method. Finally, if we miscalculate the amount of resources or time we need to complete a project for which we have agreed to capped or fixed fees, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue and result in costly litigation or liability. Products such as SCM Microsystems’ smart card readers, Hirsch’s control panels and readers and TagStar’s inlays may contain defects for many reasons, including defective design or manufacture, defective material or software interoperability issues. Often, these defects are not detected until after the products have been shipped. If any of our products contain defects or perceived defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems or perceived problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly, we could lose or experience a delay in market acceptance of the affected product or products and we might be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales. In the event of an actual or perceived defect or other problem, we may need to invest significant capital, technical, managerial and other resources to investigate and correct the potential defect or problem and potentially divert these resources from other development efforts. If we are unable to provide a solution to the potential defect or problem that is acceptable to our customers, we may be required to incur substantial product recall, repair and replacement and even litigation costs. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We provide warranties on certain product sales, which range from twelve to twenty-four months, and allowances for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of product return rates and expected costs to repair or to replace the products under warranty. We currently establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for each product line combined with liability estimates based on the prior twelve months’ sales activities. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of sales may be required in future periods. In addition, because our customers rely on our Secure Authentication products to prevent unauthorized access to PCs, networks or facilities, a malfunction of or design defect in our products (or even a perceived defect) could result in legal or warranty claims against us for damages resulting from security breaches. If such claims are adversely decided against us, the potential liability could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, the possible publicity associated with any such claim, whether or not decided against us, could adversely affect our reputation. In addition, a well-publicized security breach involving smart card-based or other security systems could adversely affect the market’s perception of products like ours in general, or our products in particular, regardless of whether the breach is actual or attributable to our products. Any of the foregoing events could cause demand for our products to decline, which would cause our business and operating results to suffer. We have global operations, which require significant financial, managerial and administrative resources. Our business model includes the management of separate product lines that address disparate market opportunities that are geographically dispersed. While there is some shared technology across our products, each product line requires significant research and development effort to address the evolving needs of our customers and markets. To support our development and sales efforts, we maintain company offices and business operations in several locations around the world, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, 30 Table of Contents Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the U.S. We also must manage contract manufacturers in multiple countries, including China and Singapore. Managing our various development, sales, administrative and manufacturing operations places a significant burden on our financial systems and has contributed to a level of operational spending that is disproportionately high compared to our current revenue levels. Operating in diverse geographic locations also imposes significant burdens on our managerial resources. In particular, our management must: • divert a significant amount of time and energy to manage employees and contractors from diverse cultural backgrounds and who speak different languages; • travel between our different company offices; • maintain sufficient internal financial controls in multiple geographic locations that may have different control environments; • manage different product lines for different markets; • manage our supply and distribution channels across different countries and business practices; and • coordinate these efforts to produce an integrated business effort, focus and vision. Any failure to effectively manage our operations globally could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S. Economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. We conduct a substantial portion of our business in Europe and Asia. Approximately 40% of our revenue for fiscal 2009, 57% of our revenue for fiscal 2008 and 49% of our revenue for fiscal 2007 was derived from customers located outside the U.S. Our recent acquisition of Bluehill ID further increases our non-US business, as Bluehill ID conducts a substantial portion of its business in Germany, and in the rest of Europe, Canada, Brazil, and Australia. Nearly all of Bluehill ID’s revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 98% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 was derived from customers located outside the U.S. Because a significant number of our principal customers are located in other countries, we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, a significant portion of our sales and operations may continue to be subject to risks associated with foreign operations, any of which could impact our sales and/or our operational performance. These risks include, but are not limited to: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions and stability, particularly in emerging markets; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • export controls; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • difficulty in managing widespread sales and manufacturing operations; and • less effective protection of intellectual property. 31 Table of Contents Personnel Risks Our key personnel and directors are critical to our business, and such key personnel may not remain with us in the future. We depend on the continued employment of our senior executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. If any of our key personnel were to leave and not be replaced with sufficiently qualified and experienced personnel, our business could be adversely affected. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. However, competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to retain our key technical and management employees or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future. Likewise, as a small, dual-traded company, we are challenged to identify, attract and retain experienced professionals with diverse skills and backgrounds who are qualified and willing to serve on our Board of Directors. The increased burden of regulatory compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 creates additional liability and exposure for directors and financial losses in our business and lack of growth in our stock price make it difficult for us to offer attractive director compensation packages. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified board members, our ability to practice a high level of corporate governance could be impaired. Risks of Financial and Capital Markets Our stock price has been and is likely to remain volatile. Over the past few years, the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Exchange have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of the stocks of technology companies. Volatility in our stock price on either or both exchanges may result from a number of factors, including, among others: • low volumes of trading activity in our stock, particularly in the U.S.; • variations in our or our competitors’ financial and/or operational results; • the fluctuation in market value of comparable companies in any of our markets; • expected, perceived or announced relationships or transactions with third parties; • comments and forecasts by securities analysts; • trading patterns of our stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market or Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange; • the inclusion or removal of our stock from market indices, such as groups of technology stocks or other indices; • loss of key personnel; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements of dispositions, organizational restructuring, headcount reductions, litigation or write-off of investments; • litigation developments; and • general market downturns. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 32 Table of Contents SCM common stock has historically traded at a very low volume. The market price of SCM common stock could decline as a result of the large number of shares that have been issued to the former Hirsch and Bluehill ID shareholders and that are currently eligible for sale or securities that have been issued to the former Hirsch shareholders that will become exercisable for shares of SCM common stock in the future. The new shares of SCM common stock issued as consideration in connection with the acquisition of Hirsch became freely saleable on January 30, 2010 and the warrants to purchase shares of SCM common stock will be exercisable for a two year period beginning on April 30, 2012. The new shares of SCM common stock issued to former Bluehill ID shareholders in the business combination with Bluehill ID are unrestricted and can be freely traded. Consequently, a substantial number of additional shares of SCM common stock have recently become available for resale in the public market. Stockholders of SCM and former shareholders of Hirsch or Bluehill ID may not wish to continue to invest in the operations of the company or may wish to dispose of some or all of their interests in SCM. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of both the newly issued and the existing SCM common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our stock, and future sales of shares of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our stock price. In connection with the acquisition of Hirsch on April 30, 2009, after giving effect to the acquisition, we issued approximately 9.4 million shares of SCM common stock, and warrants to purchase approximately 4.7 million shares of SCM common stock, as consideration for the outstanding shares of Hirsch common stock. In connection with our business combination with Bluehill ID on January 4, 2010, we issued approximately 15.3 million shares of SCM common stock as consideration for the outstanding shares in Bluehill ID that were tendered in the transaction. From time to time, in the future we also may issue additional previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue up to 60,000,000 shares of common stock. At our 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders our stockholders will be considering a proposal to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock by 20,000,000 shares to a total of 80,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 5, 2010, 39,160,319 shares of common stock were outstanding. In 2007, our Board of Directors and our stockholders approved our 2007 stock option plan, under which, as amended in October 2009, options to purchase 3.5 million shares of our common stock may be granted. As of December 31, 2009, an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock was reserved for future issuance under all our stock option plans, of which 2.4 million shares were subject to outstanding options. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements, or future public offerings of our securities for capital raising or for other business purposes. If we issue additional securities, the aggregate percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced. In addition, any new securities that we issue may have rights senior to those of our common stock. Additionally, as of December 31, 2009, warrants to purchase approximately 4.9 million shares of SCM common stock were outstanding. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock or other securities, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the “lock-up” placed on the shares of our common stock issued to former Hirsch shareholders in connection with the merger of SCM and Hirsch which have restricted their transfer or sale released in its entirety on January 30, 2010, which could add additional downward pressure on the trading price of SCM common stock. The large percentage ownership of SCM common stock by former shareholders of Hirsch and Bluehill ID gives those shareholders significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result of our acquisitions of Hirsch and Bluehill ID, the former Hirsch shareholders beneficially own approximately 22% and the former Bluehill ID shareholders beneficially own approximately 38% of SCM’s 33 Table of Contents common stock. Accordingly, the former Hirsch and Bluehill ID shareholders hold significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the SCM stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of SCM’s assets or any other significant corporate transaction, such that such former shareholders of Hirsch or Bluehill ID could delay or prevent a change of control of SCM, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The interests of the former Hirsch and Bluehill ID shareholders may differ from the interests of other stockholders. Several of our directors directly or indirectly hold significant amounts of our common stock, and each of them could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and stockholder approval, respectively. In some cases, their priorities for our business may be different from ours or our other stockholders. As of January 4, 2010, Mountain Partners AG, together with its affiliates and certain related parties, including Mountain Partners Angel Fund and BH Capital Management (collectively “Mountain Partners”), directly or indirectly owned approximately 20.5% of the outstanding common shares of our common stock and had the right to vote approximately 14.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Daniel Wenzel, a director of our Company, is a co-founder and current affiliate of Mountain Partners and also may be deemed to beneficially own, either directly or indirectly through limited partnerships, the SCM shares beneficially owned by Mountain Partners. Additionally, Mr. Wenzel and Ayman S. Ashour, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, are also affiliates of BH Capital Management AG, which is 51% owned by Mountain Partners AG and which at January 4, 2010 owned and had the right to vote approximately 5.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Consequently Messrs. Ashour and Wenzel also may be deemed to beneficially own, either directly or indirectly through limited partnerships, the SCM shares beneficially owned by BH Capital Management AG. As of January 4, 2010, Lincoln Vale owned and had the right to vote approximately 8.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Dr. Hans Liebler, one of our directors, is a partner of Lincoln Vale and also may be deemed to beneficially own, either directly or indirectly through limited partnerships, the SCM shares beneficially owned by Lincoln Vale. As of January 4, 2010, Lawrence Midland, a director and an executive vice president of SCM, held approximately 3.3% of our common stock. Mr. Midland’s shares are held in a family trust and in custodianship for his children, and he may be deemed to beneficially own the SCM shares. Accordingly, Mr. Ayman, Dr. Liebler, Mr. Midland, Mr. Wenzel, BH Capital Management AG, Lincoln Vale and Mountain Partners could each have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and stockholder approval, respectively, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. In addition, Mr. Ayman, Dr. Liebler, Mr. Midland, Mr. Wenzel, BH Capital Management AG, Lincoln Vale and Mountain Partners could each delay or prevent a change of control of SCM, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. Shares of SCM common stock beneficially owned by our largest investors will count toward whether a quorum is achieved. To achieve a quorum at SCM’s annual stockholder meeting requires at least one-third of all shares of SCM’s stock entitled to vote be present in person or by proxy at the SCM annual meeting. If the shares beneficially owned by each of Lincoln Vale, Mountain Partners and BH Capital Management AG (including the interests of Messrs. Ashour, Liebler and Wenzel) are present in person or by proxy at the SCM annual meeting, they will contribute approximately 28.6% toward the 33.3% of shares of SCM common stock required to achieve a quorum. Our listing on both the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange exposes our stock price to additional risks of fluctuation. Our common stock is listed both on the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and we typically experience the majority of our trading on the Prime Standard. Because of this, 34 Table of Contents factors that would not otherwise affect a stock traded solely on the NASDAQ Stock Market may cause our stock price to fluctuate. For example, European investors may react differently and more positively or negatively than investors in the U.S. to events such as acquisitions, dispositions, one-time charges and higher or lower than expected revenue or earnings announcements. A significant positive or negative reaction by investors in Europe to such events could cause our stock price to increase or decrease significantly. The European economy and market conditions in general, or downturns on the Prime Standard specifically, regardless of the NASDAQ Stock Market conditions, also could negatively impact our stock price. Provisions in our agreements, charter documents, Delaware law and our rights plan may delay or prevent the acquisition of SCM by another company, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or enter into a material transaction with us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The triggering and exercise of the rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. While the rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of our company, they may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of us that was deemed to be undesirable by our Board of Directors. These provisions will apply even if the offer were to be considered adequate by some of our stockholders. Because these provisions may be deemed to discourage a change of control, they may delay or prevent the acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our business could be adversely affected by changes in laws or regulations pertaining to security. The U.S. federal government, contractors to the federal government and certain industries in the public sector currently fall, or may in the future fall, under particular regulations pertaining to security. Some of the laws, regulations, certifications or requirements that may stimulate new security systems sales include the following: • Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12 and Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 201 produced by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST); • Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA); • Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) program; • Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (also known as the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act); • Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA); • Gramm-Leach Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA, a.k.a., the Financial Modernization Act); • Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT); • Free and Secure Trade Program (FAST); • Chemical Facility Anti Terrorism Standards (CFATS); and 35 Table of Contents • various codes of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). Discontinuance of, changes in, or lack of adoption of laws or regulations pertaining to security could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and any failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Our business is affected by and must comply with various government regulations that impact its operating costs, profit margins and its internal organization and operations. Furthermore, our business may be audited to assure compliance with these requirements. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties, the loss of government contracts or the cancellation of our General Services Administration contract, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among the most significant regulations affecting our business are the following: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations, or the FAR, and agency regulations supplemental to the FAR, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under cost-based government contracts; • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These regulations affect how our customers can do business with us, and, in some instances, the regulations impose added costs on our business. Any changes in applicable laws and regulations could restrict our ability to conduct our business. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government generally. If we are unable to continue to obtain U.S. government authorization regarding the export of our products, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries, which could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. In our business, we must comply with U.S. and European Union (“EU”) laws, among others, regulating the export of our products. In some cases, explicit authorization from the U.S. or an EU government is needed to export our products. The export regimes and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to changes. We cannot be certain that such export authorizations will be available to us or for our products in the future. In some cases, we rely upon the compliance activities of our prime contractors, and we cannot be certain they have taken or will take all measures necessary to comply with applicable export laws. If we or our prime contractor partners cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in certain international jurisdictions. We face risks from future claims of third parties and litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to claims of third parties, possibly resulting in litigation, which could include, among other things, claims regarding infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, product defects, employment-related claims, and claims related to acquisitions, dispositions or restructurings. 36 Table of Contents Any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, require us to accept returns of products and to write off inventory, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. We expect the likelihood of intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our markets grows and as we increasingly incorporate third-party technology into our products. As a result of infringement claims, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third-party or redesign our products. Licenses may not be offered when we need them or on acceptable terms. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments or we may be required to license some of our intellectual property to others in return for such licenses. If we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary for us or our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our allegedly infringing products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We may also be unsuccessful in redesigning our products. Our suppliers and customers may be subject to infringement claims based on intellectual property included in our products. We have historically agreed to indemnify our suppliers and customers for patent infringement claims relating to our products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorney’s fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third-party claims for patent infringement. We may be exposed to risks of intellectual property infringement by third parties. Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, which afford only limited protection. We may not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology through patents, it is possible that no new patents will be issued, that our proprietary products or technologies are not patentable or that any issued patent will fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. There has been a great deal of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights, and from time to time we may be required to use litigation to protect our proprietary technology. This may result in our incurring substantial costs and we may not be successful in any such litigation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to use our proprietary information and software without authorization. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Because many of our products are sold and a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., our exposure to intellectual property risks may be higher. Our means of protecting our proprietary and intellectual property rights may not be adequate. There is a risk that our competitors will independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or design around patents or other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property or our products or technologies are duplicated by others, our business could be harmed. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters may adversely affect our future results. A number of factors may impact our tax position, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; 37 Table of Contents • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any of these factors could make it more difficult for us to project or achieve expected tax results. An increase or decrease in our tax liabilities due to these or other factors could adversely affect our financial results in future periods. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Standards Accounting Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting rules and policies. A change in those rules or policies could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Any changes in accounting rules or policies in the future may result in significant accounting charges. We face costs and risks associated with maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting, and if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us could be materially affected. Under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated, and expect to continue to dedicate, significant management, financial and other resources in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The process of maintaining and evaluating the effectiveness of these controls is expensive, time-consuming and requires significant attention from our management and staff. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time from other activities. We have found a material weakness in our internal controls in the past and we cannot be certain in the future that we will be able to report that our controls are without material weakness or to complete our evaluation of those controls in a timely fashion. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to rely on the integrity of our financial results, which could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results and investigation by regulatory authorities. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. In addition, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of control can provide absolute assurance, that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Any failure of our internal control systems to be effective could adversely affect our business. 38 Table of Contents Following the business combination with Bluehill ID, we will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management may be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a U.S. public company, the Company currently incurs significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time and financial resources to these compliance initiatives. Following the completion of an acquisition, the acquired business becomes a subsidiary of the Company and is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Company continue to be subject to all of the same obligations. Bringing an acquired company into compliance requires significant expenditures and places additional demands on the Company’s management and may divert our management’s time and attention away from the day-to-day operations of the business. These obligations may also require us to hire additional personnel following any acquisition. The integration of our Hirsch operations and the work to bring Hirsch into compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley regulations is ongoing and we expect it will be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2010. Bluehill ID is currently evaluating its internal controls systems in order to enable the Company to report on, and SCM’s independent registered public accounting firm after the business combination to attest to, internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Company and Bluehill ID cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of the evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on the operations of the Company after the business combination. If, after the business combination, we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately, or maintain internal controls adequate to meet the demands that are placed upon us as a U.S. public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and our business and stock price may suffer. The costs of being a public company, as well as diversion of management’s time and attention, may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Qualified management, marketing, and sales personnel are difficult to locate, hire and train, and if we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, it will harm the ability of our business to grow. The success of our company depends, in part, on the continued service of key managerial, marketing and sales personnel. Competition for qualified management, technical, sales and marketing employees is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, retain and integrate employees to develop and continue our business and strategies as a combined company. We may not have uncovered all the risks associated with the acquisition of Bluehill ID and a significant liability may be discovered in the future. There may be risks that we failed to discover in the course of performing our due diligence investigations related to the acquisition of Bluehill ID, which could result in significant liabilities arising in the future. The business combination agreement does not provide for the Company’s indemnification by the former Bluehill ID shareholders against any of Bluehill ID’s liabilities, should they arise or become known after the closing of the offer. Furthermore, there is no escrow account or indemnity agreement protecting us in the event of any breach of Bluehill ID’s representations and warranties in the business combination agreement. Any significant liability that may arise may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects by requiring us to expend significant funds to satisfy such liability. Bluehill ID’s corporate records may be incomplete. Certain Bluehill ID Group Companies were not able to provide SCM with complete corporate records as part of the due diligence process in order to document the history of their share ownership, and certain share 39 Table of Contents transfers may be non-compliant with form requirements applicable to such share transfer. Besides uncertainties as to the ownership in any such Bluehill ID Group Company, this could result in difficulties with performing corporate functions, future challenges to shareholders’ resolutions passed or potential litigation involving the Bluehill ID Group Company concerned. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or its results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 