ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our Class A or Class B common stock. THE ECONOMY WILL IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The Company’s operations and performance are impacted by worldwide economic conditions, which are themselves impacted by other events, such as natural disasters and political turmoil. For example, recent incidents in Japan have disrupted the global supply chain and political unrest in the Middle East has increased the volatility of oil prices. Such events, as well as continued US military interventions, demonstrate that our customers’ ability to find markets and purchase our products is subject to events outside our control. Ongoing uncertainty about current global economic conditions may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, high unemployment, natural disasters, political unrest and negative financial news. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also increase the volatility of the Company’s stock price. RISK OF FLUCTUATIONS IN REVENUE AND EXPENSE Because of significant fluctuations in our revenue, period-to-period comparisons of our revenue or profit may not be meaningful. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. Such fluctuations have resulted from the seasonality of our customers’ manufacturing businesses and budget cycles and other factors. As a result, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our revenue will grow in future periods or that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. A significant portion of our revenue in any quarter may be derived from a limited number of large, non-recurring license sales. We may experience large individual license sales, which may cause significant variations in license fees. We also believe that the purchase of our products is discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of a customer’s capital resources. Therefore, a downturn in any significant customer’s business could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and profit. The services business may fluctuate. Services revenue is dependent upon the timing and size of customer orders to provide the services, as well as upon our related license sales. In addition, continuous engagement services, such as Application Management Services offerings, may involve fixed price arrangements, fixed costs and significant staffing which require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts. Variances between these estimates and assumptions and actual results could have an adverse affect on our profit margin and/or generate negative cash flow. To the extent that we are not successful in securing orders from customers to provide services, or to the extent we are not successful in achieving the expected margin on such services, our results may be negatively affected. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from maintenance renewals with our existing installed base of customers. Significant portions of our maintenance revenues are generated from the Company’s installed base of customers. Maintenance and support agreements with these customers are traditionally renewed on an annual basis at the customer’s discretion, and there is normally no requirement that a customer renew or that a customer pay new license or service fees to QAD following the initial purchase. If our existing customers do not renew their maintenance agreements or fail to purchase new user licenses or product enhancements or additional services at historical levels, our revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted. 11 Table of Contents Our maintenance renewal rate is dependent upon a number of factors such as our ability to continue to develop and maintain our products, our ability to continue to recruit and retain qualified personnel to assist our customers, and our ability to promote the value of maintenance for our products to our customers. Maintenance renewals are also dependent upon factors beyond our control such as technology changes and their adoption by our customers, budgeting decisions by our customers, changes in our customers’ strategy or ownership and plans by our customers to replace our products with competing products. If our maintenance renewal rate were to fall, our revenue would be adversely affected. Fixed expense level is based on expected revenues. Our expense level is relatively fixed and is based, in significant part, on expectations of future revenue. If revenue levels fall below expectations, expenses could be disproportionately high as a percentage of total revenue, which would adversely affect our operating results. Health care reform in the United States could increase the costs of maintaining our health benefit programs. Legislation addressing health care reform could have a significant ongoing impact on the costs of maintaining our employee health benefit programs and our tax liabilities, which would significantly impact our annual net income and cash flows. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may differ from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We report our results of operations based on our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Periodically, we may receive notices that a tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority, in which case, we may engage in discussions or possible disputes with these tax authorities. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Audits or disputes relating to non-income taxes may result in additional liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in various jurisdictions; • Changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations thereof; • Changes in tax rates; • Tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; • Changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; • Assessments and any related tax interest or penalties; and • Discrete items which are not related to income. 12 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH SALES CYCLE Our products involve a long sales cycle and the timing of sales is difficult to predict. Because the licensing of our primary products generally involves a significant commitment of capital or a long-term commitment by our customers, the sales cycle associated with a customer’s purchase of our products is generally lengthy. This cycle varies from customer to customer and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. The evaluation process that our customers follow generally involves many of their personnel and requires complex demonstrations and presentations to satisfy their needs. Significant effort is required from QAD to support this approach, whether we are ultimately successful or not. If sales forecasted for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, then we are unlikely to be able to generate revenue from alternative sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. As a result, a lost or delayed sale could have an adverse effect on our quarterly and/or annual operating results. In some cases, we provide a portion of a customer solution that also depends on third parties. While we believe we have established a robust global support and services organization, we continue to rely on third parties for a portion of our implementation and systems support services. We also occasionally cooperate with third party software providers of point solutions as part of an overall proposal. In some situations, such as when these third parties are the primary contractor or otherwise an essential party to a larger arrangement, this reliance on third parties may cause sales cycles to be lengthened and/or may result in the loss of sales. We have historically recognized a substantial portion of our revenue from sales booked and shipped in the last month of a quarter. As a result, the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations in license fees may not become evident until the end of a particular quarter. Our revenue from license fees in any quarter is substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. We are unlikely to be able to generate revenue from alternative sources if we discover a shortfall near the end of a quarter. We must hire and retain highly skilled sales and marketing personnel to be successful in the sales cycle. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in hiring and retaining appropriate sales and marketing personnel in accordance with our plans. Neither can there be assurance that our recent and planned strategies in sales and marketing will ultimately prove to be successful. In addition, our sales and marketing organization may not be able to compete successfully against the significantly more extensive and better funded sales and marketing operations of many of our current and potential competitors. DEPENDENCE ON THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS We are dependent on Progress Software Corporation. The majority of QAD Enterprise Applications are written in a programming language that is proprietary to Progress Software Corporation (“Progress”). These QAD Enterprise Applications do not run within programming environments other than Progress and therefore our customers must acquire rights to Progress software in order to use these QAD Enterprise Applications. We have an agreement with Progress under which Progress licenses us to distribute and use Progress software related to our products. This agreement remains in effect unless terminated either by a written three-year advance notice or due to a material breach that is not remedied. Our success is dependent upon our continuing relationship with Progress. It is also dependent upon Progress continuing to develop, support and enhance its programming language, its toolset and its database, as well as the continued market acceptance of Progress as a standard database program. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience product release delays because of delays in the release of Progress products or product enhancements. Any of these delays could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on other third-party suppliers. We resell certain software which we license from third parties other than Progress. There can be no assurance that these third-party software arrangements and licenses will continue to be available to us on terms that provide us with the third-party software we require, provide adequate functionality in our products on terms that adequately protect our proprietary rights or are commercially favorable to us. Certain QAD Enterprise Applications are developed using embedded programming tools from Microsoft and Sun Microsystems (owned by our competitor Oracle) for the Microsoft.NET framework and Java Programming environments, respectively. We rely on these environments’ continued compatibility with customers’ desktop and server operating systems. In the event that this compatibility is limited, some of our customers may not be able to easily upgrade their QAD software. If the present method of licensing the .NET framework as part of Microsoft’s Desktop Operating systems is changed and a separate price were applied to the .NET framework, our expenses could increase substantially. Similarly, if Oracle decided to charge fees or otherwise change the historical licensing terms for Java technology, our expenses could increase substantially. For both of the .Net and Java elements, we rely on market acceptance and maintenance of these environments and we may be adversely affected if these were withdrawn or superseded in the market. We also maintain development, product, and supplier services alliances with third-parties. These alliances include software developed to be sold in conjunction with QAD Enterprise Applications, technology developed to be included in or encapsulated within QAD Enterprise Applications, joint development efforts with partners or customers, and third-party software programs that generally are not sold with QAD Enterprise Applications, but interoperate directly with QAD Enterprise Applications. We also have a service provider agreement for the provision of certain infrastructure related to our On Demand offerings. Our strategy may include additional investment in research and development efforts involving third parties, as well as a greater focus on potential acquisitions to aid in expanding the breadth of the product line. 13 Table of Contents Our partner agreements, including development, product acquisition and reseller agreements, contain appropriate confidentiality, indemnity and non-disclosure provisions for the third-party and end-user. Failure to establish or maintain successful relationships with these third parties or failure of these parties to develop and support their software, provide appropriate services and fulfill confidentiality, indemnity and non-disclosure obligations could have an adverse effect on us. We have been in the past, and expect to be in the future, party to disputes about ownership, license scope and royalty or fee terms with respect to intellectual property. RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE The market for QAD Enterprise Applications is characterized by rapid technological change. Customer requirements for products can change rapidly as a result of innovation or change within the computer hardware and software industries, the introduction of new products and technologies and the emergence of, adoption of, or changes to, industry standards. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to enhance our current product line and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, keep pace with industry and compliance standards and achieve market acceptance. Our failure to successfully develop or acquire and market product enhancements or new products could have an adverse effect on us. New software releases and enhancements may adversely affect our software sales. The actual or anticipated introduction of new products, technologies and industry standards can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable or result in delays in the purchase of those products. Significant delays in launching new products may also jeopardize our ability to compete. Failure by us to anticipate or respond to developments in technology or customer requirements, significant delays in the introduction of new products or failure by us to maintain overall customer satisfaction could have an adverse effect. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND CUSTOMER CONTRACTS Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of protections provided by applicable copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, as well as on confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights in our software and related materials and information. We enter into licensing agreements with each of our customers and these agreements provide for the non-exclusive use of QAD Enterprise Applications. Our license contracts contain confidentiality and non-disclosure provisions, a limited warranty covering our applications and indemnification for the customer from infringement actions related to our applications. We license our source code to our customers, which makes it possible for others to copy or modify our software for impermissible purposes. We generally license our software to end-users in both object code (machine-readable) and source code (human-readable) formats. While this practice facilitates customization, making software available in source code also makes it possible for others to copy or modify our software for impermissible purposes. Our license agreements generally allow the use and customization of our software solely by the customer for internal purposes without the right to sublicense or transfer the software to third-parties. We believe that the measures we take to protect our intellectual property afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for others to copy portions of our products, reverse engineer them or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, all of which could adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar to ours. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The success of our business is highly dependent on maintenance of intellectual property rights. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may increase the cost of protecting these rights or reduce our revenues. We may initiate, or be subject to, claims or litigation for infringement of proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights, which could result in significant expense to us, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter royalty or licensing agreements and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, whether or not such litigation were determined in our favor. We may be exposed to product liability claims and other liability. While our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims and other liability, it is possible that such provisions may not be effective under all circumstances. We have an errors and omissions insurance policy. However, this insurance may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may be subject to product liability claims or errors or omissions claims that could have an adverse effect on us. Moreover, defending a suit, regardless of its merits, could entail substantial expense and require the time and attention of key management personnel. 14 Table of Contents ENTERPRISE APPLICATION SOLUTIONS The market for enterprise applications is uncertain and we are substantially dependent on our core product suite, QAD Enterprise Applications. A significant element of our strategy is the acceptance of QAD Enterprise Applications, including modules formerly marketed under the MFG/PRO brand. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from software license and maintenance revenue attributable to this product suite and from other complimentary products that are generally licensed only in conjunction with this suite. The failure of QAD Enterprise Applications and related products to continue to have market acceptance would adversely affect our business. In addition, we have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial resources developing and enhancing the various product suites that make up QAD Enterprise Applications. If QAD Enterprise Applications fails to maintain acceptance in the marketplace, it may not yield the return on investment we expect. We may not retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products. The ERP market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, as well as changing customer needs. Building new products requires significant development investment. A substantial portion of our research and development resources are devoted to product upgrades that address new technology and regulatory and maintenance requirements, thereby putting constraints on our resources available for new product development. In addition, part of our strategy is to acquire certain products to extend and enhance our product offering. The continued success of QAD Enterprise Applications will depend on our ability to successfully develop, enhance and globalize our offerings and distribute, service and support them internationally. We also face uncertainty when we develop or acquire new products because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products. QAD Enterprise Applications are often deployed in complex systems and may contain defects or security flaws. Because our products are often deployed in complex systems, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in such systems and may require long periods of time for such testing. Our customers may discover defects in our products, experience corruption of their data or encounter performance or scaling problems only after our software programs have been deployed. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors which may make it difficult to identify the source of problems, should they occur. Software and data security are becoming increasingly important because of regulatory restrictions on data privacy and the significant legal exposure and business disruption stemming from computer viruses and other unauthorized entry or use of computer systems. Product defects and security flaws could expose us to product liability and warranty claims and harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. ON DEMAND OFFERINGS Our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not properly manage the risks associated with our On Demand offerings. The risks that accompany our On Demand offerings differ from those of our other offerings and include the following: • The pricing and other terms of some of our On Demand agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. Early termination, increased costs or unanticipated delays could have an adverse affect on our profit margin and/or generate negative cash flow. • We rely on third-party hosting and other service providers. These services may not continue to be available at reasonable prices or on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss or interruption of these services could significantly increase our expenses and/or result in errors or a failure of our service which could harm our business. • We manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through our On Demand offerings. Accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to our reputation and future business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer confidential information. We may also face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance. • The laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of global resources. Changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services. • The market for enterprise cloud computing application services is not as mature as the market for traditional enterprise software, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend on the willingness of customers to increase their use of enterprise cloud computing application services in general, and for ERP applications in particular. Many customers have invested substantial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be unwilling to migrate to an enterprise cloud computing application service. Furthermore, some enterprises may be unwilling to use enterprise cloud computing application services because they have concerns regarding security risks, international transfers of data, government or other third-party access to data, and/or use of outsourced services providers. 15 Table of Contents · We have significantly redirected the focus of our sales force, management team and other personnel toward growing our On Demand business. This redirection of resources could potentially result in the loss of sales opportunities in our traditional license, maintenance and services businesses. If our On Demand business does not grow in accordance with our expectations and we are not able to cover the shortfall with other sales opportunities, then our business could be harmed. If any of these events were to occur, our business could be harmed. For example, customers may lose confidence in our On Demand offerings and be induced not to purchase our On Demand services, and/or our profit margin may be adversely affected, and/or we may incur liability. MARKET CONCENTRATION We are dependent upon achieving success in certain concentrated markets. We have made a strategic decision to concentrate our product development, as well as our sales and marketing efforts, in certain vertical manufacturing industry segments: automotive, consumer products, high technology, food and beverage, industrial products and life sciences. An important element of our strategy is the achievement of technological and market leadership recognition for our software products in these segments. The failure of our products to achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance in one or more of these segments could have an adverse effect on us. If any of these targeted industry segments experience a material slowdown or reduced growth, that could adversely affect the demand for our products. DEPENDENCE UPON THIRD-PARTY RELATIONSHIPS TO PROVIDE SALES, SERVICES AND MARKETING FUNCTIONS We are dependent upon the development and maintenance of sales, services and marketing channels. We sell and support our products through direct and indirect sales, services and support organizations throughout the world. We also maintain relationships with a number of consulting and systems integration organizations that we believe are important to our worldwide sales, marketing, service and support activities and to the implementation of our products. We believe this strategy allows for additional flexibility in ensuring our customers’ needs for services are met in a cost effective, timely and high quality manner. Our services providers generally do not receive fees for the sale of our software products unless they participate actively in a sale as a sales agent or a distributor. We are aware that these third-party relationships do not work exclusively with our products and in many instances these firms have similar, and often more established, relationships with our principal competitors. If these third-parties exclusively pursue products or technology other than QAD software products or technology, or if these third-parties reduce their support of QAD software products and technology or increase support for competitive products or technology, we could be adversely affected. ACQUISITIONS AND INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED BUSINESS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including the risks in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, realizing the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid, distraction of management from our ongoing businesses and potential disruptions associated with the sale of the acquired companies’ products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share, though the likelihood of voting dilution is limited by the ability of the Company to use low-vote Class A common stock. Furthermore, we may incur significant debt to pay for future acquisitions or investments. CREDIT RISK The global financial crisis resulted in a tightening in the credit markets. The recent global credit and banking crisis caused lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. Our current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or not pay us or delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. 16 Table of Contents We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new offerings or enhance our existing offerings, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Our operations are international in scope, exposing us to additional risk. We derive over half of our total revenue from sales outside the United States. A significant aspect of our strategy is to focus on developing business in emerging markets. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by a variety of factors affecting our foreign operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include currency fluctuations, economic, political or regulatory conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements. Additional risks inherent in international business activities generally include, among others: • Longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • Costs and difficulties of managing international operations and alliances; • Greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights; • Import or export requirements; • Natural disasters; • Changes in political or economic conditions; and • Changes in regulatory requirements or tax law. We may experience foreign currency gains and losses. We conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the United States dollar. Our revenues and operating results may be negatively affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, including the Euro, Australian dollar, British pound, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Canadian dollar, Brazilian real and the South Africa rand relative to the United States dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results. RISKS DUE TO BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS If a business interruption occurs, our business could be seriously harmed. A substantial portion of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We also employ third parties to supply certain infrastructure related to our On Demand offerings. Although the facilities, in which we host our computer systems, and those of our infrastructure suppliers, are designed to be fault tolerant and disaster recovery procedures are in place, the systems are susceptible to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, the effect of software viruses, terrorist acts, acts of war and similar events. In addition, an occurrence of any of these events may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. MARKET CONDITIONS Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and for which we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include: (i) the overall demand for enterprise application software and services; (ii) conditions in the high technology and manufacturing industry sectors; (iii) general economic and business conditions; and (iv) general political developments and conflicts. A generally weak global economy could delay and/or decrease customer purchases. In addition, ongoing conflicts and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The enterprise application market has experienced significant consolidation and increased competition. This consolidation has included numerous mergers and acquisitions and, as a result, some prospective buyers are reluctant to purchase applications that, due to a potential acquisition, could have a shortened lifespan. QAD’s controlled company status makes it highly unlikely that a hostile takeover of the company would occur. However, increased competition and consolidation in these markets is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and changes in market share, any of which could adversely affect us. Several of our potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition and greater technological and financial resources. THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK IS VOLATILE Our stock price could become more volatile and investments could lose value. The market price of our common stock and the number of shares traded each day has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • Shortfalls in our expected net revenue, earnings or key performance metrics; • Changes in recommendations or estimates by securities analysts; • The announcement of new products by us or our competitors; • Quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • A change in our dividend or stock repurchase activities; • Developments in our industry or changes in the market for technology stocks; • A change in our dividend or stock repurchase activities; • Changes in rules or regulations applicable to our business; and • Other factors, including economic instability and changes in political or market conditions. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to costly and time consuming litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, resulting in an adverse affect on our business. Our dual-class stock structure could adversely impact the market for our stock. The liquidity of the Company’s common stock may be adversely impacted by our dual-class structure because the total number of shares outstanding immediately after the Recapitalization was reduced by approximately half. In addition, there are fewer Class B shares than Class A shares and Class B shares may be less desirable to the public due to the 20% higher dividend on Class A shares. Additionally, the holding of lower voting Class A common stock may not be permitted by the investment policies of certain institutional investors or may be less attractive to managers of certain institutional investors. FINANCIAL REPORTING Failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our ability to meet our reporting requirements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. In addition, projections of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risks that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls, including any failure to implement, or difficulty in the implementation of, required new or improved controls, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. 18 Table of Contents We are required to delay revenue recognition into future periods for portions of our license fee activity. Our entire worldwide business is subject to United States generally accepted accounting principles, commonly referred to as “U.S. GAAP.” Under those rules, we are required to defer revenue recognition for license fees in certain situations. Factors that are considered in revenue recognition include, for example, whether we have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) for all undelivered elements in the arrangement, products under development to be delivered at a future date, other services included in the arrangement and payment terms with contingencies. We expect that we will continue to defer portions of our license fee activity because of these factors. The amount of license fees deferred may be significant and will vary each quarter depending on the mix of products sold in each market and geography, as well as the actual contract terms. Impairment of intangible assets may result in charges that negatively impact our results. Under generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), we review our goodwill annually and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND DEPENDENCE UPON KEY PERSONNEL We are controlled by our principal stockholder. As a result of a Recapitalization effective December 15, 2010, the Company established two classes of common stock. The holder of a share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to one vote on each matter presented to stockholders, whereas the holder of a share of Class A Common Stock has one-twentieth (1/20th) of one vote on each such matter. As of March 31, 2011, Karl Lopker and Pamela Lopker jointly and beneficially owned approximately 60% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock. They could increase their collective voting power by purchasing additional shares of Class B Common Stock. Currently they have sufficient voting control to determine the outcome of a stockholder vote concerning: · The election and removal of all members of our board of directors, who determine our management and policies; · The merger, consolidation or sale of the Company or all of its assets; and · All other matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of how our other stockholders vote their shares. This concentrated control limits the ability of our other stockholders to influence corporate matters. Karl Lopker’s and Pamela Lopker’s concentrated control could discourage others from initiating potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions and transactions could be pursued that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A and Class B common stock could be adversely affected. Provisions in the Company's charter documents or Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation contains certain other provisions that may have an "anti-takeover" effect. The Certificate of Incorporation contains authority for the Board to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Although the Company has no present intention to issue any such shares, the Company could issue such shares in a manner that deters or seeks to prevent an unsolicited bid for the Company. The Certificate of Incorporation also does not provide for cumulative voting and, accordingly, a significant minority stockholder could not necessarily elect any designee to the Board of Directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of the Company by imposing certain restrictions on various business combinations. As a result of these provisions in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law, stockholders of the Company may be deprived of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices and it would be more difficult to replace the directors and management of the Company. We are a “controlled company”. Karl Lopker and Pamela Lopker, as husband and wife, own a majority of our common stock and we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ rules. Therefore, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules of NASDAQ that would otherwise apply to us as a company listed on NASDAQ. 19 Table of Contents Specifically, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and we are not required to have nominating and compensation committees composed of independent directors. Should the interests of Karl Lopker and Pamela Lopker differ from those of other shareholders, the other shareholders may not be afforded the protections of having a majority of directors on the board who are independent from our principal shareholders or our management. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued service of a relatively small number of key technical and senior management personnel, including Chairman of the Board and President, Pamela Lopker, and Chief Executive Officer, Karl Lopker, neither of whom is bound by an employment agreement. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. The loss of any member of our key technical and senior management personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on us. We do not currently have key-person insurance covering any of our employees. Our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. We have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to changes in the economy, management and products as well as our financial results, acquisitions and other considerations. Past restructurings have caused a temporary disruption, which can reduce employee productivity. Such disruption could occur in connection with future restructurings and our results could be negatively affected. IMPACT OF REGULATION Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. We are subject to rules and regulations by various governing bodies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. If we fail to address and comply with these regulations and any subsequent changes, our business may be harmed. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 