Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a very high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information in our filings under the Exchange Act before making any investment decisions regarding our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know of or that we currently deem immaterial may also negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations We have withdrawn our 510(k) premarket notification for FDA clearance of our PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity, and we may not be able to submit a subsequent 510(k) premarket notification or to obtain clearance with respect to such application. On June 17, 2011, we submitted a premarket notification to the FDA seeking clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA to market our PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity. This new assay measures the activity levels of the Lp-PLA2 enzyme in the blood, while the PLAC Test currently marketed in the US utilizes an ELISA method that measures the concentration of the enzyme. The PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity is capable of running on automated, high throughput clinical chemistry analyzers unlike the current PLAC Test ELISA Kit. Future commercialization of an assay capable of running on automated, high throughput clinical chemistry analyzers may be important for the expansion of the PLAC Tests market and revenue growth. On October 24, 2011, we elected to withdraw this application following discussions with the FDA. We plan to develop a new submission. We are in the process of identifying completed clinical trials acceptable to the FDA from which blood samples of patient cohorts may be obtained and then tested to demonstrate the effectiveness of the PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity. There can be no guarantee that we will identify appropriate clinical trials, or that serum samples can be obtained from such trials to support retesting of PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity. We cannot assure you that the results of any such clinical trials will support the proposed clinical claims. There can be no guarantee that the FDA will clear the subsequent 510(k) submission on a timely basis, or at all. We are unable to predict the timing of retesting, submission date or receipt of clearance for the PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity, which may result in a loss of potential customers and would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to maintain or expand our business. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key employees and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We depend on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, along with other senior management, our research and development staff and a number of other key management, sales, support, technical and administrative services personnel. Competition for experienced, high-quality personnel exists, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, and we cannot assure you that we can continue to recruit and retain such personnel. Our failure to hire, train and retain qualified personnel would impair our ability to develop new products and manage our business effectively. 13 Table of Contents We are an early stage company and have engaged in only limited sales and marketing activities for our first products, the PLAC Tests. Our products may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and therefore never generate substantial revenue or profits for the Company. As is the case with all novel biomarkers, we must establish a market for our PLAC Tests and build that market through physician education and awareness programs. Publication in peer review journals of results from outcome studies using our products will be an important consideration in the adoption by physicians and in the coverage by insurers. Our ability to successfully commercialize the PLAC Tests and other diagnostic products will depend on many factors, including: • whether healthcare providers believe our PLAC Tests and any other diagnostic tests that we successfully develop provide sufficient incremental clinical utility; • whether we are able to demonstrate that treatment of individuals based on their Lp-PLA2 levels improves clinical outcomes in prospective clinical studies; and • whether health insurers, government health programs and other third-party payors will cover and pay for our diagnostic tests and the amounts they will reimburse. These and other factors may present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our products, and we may need to devote substantial time and money to surmount these obstacles, and the result might not be successful. Our business is characterized by a high degree of customer concentration. The loss of one or more of these customers or a decline in revenue from one or more of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Sales to a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue and accounts receivable. Our top four customers accounted for 68% and 92% of our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 69% and 81% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our dependence on and the identity of our key customers may vary from period to period as a result of competition among our customers, developments related to our products, and changes in individual customers’ purchases of our products. We may experience greater or lesser customer concentration in the future, depending on future commercial agreements and whether we are able to grow our revenue from the PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity. However, it is likely that our revenue and profitability will continue to be dependent on a very limited number of customers, and we may experience an even higher degree of customer concentration in the future. The loss of, material reduction in sales volume to, or significant adverse change in our relationship with any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue in any given period and may result in significant annual and quarterly revenue variations. Moreover, our largest customers exert greater influence over our product pricing, which has led to a decline in average sales price in recent quarters. Such downward pressure on our pricing has the potential to continue. In addition, we may be unable to collect related accounts receivables when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we expect that GlaxoSmithKline will provide the first results from its darapladib Phase 3 trial in 2013. Our PLAC Test sales could be affected by the outcome and the timing of the Phase 3 darapladib results. We rely on two manufacturers to supply materials for our PLAC Test ELISA Kit. If these manufacturers are unable to supply our materials in a timely manner, or at all, we may be unable to meet demand, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Prior to June 2012, we depended on a sole source third party manufacturer to produce our PLAC Test ELISA Kit. In June 2012, we qualified a second manufacturer for our PLAC Test ELISA Kit, and we intend to order regularly from both of these third-party manufacturers in the future. We rely on our third-party manufacturers to maintain their manufacturing facility in compliance with FDA and other federal, state and/or local regulations including health, safety and environmental standards. If they fail to maintain compliance with FDA or other critical regulations, they could be ordered to curtail operations, which would have a material adverse impact on 14 Table of Contents our business. In addition, increases in the prices we pay our manufacturer, or lapses in quality, such as failure to meet our specifications or the requirements of the Quality System Regulations, or QSR, and other regulatory requirements, could materially adversely affect our business. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after our products have been produced and distributed could result in significant consequences, including costly recall procedures and damage to our reputation. Our ability to replace the existing manufacturers may be difficult, because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. We also currently depend on certain key vendors and suppliers of materials, some of which are sole source or for whom an alternative could be difficult to replace in a timely manner, that are essential for the manufacture of our products. Any interruption in the supply of product, or the inability to obtain materials from alternate sources in a timely manner, could impair our ability to supply the PLAC Test ELISA Kit and to meet the demands of our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We manufacture our PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity on-site in South San Francisco, California and we could experience process, quality control and shipping problems due to the early stage of manufacturing. We have developed manufacturing of the PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity in house. We are dependent on the expertise of our personnel for this product. We could observe performance deviations that have not been apparent during development, including performance and stability of the PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity. The discovery of such performance deviations or of any manufacturing problems may adversely affect our sales in Europe. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our clinical diagnostic products or if they reduce reimbursement levels, our ability to sell our products could be harmed. We sell our products primarily through distributors and to laboratory customers, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Accordingly, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for diagnostic tests. Most of these third-party payors may deny coverage and reimbursement if they determine that a product was not medically necessary or not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, or was used for an unapproved indication. In the US, third-party payors generally require billing codes on claims for reimbursement that describe the services provided. For laboratory services, the American Medical Association (“AMA”) establishes most of the billing codes using a data code set called Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Each third-party payor generally develops payment amounts and coverage policies for their beneficiaries or members that ties to the CPT code established for the laboratory test and, therefore, coverage and reimbursement may differ by payor even if the same billing code is reported for claims filing purposes. For laboratory tests without a specific billing code, payors often review claims on a claim-by-claim basis and there are increased uncertainties as to coverage and eligibility for reimbursement. Currently, the tests performed by our assays are described by existing CPT codes, but we cannot guarantee that the CPT codes will not be revised or new CPT codes will not be established for our future assays. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. Lower-than-expected, or decreases in, reimbursement amounts for tests performed using our products may decrease amounts physicians and other practitioners are able to charge patients, which in turn may adversely affect the willingness of physicians and other practitioners to purchase our products at prices we target, or at all. If we are unable to sell our products at target prices, our revenue and gross margins will suffer and our business could be materially harmed. 15 Table of Contents Our business, in particular the growth of our business, is dependent on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize novel diagnostic products and services based on biomarkers. If we fail to develop and commercialize or enter into collaborations for new diagnostic products, we may be unable to execute our business plan. Our long-term ability to generate product revenue will depend in part on our ability to develop additional formats or versions of the PLAC Tests and other new diagnostic products. If internal efforts do not generate sufficient product candidates, we will need to identify third parties that wish to collaborate with us to develop new products and applications. Our ability to enter into third-party relationships will depend in part on our ability to negotiate acceptable license and related agreements. Even if we are successful in establishing collaborative arrangements, they may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidate or the generation of any sales or royalty revenues. In addition, rapid technological developments and innovations characterize the markets for our products and services. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to correctly identify emerging trends, enhance capabilities, and develop and manufacture new products quickly, in a cost-effective manner, and at competitive prices. The development of new and enhanced products is a complex and costly process. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce such new products and enhancements. If we fail to timely develop and introduce competitive new products or additional formats of our existing products, our business could be materially adversely affected. International expansion of our business exposes us to significant risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our business strategy incorporates international expansion, including establishing and maintaining direct sales and physician outreach and education capabilities outside of the US and expanding our relationship with distributors. Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • failure by us or our distributors to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for the use of our tests in various countries; • difficulties in managing foreign operations; • complexities associated with managing multiple payor reimbursement regimes or patient self-pay systems; • logistics and regulations associated with shipping, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays; • limits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to process tests locally; • financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • natural disasters, political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors’ activities that may fall within the purview of the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, its books and records provisions or its anti-bribery provisions. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international expansion and operations and, consequently, our revenues and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our dependence on distributors for foreign sales of our PLAC Test for Lp-PLA2 Activity could limit or hinder us from selling our tests in Europe and from realizing long-term international revenue growth. As of December 31, 2012, we had exclusive distribution agreements for our products in 25 countries, mostly in Europe, and we may enter into other similar arrangements in other countries in the future. Exclusive distribution arrangements limit our ability to directly, or indirectly through other distributors, address customers in those countries. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our PLAC Tests to the level of our expectations. We intend to grow our business internationally, and to do so we may need to attract additional distributors to expand the territories in which we sell our PLAC Tests for Lp-PLA2 Activity. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize long-term international revenue growth. The requirements of being a public company have required and will continue to require significant resources, increase our costs and occupy our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a company with public reporting responsibilities, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses related to, among other things: • preparing, filing and distributing periodic and current reports under the Exchange Act for a larger operating business and complying with other Exchange Act requirements applicable to public companies; • formalizing old and establishing new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading and disclosure controls and procedures; • involving and retaining to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and • establishing and maintaining an investor relations function, including the provision of certain information on our website. Compliance with these rules and regulations will cause us to incur significant legal and financial compliance costs. In addition, we are required to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with these requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, may damage our facilities. Our corporate and manufacturing facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area of California, in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. As a result, our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as fires, floods and similar events. Although we maintain general business insurance against fires and some general business interruptions, there can be no assurance that the scope or amount of coverage will be adequate in any particular case. Insurance specifically for earthquake risks is not available on commercially reasonable terms. Failure in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our business. Our ability to execute our business plan depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems, or IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, 17 Table of Contents including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Risks Relating to Government Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, and failure to comply with such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business and our medical device products, including our PLAC Tests, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations govern many aspects of our products and operations, and the products and operations of our suppliers and distributors, including premarket clearance and approval, design, development and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, safety and adverse event reporting, recalls, storage, advertising, promotion, sales and record keeping. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in, among other things, warning letters, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions, delays in clearance or approval of our products, withdrawal of cleared products, recalls, and other operating restrictions, all of which could cause us to incur significant expenses. Before we can market or sell a new product or a significant modification to an existing product in the US, we must obtain either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or approval of a pre-market approval application (“PMA”) from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the applicant must demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to obtain clearance from the FDA to market the proposed device. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing, and labeling data. The FDA can delay, limit, or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that our products are substantially equivalent to lawful predicate device or safe and effective for their intended uses; • the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and • changes in FDA clearance or approval policies or the adoption of new regulations may require additional data. Further, any modification we make to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, would require us to seek a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, approval of a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary for changes to 510(k) cleared devices. If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications or PMAs for modifications to our previously cleared products for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Even when a product reaches the market, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems, such as material deficiencies or defects in design, labeling, or manufacture, or a potential unacceptable risk to health, 18 Table of Contents with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including recall or withdrawal of the product from the market, and/or a requirement to submit a new 510(k) submission or PMA for the product in order to support continued marketing. We and our suppliers are subject to inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, and deficiencies identified during these audits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Once regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, the product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. For example, we are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with the QSR, which establishes the good manufacturing practices for medical devices, and Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in which one of our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that could cause death or serious injury. Although we believe that we have adequate processes in place to ensure compliance with these and other post-market requirements, the FDA or other regulatory bodies could disagree and take enforcement action, including issuing warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees or civil penalties, or imposing operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing, selling or exporting our products, among other sanctions, if it concludes that we are out of compliance with applicable regulations or if it concludes that our products pose an unacceptable risk to health or are otherwise deficient in design, labeling or manufacture. Further, the ability of our suppliers to supply critical components or materials and of our distributors to sell our products could be adversely affected if their operations are determined to be out of compliance. The FDA and other regulatory bodies could also require us to recall products if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. Such actions by the FDA and other regulatory bodies would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We are and will be subject to new regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Many national, regional, and local laws and regulations, including the recently-enacted healthcare reform legislation, have not been fully implemented by the regulatory authorities or adjudicated by the courts, and these provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make judgments with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators subsequently disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with these regulations, we could be subjected to various sanctions, including substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as product recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the sale of our products. Such sanctions could severely impair our reputation within the industry and any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in January 2011, the FDA announced twenty-five action items it intends to take in reforming the 510(k) premarket review program. The FDA issued its recommendations and proposed action items in response to concerns from both within and outside of the FDA about the 510(k) program. Although the FDA has not detailed the specific modifications or clarifications that the Agency intends to make to its guidance, policies, and regulations pertaining to the review and regulation of devices such as ours which seek and receive marketing clearance through the 510(k) process, the FDA’s announced action items signal that additional regulatory requirements are likely. For example, in July 2011, the FDA issued a draft guidance document intended to clarify when changes to a cleared 510(k) warrant submission of a new 510(k), which many observers believe will result in an increase in the number of 510(k)s submitted to the FDA. The FDA intends to issue a variety of additional draft guidance and regulations over the coming months and years which would, among other things, establish a Unique Device Identification System and clarify the FDA’s use and application of several key terms in the 510(k) review process. These reforms, when fully implemented, could impose additional regulatory requirements upon us, which could delay our ability to obtain new clearances, increase the cost of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current 510(k) clearances. Healthcare reform and its restrictions on coverage and reimbursement may adversely affect our profitability. Legislation both proposed and passed has had an impact on reimbursement levels for diagnostic services, including laboratory tests. For instance, in March 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection 19 Table of Contents and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which makes a number of substantial changes to the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among other things, the PPACA mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule of 1.75% for the years 2011 through 2015. A productivity adjustment also is made to the fee schedule payment amount. In addition, on February 22, 2012, President Obama signed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which, among other things, mandated an additional change in Medicare reimbursement for clinical laboratory services. This legislation requires a rebasing of the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule to effect a 2% reduction in payment rates otherwise determined for 2013, which in turn will serve as a base for 2014 and subsequent years. Further, with respect to the PPACA changes, the legislation establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board (“IPAB”) to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending. The IPAB has broad discretion to propose policies, which may have a negative impact on payment rates for services, including clinical laboratory services, beginning in 2016, and for hospital services beginning in 2020. In addition, the PPACA provides for an excise tax on medical devices that will potentially increase our costs if we are unable to pass the taxes on to our customers. There remain significant uncertainties regarding the measures that may be adopted as the PPACA is implemented. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. For example, on August 2, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve the targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. The full impact on our business of the PPACA and the potential impact of the sequestration contemplated if the US budget is not agreed upon is uncertain. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. We are subject to healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement, and our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. We are also subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; • the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and 20 Table of Contents • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Risks Relating to Liquidity Our Comerica Bank loan contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business, and our lender may accelerate repayment of amounts outstanding under certain circumstances. In September 2011, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Comerica Bank. This agreement was amended effective September 2012. This loan contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • Sell, transfer, lease or dispose of our assets; • Create, incur or assume additional indebtedness; • Encumber or permit liens on certain of our assets; • Pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions with respect to our common stock; • Make specified investments; • Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • Enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. If we breach any of these covenants, are unable to make a required payment of principal or interest, or experience a material adverse change to our business, it could result in a default under the loan. Additionally, we are required to achieve revenues equal to at least 80% of monthly projections approved by our Board of Directors and provided to the bank, and our failure to do so could result in a default under the loan. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the loan, the bank could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the bank could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, as collateral under the loan. We will need to raise additional capital to support our operations in the future. We will require additional funds to commercialize our products and develop new products. Our ability to fund our net losses and to conduct the required development activities related to any new product candidates will be significantly limited if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital. We will seek to raise funds through equity or debt offerings, bank facilities, or other sources of capital. Additional funding may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise any such additional funding. We are an early stage company with a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for at least the next few years, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception. Our accumulated deficit was $197.7 million at December 31, 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we incurred net losses of $2.8 million and $7.5 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur net losses for at least the next few years based on our 21 Table of Contents current plans to engage in new development activities to broaden or enhance our product pipeline. If we are unable to execute our commercialization strategy to achieve profitability, or if the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. Moreover, we are solely dependent on our product line of PLAC Tests. We expect that the PLAC Tests will account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We do not know if our PLAC Tests will be successful over the long-term and it is possible that the demand for the product may decline over time. We may never be able to commercialize the PLAC Activity Test in the US. Any decline in demand or failure of our PLAC Tests to penetrate current or new market significantly could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have liabilities for real estate leases in excess of what is necessary for our current business. We will incur these additional expenses until we are able to sublease a portion of our larger leased facility. We have a significant real estate lease for a facility of approximately 65,000 square feet with current monthly minimum required expenses of approximately $220,000. The term of the lease continues until December 31, 2016. Until such time that we are able to sublease a portion of the facility, we will incur liabilities for real estate leases significantly in excess of what is necessary for our current business. We may never be able to sublease a portion of the facility. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If the combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property proves inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be harmed and we may never be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect proprietary discoveries, technology, and diagnostic tests that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the US and other countries, so that we can seek to prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. Additionally, we have filed or have license rights to a number of patent applications that are in an early stage of prosecution, and we cannot make any assurances that any of the pending patent applications will result in patents being issued. In addition, due to technological changes that may affect our proposed products or judicial interpretation of the scope of our patents, our proposed products might not, now or in the future, be adequately covered by our patents. Moreover, the US Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, with central provisions effective as of March 2013, brings significant changes to the US patent system, which include a change to a “first to file” system from a “first to invent” system and changes to the procedures for challenging issued patents and disputing patent applications during the examination process, among other things. The effects of these changes on our patent portfolio and business have yet to be determined, as the US Patent and Trademark Office must still implement regulations relating to these changes and US courts have yet to address the new provisions, but in any event, these changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our patent rights. Furthermore, there have been several cases involving patents claiming genetic materials and information, and diagnostic products and methods based on genetic materials and information, that are pending in US courts or have been decided by the US Supreme Court that may impact our business. On March 20, 2012, in Mayo Collaborative Services, DBA Mayo Medical Laboratories, et al. v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., the US Supreme Court issued an opinion holding that the processes claimed by Prometheus’ patent were not patent eligible because these processes—determining the relationships between concentrations of certain metabolites in the blood and the likelihood that a thiopurine drug dosage will prove ineffective or cause harm—merely apply laws of nature and are not themselves patentable. Additionally, a suit brought by multiple plaintiffs, including the 22 Table of Contents American Civil Liberties Union, or ACLU, against Myriad Genetics and the USPTO, could also impact biotechnology patents. The Federal Circuit issued a written decision on July 29, 2011 that reversed the US District Court for the Southern District of New York’s ruling that Myriad’s composition claims to “isolated” DNA molecules cover unpatentable subject matter. However, the Federal Court affirmed the District Court’s decision that Myriad’s method claims directed to simply “comparing” or “analyzing” DNA sequences without a “transformation” step are not patentable. The US Supreme Court granted certiorari in the Myriad case, vacated the Federal Circuit decision and remanded the case back to the Federal Circuit for further consideration of patentability in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in Mayo v. Prometheus. Upon remand the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a written decision on August 16, 2012 maintaining that Myriad’s composition claims to “isolated” DNA molecules cover patentable subject matter and that Myriad’s method claims directed to “comparing” or “analyzing” DNA sequences without a “transformation” step are not patentable. Following appeal, the US Supreme Court has agreed to rehear arguments this year to examine the question of whether human genes are patentable in its rehearing of the Myriad case. It is unknown what the outcome and impact of the decision in this case will bring with respect to the Company’s patents. We license key intellectual property from GlaxoSmithKline and ICOS, and our contractual relationships have certain limitations. We have an exclusive license from GlaxoSmithKline (formerly SmithKlineBeecham plc) and a co-exclusive license from ICOS Corporation (“ICOS”), acquired by Eli Lilly and Company, to practice and commercialize technology covered by several issued and pending US patents and their foreign counterparts. The issued patents that relate to the Company’s current business have expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2016. Several of our collaboration agreements with GlaxoSmithKline and ICOS provide licenses to use intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future with GlaxoSmithKline or with other third parties that change licenses of valuable technology. Current licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain circumstances. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we could lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our current and future products. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies and product candidates could harm our competitive position. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We plan to continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. We cannot make assurances that our pending patent applications will issue as patents and, if they do, whether the scope of such claims will be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from utilizing our technologies, commercializing our discoveries or developing competing products. Any patents we currently hold, or obtain in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies, commercializing our discoveries, or developing competing technologies and products. Moreover, our issued patents have expiration dates beginning in 2013, which may impact our ability to maintain the competitive position of our products. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Third parties may challenge or invalidate our patents, or our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We have rights to patents and patent applications owned by GlaxoSmithKline, Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (“Human Genome Sciences”) and ICOS that provide important protection on the composition of matter and utility of our products and product candidates. We do not, however, directly control the prosecution and 23 Table of Contents maintenance of all of these patents. GlaxoSmithKline, Human Genome Sciences, and ICOS may not fulfill their obligations as licensors and may allow these patents to go abandoned or may not pursue meaningful claims for our products. Also, while the US Patent and Trademark Office has issued diagnostic patents covering utility or methods, we do not know whether or how courts will enforce these patents. If a court finds these types of inventions to be unpatentable or interprets them narrowly, the benefits of our patent strategy may not materialize. If any or all of these events occur, they could diminish the value of our intellectual property. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price is likely to be volatile. Currently, our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB marketplace. Stocks traded “over the counter” typically are subject to greater volatility than stocks traded on stock exchanges, such as the NASDAQ Stock Market, due to the fact that OTCQB marketplace trading volumes are generally significantly lower than those on stock exchanges. This lower volume may allow a relatively few number of stock trades to greatly affect the stock price, particularly where the trading price of the stock price is relatively low. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. Some of the many factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include, in no particular order: • Actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our products; • The progress and results of our product development efforts; • The outcome of legal actions to which we may become a party; • Our ability to commercialize the products, if any, that we are able to develop; • Changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; and • Restatements of our financial results and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls. The stock markets and the markets for medical diagnostics and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may not be able to sell when they desire due to insufficient buyer demand and may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. We are not currently listed on a national exchange and there can be no assurance we will ever be listed. As a result of our failure to make timely filings of financial statements, we were delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market in 2004. Currently, our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB marketplace under the symbol DDXS. We have not yet applied for our common stock to be listed on a national exchange, and we do not currently meet all of the requirements for listing or relisting on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We do not know when, if ever, our common stock will be listed on a national stock exchange. In addition, if we become eligible we cannot be certain that The NASDAQ Stock Market will approve our stock for relisting or that any other exchange will approve our stock for listing. In order to be eligible for relisting or listing, we must meet the initial listing criteria for The NASDAQ Stock Market or another national exchange, including a minimum per share price. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of the Company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, we may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock. Our bylaws also 24 Table of Contents provide that special stockholder meetings may be called only by our Board of Directors, Chairperson of the Board of Directors, or by our Chief Executive Officer or President, with the result that any third-party takeover not supported by the Board of Directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 