ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that you should be aware of, some of which are described below. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described in the following risk factors described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the risks, uncertainties and other factors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or product market share and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. We have incurred operating losses and may not achieve profitability. We have a history of losses with an accumulated deficit of $202.2 million as of December 31, 2008. In the future, we may not be able to achieve expected results, including any guidance or outlook we may provide from time to time; we may continue to incur losses and we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. Our quarterly and annual operating results will likely fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied greatly in the past and will likely vary greatly in the future depending upon a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our revenues, gross profit and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to, among other things: • business and economic conditions overall and in our markets; • the timing and amount of orders we receive from our customers that may be tied to budgetary cycles, seasonal demand, product plans or program roll-out schedules; • cancellations or delays of customer product orders, or the loss of a significant customer; • our ability to obtain an adequate supply of components on a timely basis; • poor quality in the supply of our components; • delays in the manufacture of our products; • the absence of significant backlog in our business; • our inventory levels; 15 Table of Contents • our customer and distributor inventory levels and product returns; • competition; • new product announcements or introductions; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, if at all; • our ability to successfully market and sell products into new geographic or market segments; • the sales volume, product configuration and mix of products that we sell; • technological changes in the markets for our products; • the rate of adoption of industry-wide standards; • reductions in the average selling prices that we are able to charge due to competition or other factors; • strategic acquisitions, sales and dispositions; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar; • the timing and amount of marketing and research and development expenditures; • loss of key personnel; and • costs related to events such as dispositions, organizational restructuring, headcount reductions, litigation or write-off of investments. Due to these and other factors, our revenues may not increase or even remain at their current levels. Because a majority of our operating expenses are fixed, a small variation in our revenues can cause significant variations in our operational results from quarter to quarter and our operating results may vary significantly in future periods. Therefore, our historical results may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. It is difficult to estimate operating results prior to the end of a quarter. We do not typically maintain a significant level of backlog. As a result, revenue in any quarter depends on contracts entered into or orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Historically, many of our customers have tended to make a significant portion of their purchases towards the end of the quarter, in part because they believe they are able to negotiate lower prices and more favorable terms. This trend makes predicting revenues difficult. The timing of closing larger orders increases the risk of quarter-to-quarter fluctuation in revenues. If orders forecasted for a specific group of customers for a particular quarter are not realized or revenues are not otherwise recognized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we may experience unexpected increases or decreases in demand for our products resulting from fluctuations in our customers’ budgets, purchasing patterns or deployment schedules. These occurrences are not always predictable and can have a significant impact on our results in the period in which they occur. We are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and additional delays could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our initial sales cycle for a new customer usually takes a minimum of six to nine months. During this sales cycle, we may expend substantial financial and managerial resources with no assurance that a sale will ultimately result. The length of a new customer’s sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control. These factors include the customer’s product and technical requirements and the level of competition we face for that customer’s business. Any delays in the sales cycle for new customers could delay or reduce our receipt of new revenue and could cause us to expend more resources to obtain new customer wins. If we are unsuccessful in managing sales cycles, our business could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our listing on both the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange exposes our stock price to additional risks of fluctuation. Our common stock is listed both on the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and we typically experience the majority of our trading on the Prime Standard. Because of this, factors that would not otherwise affect a stock traded solely on the NASDAQ Stock Market may cause our stock price to fluctuate. For example, European investors may react differently and more positively or negatively than investors in the United States to events such as acquisitions, dispositions, one-time charges and higher or lower than expected revenue or earnings announcements. A significant positive or negative reaction by investors in Europe to such events could cause our stock price to increase or decrease significantly. The European economy and market conditions in general, or downturns on the Prime Standard specifically, regardless of the NASDAQ Stock Market conditions, also could negatively impact our stock price. Our stock price has been and is likely to remain volatile. Over the past few years, the NASDAQ Stock Market and the Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Exchange have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of the stocks of technology companies. Volatility in our stock price on either or both exchanges may result from a number of factors, including, among others: • low volumes of trading activity in our stock, particular in the U.S.; • variations in our or our competitors’ financial and/or operational results; • the fluctuation in market value of comparable companies in any of our markets; • expected, perceived or announced relationships or transactions with third parties; • comments and forecasts by securities analysts; • trading patterns of our stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market or Prime Standard of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange; • the inclusion or removal of our stock from market indices, such as groups of technology stocks or other indices; • loss of key personnel; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements of dispositions, organizational restructuring, headcount reductions, litigation or write-off of investments; • litigation developments; and • general market downturns. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We have incurred and will incur significant expenses as a result of our proposed merger with Hirsch, which has reduced and will reduce the amount of capital available to fund our business. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to our proposed merger with Hirsch. These expenses include investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, and printing and other costs already incurred, and are expected to include a net cash outlay of approximately $10 million related to payment for Hirsch shares. There may also be unanticipated costs related to the proposed merger. As a result, the capital available to fund our activities has been and is expected to be further reduced. During 2009, if we are unsuccessful in securing sufficient sales of terminals for the German eHealth program, or in generating sufficient new revenues from the 17 Table of Contents contactless market, then we would likely continue to require cash to fund our operations. The remaining cash available to us might not be adequate in subsequent years. If our proposed merger with Hirsch occurs, we may not realize all of its anticipated benefits. To be successful after the proposed merger, SCM and Hirsch will need to combine and integrate the businesses and operations of our separate companies. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, after the closing of the proposed merger, our combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of both SCM and Hirsch. The integration process may divert the attention of our executive officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt either or both of our businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full benefits of the transaction expected by us and by Hirsch. We have not recently completed a merger or acquisition comparable in size or scope to this transaction. The possible failure of our combined company, after the proposed merger, to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating Hirsch’s operations with ours or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of our combined company and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the contemplated integration of our two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and loss of customer relationships, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies may include, among others: • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; • preserving important strategic and customer relationships; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • coordinating marketing functions; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and • integrating the cultures of SCM and Hirsch. In addition, even if the businesses and operations of SCM and Hirsch are integrated successfully, the combined company may not fully realize the expected benefits of the proposed merger, including sales or growth opportunities that were anticipated, within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, because the businesses of SCM and Hirsch differ, the results of operations of our combined company and the market price of our common stock after the closing of the proposed merger may be affected by factors different from those existing prior to the merger and may suffer as a result of the merger. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the businesses and operations of SCM with Hirsch will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the proposed merger. Our proposed merger with Hirsch may not occur. If we are unable to secure the approval of our stockholders to issue new securities related to our proposed merger with Hirsch, the proposed merger will not occur. Even if the proposed merger is approved by our stockholders and the shareholders of Hirsch, specified conditions must be satisfied or waived to complete the proposed merger. We cannot assure you that all of the conditions will be satisfied, and if the conditions are not satisfied or waived, the proposed merger will not occur or will be delayed, which would result in the loss of some or all of the expected benefits of the proposed merger. 18 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs or other damages associated with pending or future litigation related to the proposed merger of the Company and Hirsch, which may prevent or delay the closing of the proposed merger, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On March 18, 2009, Secure Keyboards, Ltd. (“Secure Keyboards”) and two of its general partners, Luis Villalobos and Howard B. Miller, filed a complaint against the Company, Felix Marx, our Chief Executive Officer, and Hirsch, in Los Angeles Superior Court. The complaint alleges multiple causes of action, including interference with contract, in connection with the proposed merger of SCM and Hirsch and a 1994 settlement agreement entered into among Secure Keyboards, Hirsch, and Secure Networks, Ltd (the “Settlement Agreement”). In addition, other potential lawsuits arising out of the proposed merger could seek to enjoin consummation of the merger or, in the alternative, to rescind the merger, as well as monetary damages. Even if such litigation is ultimately proven to lack merit, these actions could prevent or delay the closing of the merger. Any conclusion of such litigation in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of defending this litigation, even if resolved favorably, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of management and resources in general. If the Company and Secure Keyboards cannot resolve the litigation arising out of the proposed merger, and the general partners do not consent to become a party to and be bound by the letter of understanding or consent to the merger, a condition to the Company’s obligation to close the proposed merger will not have been satisfied. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, Hirsch is obligated to pay royalty payments in connection with the purchase of patented technology. In connection with the signing of the merger agreement with Hirsch, Robert Parsons and Lawrence Midland, as two of the four general partners of Secure Keyboards, delivered a letter of understanding to the Company, as amended and restated on January 30, 2009. Among other conditions, the obligation of the Company to complete the proposed merger is subject to the Company’s receipt or waiver of Secure Keyboards’ consent to the proposed merger and waiver of any rights to notice pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement (with such consent executed by each of its four respective general partners), and the consent of each of the other two general partners of Secure Keyboards to become a party to and be bound by the letter of understanding delivered to the Company by Robert Parsons and Lawrence Midland. As described above, on March 18, 2009, Secure Keyboards and Luis Villalobos and Howard B. Miller, the two general partners not currently a party to the letter of understanding, filed a complaint against the Company alleging, among other actions, interference with contract. The complaint alleges that the letter of understanding interfered with the Settlement Agreement in a manner which harmed Secure Keyboards’ interests. If the parties are not able to resolve the matter and the Company is not able to obtain Luis Villalobos and Howard B. Miller’s consent to the merger and to become a party to and be bound by the letter of understanding, a condition to the Company’s obligation to close the merger will not be satisfied and, if the Company decides not to waive this condition, the merger will not be consummated. If our proposed merger with Hirsch is not consummated, we may not be successful in our strategy to grow revenue and become profitable. One of the components of our growth strategy is to increase our revenues and operational scale through merger and acquisition activities. If the proposed merger with Hirsch is not consummated, then we may not be able to increase our revenues or operational scale as rapidly as we have planned, or at all. If we are unable to increase our revenues or operational scale, we may not be able to fully leverage our global infrastructure, or to pursue our other growth strategies effectively. We may elect to pursue mergers or acquisitions with other companies, and there is no guarantee that these efforts will be successful. Additionally, if the proposed merger with Hirsch is not consummated, then the financial and other resources that we have expended on the proposed merger may not be recoverable. The issuance of shares of SCM common stock to Hirsch shareholders in connection with the proposed merger will substantially reduce the percentage ownership of current SCM stockholders. If the proposed merger with Hirsch is completed, we expect that, based on shares of Hirsch common stock outstanding as of February 10, 2009, we will pay, in the aggregate, approximately $14.1 million in cash and issue approximately 9,411,470 shares of SCM common stock, and warrants to purchase an additional 4,705,735 shares of 19 Table of Contents SCM common stock, as consideration for the outstanding shares of Hirsch common stock. Following the proposed merger, current holders of Hirsch stock are expected to own approximately 37% of the shares of SCM common stock outstanding and current holders of SCM stock are expected to own approximately 63% of the shares of SCM common stock outstanding. SCM stockholders will continue to own their existing shares of SCM common stock, which will not be affected by the proposed merger, other than by the dilution resulting from the issuance of the merger consideration described above. Based on existing warrants to purchase shares of Hirsch common stock outstanding as of February 10, 2009 and excluding the additional warrants to be issued to Hirsch directors for service in 2008, we also expect to issue warrants to purchase approximately 164,618 shares of SCM common stock to the holders of Hirsch warrants to purchase Hirsch common stock, in connection with the proposed merger. If all of the existing options to purchase shares of Hirsch common stock outstanding as of February 10, 2009 were exercised, we would issue up to an additional 250,000 shares of SCM common stock and warrants to purchase 125,000 shares of SCM common stock to current holders of Hirsch options as merger consideration. The issuance of the shares of SCM common stock and warrants to purchase SCM common stock described above will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interests of current SCM stockholders in earnings, voting, and liquidation, book and market value. SCM common stock has historically traded at a very low volume. If we complete the proposed merger with Hirsch, the market price of SCM common stock could decline as a result of the large number of shares that would become eligible for sale in the future. The new shares of SCM common stock to be issued as merger consideration in connection with the proposed merger with Hirsch will become saleable beginning six months after the effective time of the proposed merger and the warrants to purchase shares of SCM common stock will be exercisable for two years following the third anniversary of the effective time of the proposed merger. Consequently, after such periods, a substantial number of additional shares of SCM common stock would be eligible for resale in the public market. Stockholders of SCM and former shareholders of Hirsch may not wish to continue to invest in the operations of the combined company after the proposed merger with SCM, or for other reasons, may wish to dispose of some or all of their interests in SCM. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of both the newly issued and the existing SCM common stock in the public market following the closing of the proposed merger could adversely affect the market price of our stock. If the proposed merger is completed, Hirsch’s current shareholders will own a large percentage of SCM common stock, and will have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval; the former Hirsch shareholders’ priorities for our business may be different from ours or our other stockholders. If the proposed merger is completed, the former Hirsch shareholders are expected to beneficially own approximately 37% of SCM’s common stock and the former SCM stockholders are expected to beneficially own approximately 63% of SCM’s common stock. Accordingly, the former Hirsch shareholders would be able to significantly influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the SCM stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of SCM’s assets or any other significant corporate transaction, such that such former shareholders of Hirsch could delay or prevent a change of control of SCM, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The interests of the former Hirsch shareholders may differ from the interests of other stockholders. We may not have uncovered all the risks associated with the proposed merger with Hirsch and a significant liability may be discovered. There may be risks that we failed to discover in the course of performing our due diligence investigations related to the proposed merger with Hirsch, which could result in significant liabilities. In connection with the acquisition of Hirsch, we expect that a subsidiary of SCM will assume all of Hirsch’s liabilities, both pre-existing and contingent, as a matter of law upon the exchange of all Hirsch shares of common stock. The merger agreement between us and Hirsch did not provide for our indemnification by the former Hirsch shareholders against any of Hirsch’s liabilities, should they arise or become known after the closing of the proposed merger. Furthermore, there is no escrow account or indemnity agreement protecting us in the event of any breach of Hirsch’s representations and warranties in the merger agreement. While we attempted to minimize risks by conducting due diligence that we deemed appropriate under the circumstances, we may not have identified all existing or potential risks. Any 20 Table of Contents significant liability that may arise may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects by requiring us to expend significant funds to satisfy such liability. The representations and warranties contained in the merger agreement between SCM and Hirsch were made solely for purposes of the contract among SCM, Hirsch, and the merger subsidiaries, and used as a tool for allocating risk among the parties, and therefore they may not accurately characterize the actual state of facts or conditions of SCM or Hirsch. The representations and warranties contained in the merger agreement between SCM and Hirsch were made solely for purposes of the contract among SCM, Hirsch, and the merger subsidiaries, and are used for the purpose of allocating risk among the parties, rather than establishing matters of facts. Because the representations and warranties may not accurately characterize the actual state of facts or conditions of SCM or Hirsch, no third party should rely upon the representations and warranties in the merger agreement as statements of factual information. The amount of merger consideration is fixed and not subject to adjustment based on the market price of our common stock. As a result, we may pay a higher price for the merger if our stock price increases. The merger consideration to be received by the holders of the shares of Hirsch common stock in the proposed merger includes shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. The merger agreement does not include an exchange ratio or adjustment mechanism based on the market price of our common stock for the determination of the amount of merger consideration that will be paid. Increases in the value of our common stock will result in a higher price being paid by us for Hirsch common stock and more value received by Hirsch shareholders in the proposed merger. Additionally, we will not have the right to terminate or renegotiate the merger agreement or to re-solicit proxies as a result of any increase in the value of our outstanding common stock. The financial projections for both our business and Hirsch’s business that were prepared in connection with our proposed merger with Hirsch are only estimates of future results and there is no assurance that actual results will not be different. In connection with the contemplated merger with Hirsch, we and Hirsch each created financial projections of our respective businesses. These financial projections are only estimates of possible future operating results and not guarantees of future performance. The future operating results of each company and of the combined company will be affected by numerous factors, including those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on 10-K. The actual operating results will likely differ from these financial projections. Provisions of the merger agreement regarding the payment of a termination fee by us to Hirsch could negatively affect our business operations if the merger agreement is terminated. Provisions of the merger agreement and ancillary agreements between SCM and Hirsch provide that, in the case that the merger agreement is terminated, in certain circumstances one party may be obligated to pay to the other a termination fee of $1.5 million, plus an amount equal to all out-of-pocket expenses incurred (excluding the cost of employee time). If we were to be required to pay the termination fee and reimbursement expenses to Hirsch, the results of our business operations could be adversely impacted. The date on which the proposed merger with Hirsch will close is uncertain. The date on which the proposed merger with Hirsch will close depends on the satisfaction of the closing conditions set forth in the merger agreement, or the waiver of those conditions by the parties thereto. While we and Hirsch expect to complete the proposed merger in the first half of 2009, the completion date of the proposed merger might be later than expected because of unforeseen events. Disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit. In the future, we may seek to raise additional funds. Our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or other general corporate and commercial purposes depends on our operating and financial performance and is also subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Recently, global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions. As a result, an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and other governments has been seen. As a result of such disruption, our 21 Table of Contents ability to raise capital may be severely restricted and the cost of raising capital through such markets or privately may increase significantly at a time when we would like, or need, to do so. Either of these events could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion or acquisition opportunities, make capital expenditures, or make another discretionary use of cash and could adversely impact our financial results. In any case, there can be no assurance that such funds, if available at all, can be obtained on terms reasonable to us. If we are able to obtain additional capital, the aggregate percentage ownership of our existing stockholders may be reduced. In addition, any new securities that we issue may have rights senior to those of our common stock. Disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact SCM’s customers and customer spending patterns and we could experience heightened credit risk to our accounts receivable. The current financial crisis may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, demand for our products could decrease and differ materially from our current expectations. Further, some of our customers may require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us, or possible insolvencies of our customers, could result in decreased customer demand, an impaired ability for us to collect on outstanding accounts receivable, significant delays in accounts receivable payments, and significant write-offs of accounts receivable, each of which could adversely impact our financial results. Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk in our accounts receivable, and this risk is heightened in times of economic weakness. We distribute our products both through third-party resellers and directly to certain customers. A majority of our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. We may not be able to monitor and limit our exposure to credit risk on our trade and non-trade receivables, we may not be effective in limiting credit risk and avoiding losses. Disruption in the global financial markets may adversely impact our suppliers. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components or products from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, each of which would adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. A significant portion of our sales typically comes from a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers or variability in the timing of orders could negatively impact our operating results. Our products are generally targeted at OEM customers in the consumer electronics, digital photo processing and computer industries, as well as the government sector, the financial sector and corporate enterprises. Sales to a relatively small number of customers historically have accounted for a significant percentage of our revenues. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for approximately 58% of revenue in 2008, 61% of revenue in 2007 and 53% of revenue in 2006. We expect that sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our total sales for the foreseeable future, particularly in our Digital Media and Connectivity business, where approximately two-thirds of our business has typically been generated by two or three customers. The loss of a customer or reduction of orders from a significant customer, including those due to product performance issues, changes in customer buying patterns, or market, economic or competitive conditions in our market segments, could significantly lower our revenues in any period and would increase our dependence on a smaller group of our remaining customers. For example, in the third quarter of 2008, sales of our digital media readers were significantly lower than in previous quarters due to reduced orders from one major customer in this business. Variations in the timing or patterns of customer orders could also increase our dependence on other customers in any particular period. Dependence on a small number of customers and variations in order levels period to period could result in decreased revenues, decreased margins, and/or inventory or receivables write-offs and otherwise harm our business and operating results. 22 Table of Contents Sales of our products depend on the development of emerging applications in our target markets and on diversifying and expanding our customer base in new markets and geographic regions, and with new products. We sell our products primarily to address emerging applications that have not yet reached a stage of mass adoption or deployment. For example, we sell our smart card readers for use in various smart card-based security programs in Europe, such as electronic driver’s licenses, national IDs and e-passports, which are applications that are not yet widely implemented. In recent months, we also have focused on expanding sales of existing product lines into new geographic markets and diversifying and expanding our customer base. For example, we have recently added sales resources to target authentication programs in the government and enterprise sectors in Asia, and have begun to target the photo kiosk markets in Europe and Asia. We also have initiated business development activities aimed at penetrating the worldwide financial services and enterprise markets with new contactless reader products. We introduced the first of these products in October 2008. Because the markets for our products are still emerging, demand for our products is subject to variability from period to period. There is no assurance that demand will become more predictable as additional smart card programs demonstrate success. If demand for products to enable smart card-based security applications does not develop further and grow sufficiently, our revenue and gross profit margins could decline or fail to grow. We cannot predict the future growth rate, if any, or size or composition of the market for any of our products. Our target markets have not consistently grown or developed as quickly as we have expected, and we have experienced delays in the development of new products designed to take advantage of new market opportunities. Since new target markets are still evolving, it is difficult to assess the competitive environment or the size of the market that may develop. The demand and market acceptance for our products, as is common for new technologies, is subject to high levels of uncertainty and risk and may be influenced by various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • general economic conditions, for example the economic uncertainty caused by the current global economic recession; • our ability to demonstrate to our potential customers and partners the value and benefits of new products; • the ability of our competitors to develop and market competitive solutions for emerging applications in our target markets and our ability to win business in advance of and against such competition; • the adoption and/or continuation of industry or government regulations or policies requiring the use of products such as our smart card readers; • the timing of large scale security programs involving smart cards and related technology by governments, banks and enterprises; • the ability of financial institutions, corporate enterprises, the U.S. government and other governments to agree on industry specifications and to develop and deploy smart card-based applications that will drive demand for smart card readers such as ours; and • the ability of high capacity flash memory cards to drive demand for digital media readers, such as ours, that enable rapid transfer of large amounts of data, for example digital photographs. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon sales to government programs, which are impacted by uncertainty of timelines and budgetary allocations, as well as by delays in developing standards for information technology (“IT”) projects and in coordinating all aspects of large smart card-based security programs. Large government programs are a primary target for our Secure Authentication business, as smart card technology is increasingly used to enable applications ranging from paying taxes online, to citizen identification, to receiving health care. Historically, we have sold a significant proportion of our Secure Authentication products to the U.S. government for PC and network access by military and federal employees, and these sales have been an important component of our overall revenue. In recent periods, we have experienced a significant decrease in sales of our external smart card readers to the U.S. government, primarily due to weaker demand in this market as a result of ongoing project and budget delays and a movement by the U.S. government towards purchasing computer equipment with embedded reader capabilities. We continue to believe that we remain a leading supplier of smart card reader technology to the U.S. government market and that we are not losing share to competitors. However, lower overall market demand and the replacement of external smart card reader sales with sales of lower-priced 23 Table of Contents interface chips for embedded readers have resulted in reduced revenue from the U.S. government sector, which we believe is not likely to consistently return to previous levels. We anticipate that a significant portion of our future revenues will come from government programs outside the U.S., such as national identity, e-government, e-health and others applications. We currently supply smart card readers for various government programs in Europe and Asia and are actively targeting additional programs in these areas as well as in Latin America. We also have spent significant resources developing a range of e-health smart card terminals for the German government’s electronic health card program. However, the timing of government smart card programs is not always certain and delays in program implementation are common. For example, while the German government has stated that it plans to distribute new electronic health cards to its citizens beginning in early 2009, and to put in place a corresponding network and card reader infrastructure during 2009, there have already been delays in this program and the actual timing of equipment and card deployments in the German e-health program remain uncertain. The continued delay of government projects for any reason could negatively impact our sales. Some of our sales are made through distributors, and the loss of such distributors could result in decreased revenue. We currently use distributors to sell some of our products, primarily into markets or customers where the distributor may have closer relationships or greater access than we do. Distribution arrangements are intended to benefit both us and the distributor, and may be long- or short-term relationships, depending on market conditions, competition in the marketplace and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective distribution channels, there could be a reduction in the amount of product we are able to sell, and our revenues could decrease. Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue and result in costly litigation or liability. Products such as our smart card readers and digital media readers may contain defects for many reasons, including defective design or manufacture, defective material or software interoperability issues. Often, these defects are not detected until after the products have been shipped. If any of our products contain defects or perceived defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems or perceived problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly, we could lose or experience a delay in market acceptance of the affected product or products and we might be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales or our ability to recognize revenue for products shipped. In the event of an actual or perceived defect or other problem, we may need to invest significant capital, technical, managerial and other resources to investigate and correct the potential defect or problem and potentially divert these resources from other development efforts. If we are unable to provide a solution to the potential defect or problem that is acceptable to our customers, we may be required to incur substantial product recall, repair and replacement and even litigation costs. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We provide warranties on certain product sales, which range from twelve to twenty-four months, and allowances for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such allowances requires us to make estimates of product return rates and expected costs to repair or to replace the products under warranty. We currently establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for each product line combined with liability estimates based on the prior twelve months’ sales activities. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to recognize additional cost of sales may be required in future periods. In addition, because our customers rely on our Secure Authentication products to prevent unauthorized access to PCs, networks or facilities, a malfunction of or design defect in our products (or even a perceived defect) could result in legal or warranty claims against us for damages resulting from security breaches. If such claims are adversely decided against us, the potential liability could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, the publicity associated with any such claim, whether or not decided against us, could adversely affect our reputation. In addition, a well-publicized security breach involving smart card-based or other security systems could adversely affect the market’s perception of products like ours in general, or our products in particular, regardless of whether the breach is actual or attributable to our products. Any of the foregoing events could cause demand for our products to decline, which would cause our business and operating results to suffer. 24 Table of Contents If we do not accurately anticipate the correct mix of products that will be sold, we may be required to record charges related to excess inventories. Due to the unpredictable nature of the demand for our products, we are required to place orders with our suppliers for components, finished products and services in advance of actual customer commitments to purchase these products. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could result in costly excess production or inventories. In order to minimize the negative financial impact of excess production, we may be required to significantly reduce the sales price of the product to increase demand, which in turn could result in a reduction in the value of the original inventory purchase. If we were to determine that we could not utilize or sell this inventory, we may be required to write down its value, which we have done in the past. Writing down inventory or reducing product prices could adversely impact our cost of revenues and financial condition. Our business could suffer if our third-party manufacturers cannot meet production requirements. Our products are manufactured outside the United States by contract manufacturers. Our reliance on foreign manufacturing poses a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing; • currency fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • export controls; • political and economic instability; • lack of control over the manufacturing process and ultimately over the quality of our products; • late delivery of our products, whether because of limited access to our product components, transportation delays and interruptions, difficulties in staffing, or disruptions such as natural disasters; • capacity limitations of our manufacturers, particularly in the context of new large contracts for our products, whether because our manufacturers lack the required capacity or are unwilling to produce the quantities we desire; and • obsolescence of our hardware products at the end of the manufacturing cycle. The use of contract manufacturing requires us to exercise strong planning and management in order to ensure that our products are manufactured on schedule, to correct specifications and to a high standard of quality. If any of our contract manufacturers cannot meet our production requirements, we may be required to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers. We may be unable to identify or qualify new contract manufacturers in a timely manner or at all or with reasonable terms and these new manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of our products from our current or alternative manufacturers would materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, if we are not successful at managing the contract manufacturing process, the quality of our products could be jeopardized or inventories could be too low or too high, which could result in damage to our reputation with our customers and in the marketplace, as well as possible write-offs of excess inventory. We have a limited number of suppliers of key components, and may experience difficulties in obtaining components for which there is significant demand. We rely upon a limited number of suppliers for some key components of our products. For example, we currently utilize the foundry services of external suppliers to produce our ASICs for smart cards readers, and we use chips and antenna components from third-party suppliers in our contactless smart card readers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers may expose us to various risks including, without limitation, an inadequate supply of components, price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality. In addition, some of the basic components we use in our products, such as digital flash media, may at any time be in great demand. This could result in components not being available to us in a timely manner or at all, particularly if larger companies have ordered more significant volumes of those components, or in higher prices being charged for components. Disruption or 25 Table of Contents termination of the supply of components or software used in our products could delay shipments of these products. These delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with technological change and meet the needs of our target markets and customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the need to meet market requirements and to differentiate our products through technological enhancements, and in some cases, price. Our customers’ needs change, new technologies are introduced into the market, and industry standards are still evolving. As a result, product life cycles are often short and difficult to predict, and frequently we must develop new products quickly in order to remain competitive in light of new market requirements. Rapid changes in technology, or the adoption of new industry standards, could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If a product is deemed to be obsolete or unmarketable, then we might have to reduce revenue expectations or write down inventories for that product. We may also lose market share. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products with clearly differentiated benefits that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and that keep pace with technological developments, new competitive product offerings and emerging industry standards. We must be able to demonstrate that our products have features or functions that are clearly differentiated from existing or anticipated competitive offerings, or we may be unsuccessful in selling these products. In addition, in cases where we are selected to supply products based on features or capabilities that are still under development, we must be able to complete our product design and delivery process on a timely basis, or risk losing current and any future revenue from those products. In developing our products, we must collaborate closely with our customers, suppliers and other strategic partners to ensure that critical development, marketing and distribution projects proceed in a coordinated manner. Also, this collaboration is important because these relationships increase our exposure to information necessary to anticipate trends and plan product development. If any of our current relationships terminate or otherwise deteriorate, or if we are unable to enter into future alliances that provide us with comparable insight into market trends, our product development and marketing efforts may be adversely affected, and we could lose sales. We expect that our product development efforts will continue to require substantial investments and we may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. In some cases, we depend upon partners who provide one or more components of the overall solution for a customer in conjunction with our products. If our partners do not adapt their products and technologies to new market or distribution requirements, or if their products do not work well, then we may not be able to sell our products into certain markets. Because we operate in markets for which industry-wide standards have not yet been fully set, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. If any of the standards supported by us do not achieve or sustain market acceptance, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our products are competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products include: • the extent to which products must support existing industry standards and provide interoperability; • the extent to which standards are widely adopted and product interoperability is required within industry segments; • the extent to which products are differentiated based on technical features, quality and reliability, ease of use, strength of distribution channels and price; and • the ability of suppliers to develop new products quickly to satisfy new market and customer requirements. We currently experience competition from a number of companies in each of our target market segments and we believe that competition in our markets is likely to intensify as a result of anticipated increased demand for secure digital access products. We may not be successful in competing against offerings from other companies and could lose business as a result. 26 Table of Contents We also experience indirect competition from certain of our customers who currently offer alternative products or are expected to introduce competitive products in the future. For example, we sell our products to many OEMs who incorporate our products into their offerings or who resell our products in order to provide a more complete solution to their customers. If our OEM customers develop their own products to replace ours, this would result in a loss of sales to those customers, as well as increased competition for our products in the marketplace. In addition, these OEM customers could cancel outstanding orders for our products, which could cause us to write down inventory already designated for those customers. We may in the future face competition from these and other parties that develop digital data security products based upon approaches similar to or different from those employed by us. In addition, the market for digital information security and access control products may ultimately be dominated by approaches other than the approach marketed by us. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower end user price. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Therefore, new competitors, or alliances among competitors, may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We may choose to take back unsold inventory from our customers. If demand is less than anticipated, customers may ask that we accept returned products that they do not believe they can sell. With the exception of our retail CHIPDRIVE products, we do not have a policy relating to product returns. However, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relations with our customers. If we were to accept product returns, we may be required to take additional inventory reserves to reflect the decreased market value of slow-selling returned inventory, even if the products are in good working order. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters may adversely affect our future results. A number of factors may impact our tax position, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any of these factors could make it more difficult for us to project or achieve expected tax results. An increase or decrease in our tax liabilities due to these or other factors could adversely affect our financial results in future periods. Large stock holdings outside the U.S. make it difficult for us to achieve quorum at stockholder meetings and this could restrict, delay or prevent our ability to implement future corporate actions, as well as have other effects, such as the delisting of our stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market. To achieve a quorum at a regular or special stockholder meeting, at least one-third of all shares of our stock entitled to vote must be present at such a meeting in person or by proxy. In addition, certain actions, including the approval of a significant transaction, may require approval of a majority of the total number of SCM’s shares then 27 Table of Contents outstanding. As of February 11, 2009, the record date for our Special Meeting of Stockholders, approximately 50% of our shares outstanding were held by retail stockholders in Germany, through German banks and brokers. Securities regulations and business customs in Germany result in very few German banks and brokers providing our proxy materials to our stockholders in Germany and in very few German stockholders voting their shares even when they do receive such materials. In addition, the absence of a routine “broker non-vote” in Germany typically requires the stockholder to return the proxy card to us before the votes it represents can be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum. As a result, it is often difficult and costly for us, and requires considerable management resources, to achieve a quorum at annual and special meetings of our stockholders. If we are unable to achieve a quorum at a future annual or special meeting of our stockholders, corporate actions requiring stockholder approval could be restricted, delayed or even prevented. These include, but are not limited to, actions and transactions that may be of benefit to our stockholders, part of our strategic plan or necessary for our corporate governance, such as our proposed merger with Hirsch and related actions and corporate mergers, acquisitions, dispositions, sales or reorganizations, financings, stock incentive plans or the election of directors. Even if we are able to achieve a quorum for a particular meeting, some of these actions or transactions require the approval of a majority of the total number of our shares then outstanding, and we may not be successful in obtaining such approval. The failure to hold an annual meeting of stockholders may also result in our being out of compliance with Delaware law and the qualitative listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market, each of which requires us to hold an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our inability to obtain a quorum at any such meeting may not be an adequate excuse for such failure. Lack of compliance with the qualitative listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market could result in the delisting of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Either of these events would divert management’s attention from our operations and would likely be costly and could also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. One of our directors is a partner in the largest shareholder of SCM, and both of them have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and shareholder approval, respectively; the shareholder’s priorities for our business may be different from ours or our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, Lincoln Vale European Partners (“Lincoln Vale”) holds nearly 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Dr. Hans Liebler, one of our directors, is a partner of Lincoln Vale and may also be deemed to beneficially own, either directly or indirectly through limited partnerships, the shares invested by Lincoln Vale in SCM. Accordingly, Dr. Liebler and/or Lincoln Vale could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring board and shareholder approval, respectively, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. In addition, Dr. Liebler and/or Lincoln Vale could delay or prevent a change of control of SCM, even if such a change of control would benefit our other shareholders. We cannot assure you that Lincoln Vale’s objectives are aligned with those of the other shareholders. We have global operations, which require significant financial, managerial and administrative resources. Our business model includes the management of separate product lines that address disparate market opportunities that are geographically dispersed. While there is some shared technology across our products, each product line requires significant research and development effort to address the evolving needs of our customers and markets. To support our development and sales efforts, we maintain company offices and business operations in several locations around the world, including Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan and the United States. We also must manage contract manufacturers in several different countries, including China and Singapore. Managing our various development, sales, administrative and manufacturing operations places a significant burden on our financial systems and has contributed to a level of operational spending that is disproportionately high compared to our current revenue levels. 28 Table of Contents Operating in diverse geographic locations also imposes significant burdens on our managerial resources. In particular, our management must: • divert a significant amount of time and energy to manage employees and contractors from diverse cultural backgrounds and who speak different languages; • travel between our different company offices; • maintain sufficient internal financial controls in multiple geographic locations that may have different control environments; • manage different product lines for different markets; • manage our supply and distribution channels across different countries and business practices; and • coordinate these efforts to produce an integrated business effort, focus and vision. Any failure to effectively manage our operations globally could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United States. Economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. In addition to our corporate headquarters being located in Germany, we conduct a substantial portion of our business in Europe and Asia. Approximately 57% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, 49% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 57% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006 was derived from customers located outside the United States. Because a significant number of our principal customers are located in other countries, we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, a significant portion of our sales and operations may continue to be subject to risks associated with foreign operations, any of which could impact our sales and/or our operational performance. These risks include, but are not limited to: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions and stability, particularly in emerging markets; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • export controls; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • difficulty in managing widespread sales and manufacturing operations; and • less effective protection of intellectual property. Fluctuations in the valuation of foreign currencies could impact costs and/or revenues we disclose in U.S. dollars, and could result in foreign currency losses. A significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies, principally the euro. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will continue to cause currency exchange gains and losses. If a significant portion of operating expenses are incurred in a foreign currency such as the euro, and revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, exchange rate fluctuations might have a positive or negative net financial impact on these transactions, depending on whether the U.S. dollar devalues or revalues compared to the euro. For example, excluding a one-time severance payment made to our former chief executive officer in the second quarter of 2007, our general and administrative expenses in the first half of 2008 were higher than in the same period of the previous year, primarily due to the devaluation of the dollar as compared with the euro. In addition, the valuation of current 29 Table of Contents assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency can result in currency exchange gains and losses. For example when an SCM subsidiary has the euro as the functional currency, and this subsidiary has a receivable in U.S. dollars, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the euro of 10% would result in a foreign exchange loss of the reporting entity of 10% of the value of the underlying U.S. dollar receivable. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future quarterly and annual operating results. The effect of currency exchange rate changes may increase or decrease our costs and/or revenues in any given quarter, and we may experience currency losses in the future. To date, we have not adopted a hedging program to protect our company against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. Our key personnel and directors are critical to our business, and such key personnel may not remain with us in the future. We depend on the continued employment of our senior executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. If any of our key personnel were to leave and not be replaced with sufficiently qualified and experienced personnel, our business could be adversely affected. In particular, our current strategy to penetrate the market for contactless payment solutions is heavily dependent on the vision, leadership and experience of our chief executive officer, Felix Marx. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. However, competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to retain our key technical and management employees or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future. Likewise, as a small, dual-traded company, we are challenged to identify, attract and retain experienced professionals with diverse skills and backgrounds who are qualified and willing to serve on our Board of Directors. The increased burden of regulatory compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 creates additional liability and exposure for directors and financial losses in our business and lack of growth in our stock price make it difficult for us to offer attractive director compensation packages. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified board members, our ability to practice a high level of corporate governance could be impaired. We are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and additional delays could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our initial sales cycle for a new customer usually takes a minimum of six to nine months. During this sales cycle, we may expend substantial financial and managerial resources with no assurance that a sale will ultimately result. The length of a new customer’s sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control. These factors include the customer’s product and technical requirements and the level of competition we face for that customer’s business. Any delays in the sales cycle for new customers could delay or reduce our receipt of new revenue and could cause us to expend more resources to obtain new customer wins. If we are unsuccessful in managing sales cycles, our business could be adversely affected. We face risks associated with strategic transactions. A component of our ongoing business strategy is to seek to buy businesses, products and technologies that complement or augment our existing businesses, products and technologies. We have in the past acquired or made, and from time to time in the future may acquire or make, investments in companies, products and technologies that we believe are complementary to our existing businesses, products and technologies. For example, on October 1, 2008, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with TranZfinity, Inc., a privately held entity, pursuant to which we purchased 33.7% of the outstanding shares of TranZfinity common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $2.5 million. The investment is inherently high risk as the market for technologies or products manufactured by the entity in its early stage at the time of the investment by us and such market may never be significant. Any acquisition could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, the use of our limited cash balances or potentially dilutive stock offerings to fund such acquisitions; costs of any necessary financing, which 30 Table of Contents may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; accounting charges we might incur in connection with such acquisitions; the difficulty and expense of integrating personnel, technologies, customer, supplier and distributor relationships, marketing efforts and facilities acquired through acquisitions; integrating internal controls over financial reporting; discovering and correcting deficiencies in internal controls and other regulatory compliance, data adequacy and integrity, product quality and product liabilities; diversion of our management resources; failure to realize anticipated benefits; costly fees for legal and transaction-related services; and the unanticipated assumption of liabilities. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful with any such acquisition. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also lead to substantial increases in non-current assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy also contemplates divesting portions of our business from time to time, if and when we believe we would be able to realize greater value for our stockholders in so doing. We have in the past sold, and may from time to time in the future sell, all or one or more portions of our business. Any divestiture or disposition could expose us to significant risks, including, without limitation, costly fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; loss of key personnel; and reduction in revenue. Further, we may be required to retain or indemnify the buyer against certain liabilities and obligations in connection with any such divestiture or disposition and we may also become subject to third-party claims arising out of such divestiture or disposition. In addition, we may not achieve the expected price in a divestiture transaction. Failure to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to risks of intellectual property infringement by third parties. Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, which afford only limited protection. We may not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology through patents, it is possible that no new patents will be issued, that our proprietary products or technologies are not patentable or that any issued patent will fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. There has been a great deal of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights, and from time to time we may be required to use litigation to protect our proprietary technology. This may result in our incurring substantial costs and we may not be successful in any such litigation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to use our proprietary information and software without authorization. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Because many of our products are sold and a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, our exposure to intellectual property risks may be higher. Our means of protecting our proprietary and intellectual property rights may not be adequate. There is a risk that our competitors will independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or design around patents or other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property or our products or technologies are duplicated by others, our business could be harmed. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Standards Accounting Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting rules and policies. A change in those rules or policies could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Any changes in accounting rules or policies in the future may result in significant accounting charges. 31 Table of Contents We face costs and risks associated with maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting, and if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us could be materially affected. Under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated, and expect to continue to dedicate, significant management, financial and other resources in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The process of maintaining and evaluating the effectiveness of these controls is expensive, time-consuming and requires significant attention from our management and staff. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time from other activities. We have found a material weakness in our internal controls in the past and we cannot be certain in the future that we will be able to report that our controls are without material weakness or to complete our evaluation of those controls in a timely fashion. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to rely on the integrity of our financial results, which could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results and investigation by regulatory authorities. If we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. In addition, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of control can provide absolute assurance, that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Any failure of our internal control systems to be effective could adversely affect our business. We face risks from litigation. In addition to the litigation described above, from time to time, we may be subject to litigation, which could include, among other things, claims regarding infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, product defects, employment-related claims, and claims related to acquisitions, dispositions or restructurings. Any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, require us to accept returns of products and to write off inventory, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. We expect the likelihood of intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our markets grows and as we increasingly incorporate third-party technology into our products. As a result of infringement claims, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third-party or redesign our products. Licenses may not be offered when we need them or on acceptable terms. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments or we may be required to license some of our intellectual property to others in return for such licenses. If we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary for us or our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our allegedly infringing products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We may also be unsuccessful in redesigning our products. Our suppliers and customers may be subject to infringement claims based on intellectual property included in our products. We have historically agreed to indemnify our suppliers and customers for patent infringement claims relating to our products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorney’s fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a 32 Table of Contents result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third-party claims for patent infringement. Provisions in our agreements, charter documents, Delaware law and our rights plan may delay or prevent the acquisition of SCM by another company, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or enter into a material transaction with us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The triggering and exercise of the rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon redemption of the rights. While the rights are not intended to prevent a takeover of our company, they may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of us that was deemed to be undesirable by our Board of Directors. These provisions will apply even if the offer were to be considered adequate by some of our stockholders. Because these provisions may be deemed to discourage a change of control, they may delay or prevent the acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of our common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our stock, and future sales of shares of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our stock price. From time to time, in the future we may issue previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 23, 2009, 15,743,515 shares of common stock were outstanding. In connection with the proposed merger with Hirsch, we expect to issue approximately 9,411,470 shares of SCM common stock, and warrants to purchase an additional 4,705,735 shares of SCM common stock, as consideration for the outstanding shares of Hirsch common stock. In 2007, our Board of Directors and our stockholders approved our 2007 stock option plan, under which options to purchase 1.5 million shares of our common stock may be granted. As of December 31, 2008, an aggregate of approximately 3.0 million shares of common stock was reserved for future issuance under our stock option plans, of which 1.8 million shares were subject to outstanding options. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements, or future public offerings of our securities for capital raising or for other business purposes. If we issue additional securities, the aggregate percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced. In addition, any new securities that we issue may have rights senior to those of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 