Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to various risks. Management balances the Company’s strategic goals, including revenue and profitability objectives, with the associated risks. This section highlights specific risks that could affect the Company and its business. Although current key factors are discussed, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and the Company cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. This listing should not be considered all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, the Company may not be able to conduct business as currently planned and financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline in future periods. Recent negative developments in the financial services sector and U.S. and global credit markets may negatively impact operations and results. The U.S. economy was in recession from December 2007 through June 2009. Business activity across a broad range of industries and regions in the U. S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also played a role in the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Company offers, is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the Commonwealth of Virginia and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2010, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. While economic conditions in the Commonwealth of Virginia, the United States and worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to credit risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the Commonwealth of Virginia and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil monetary penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 56% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate mortgage loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large individual balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate to absorb estimated incurred losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering current general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control and these losses may cause the loan loss provision to vary widely from recent levels. Although management believes the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio, it is an estimate subject to revision as losses are confirmed. Higher levels of loan losses in the future could have a material adverse impact on financial performance. Federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require the Company to increase the provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from management’s. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Northern, Central and Western Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s business, real estate and construction loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control, could impact these local economic conditions and could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on the loan portfolio and allowance the loan and lease losses. The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase the Company’s interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. The Company does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. The Company’s interest expense will increase and its net interest margin will decrease if it begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued growth may require the need for additional capital and further regulatory approvals which, if not obtained, could adversely impact profitability and implementation of current strategic initiatives. To ensure continued growth, the Company will need to provide sufficient capital through earnings generation, additional equity or trust preferred offerings or borrowed funds or any combination of these funding sources. For certain amounts or types of indebtedness, the Company may be required to obtain certain regulatory approvals beforehand. The ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on the Company’s financial performance, as well as conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside the Company’s control. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure its ability to raise additional capital if needed on acceptable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand and grow operations and attain long-term profitability goals could be materially impacted. The Company’s subsidiary bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent the Company requires such dividends in the future, may affect its ability to pay obligations and dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from the subsidiary bank, and thus does not have significant revenue sources of its own. It currently depends on the subsidiary bank’s cash and liquidity as well as dividends from the banking subsidiary to pay operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the subsidiary bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends or that the Company will not require dividends from the subsidiary bank to satisfy the Company’s obligations. The availability of dividends from the subsidiary bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Depending upon the financial condition of the Company and other factors, it is possible that the Federal Reserve Board could limit the payment of dividends or other payments by the subsidiary bank. In the event the subsidiary bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy the Company's obligations, it may not be able to service its obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on the Company's common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the subsidiary bank could adversely affect financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which it operates. The Company is subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are intended to protect depositors and not shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond the Company’s control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. The Company’s success depends on its continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase costs and thus place other financial institutions that are not subject to similar regulations in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. Concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase loan losses, which would negatively affect financial results. The Company offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in the Company’s market area. At December 31, 2010, approximately 36% and 24% of the $2.10 billion loans receivable portfolio were secured by commercial and residential real estate, respectively. Continued pressures on the real estate markets, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral and the current recession in national and local economies, could adversely affect customers' ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact the Company. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and the Company tries to limit exposure to this risk by monitoring extensions of credit carefully. The Company cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. 11 Table of Contents The value of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $113.7 million of goodwill and $14.5 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in the Company’s expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Company’s common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, the Company would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company depends on the services of key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel may disrupt operations and result in reduced revenues. The Company’s success depends upon the continued service of the senior management team and upon the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In the Company’s experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out strategy. If the Company loses the services of key personnel, or is unable to attract additional qualified personnel, the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The Company is subject to executive compensation restrictions because of its participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. The Company is subject to TARP rules and standards governing executive compensation, which generally apply to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers and, with recent amendments, to a number of other employees. The standards include (i) a requirement to recover any bonus payment to senior executive officers or certain other employees if payment was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or performance metric criteria; (ii) a prohibition on making any golden parachute payments to senior executive officers and certain other employees; (iii) a prohibition on paying or accruing any bonus payment to certain employees, except as otherwise permitted by the rules; (iv) a prohibition on maintaining any plan for senior executive officers that encourages such officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the Company’s value; (v) a prohibition on maintaining any employee compensation plan that encourages the manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any employee; and (vi) a prohibition on providing tax gross-ups to senior executive officers and certain other employees. These restrictions and standards could limit the Company’s ability to recruit and retain executives. The securities purchase agreement between the Company and Treasury permits Treasury to impose additional restrictions retroactively. The securities purchase agreement the Company entered into with Treasury permits Treasury to unilaterally amend the terms of the securities purchase agreement to comply with any changes in federal statutes after the date of its execution. ARRA imposed additional executive compensation and expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients, including the Company, until it has repaid Treasury. These additional restrictions may impede the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. ARRA also permits TARP recipients to repay the Treasury without penalty or requirement that additional capital be raised, subject to Treasury’s consultation with the Company’s primary federal regulator while the securities purchase agreement required that, for a period of three years, the Series B preferred stock could generally only be repaid if the Company raised additional capital to repay the securities and such capital qualified as Tier 1 capital. Additional unilateral changes in the securities purchase agreement could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. While the Company’s common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market’s Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than stocks for larger companies quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although the Company has experienced increased liquidity in the stock, it cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of its common stock. The Company can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair its future ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s business is technology dependent, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and results in reduced costs. The Company’s future success will depend in part upon its ability to create synergies in its operations through the use of technology, particularly in light of its past and projected growth strategy. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company cannot make assurances that technological improvements will increase operational efficiency or that it will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s operations rely on certain external vendors. The Company is reliant upon certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations of the Company. Accordingly, the Company’s operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The Company maintains a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition, (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services and (iv) changes in the vendor’s strategic focus. While the Company believes these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to the Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 