Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: 4 Our profitability depends on interest rates generally. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition. Management attempts to minimize the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets in which our Company operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, STEL provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Northern, Central and Western Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on STEL’s business, real estate and construction loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could impact these local economic conditions and could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. If the combined company does not successfully integrate the operations of VFG and FNB, it may not realize the expected benefits from the merger. STEL expects that the combined company will be able to maintain most of FNB’s and VFG’s key customers and personnel and integrate their systems and operations successfully. Integration in connection with a merger of equals, however, is sometimes difficult, and there is a risk that integrating the two companies may take more time and resources than we expect. The combined company’s ability to integrate and its future success depend in large part on the ability of members of the combined company’s board of directors to work together effectively. Half of the combined company’s board of directors consists of former FNB directors and half consists of former VFG directors. Disagreements among board members of the combined company could arise in connection with integration issues, strategic considerations and other matters. As a result, there is a risk that the combined company’s board of directors may not be able to operate effectively, which would adversely affect the combined company’s ability to integrate the operations of FNB and VFG successfully. The combined company’s future success will also depend to a great extent on the continuing contributions of the directors and key management personnel. Our affiliate banks’ ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent STEL requires such dividends in the future, may affect our ability to pay obligations and dividends. STEL is a separate legal entity from the affiliate banks and independent trust company, and thus does not have significant revenue sources of its own. We currently depend on the affiliate banks’ cash and liquidity as well as dividends from our subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the affiliate banks will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends and that STEL will not require dividends from the affiliate banks to satisfy STEL’s obligations. The availability of dividends from our affiliate banks is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of STEL and other factors, that the Federal Reserve could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the affiliate banks are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the affiliate banks are unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations and the affiliate banks are unable to pay dividends to the Company, STEL may not be able to service its obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the affiliate banks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 5 Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that are not subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb estimated incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering current general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may cause our loan loss provision to vary widely from recent levels. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, it is an estimate subject to revision as losses are confirmed. Higher levels of loan losses in the future could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our loan losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. At December 31, 2007, approximately 45% and 42% of our $1.23 billion loans receivable portfolio were secured by commercial and residential real estate, respectively. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. Many competitors offer products and services which we do not and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. 6 We depend on the services of our key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel may disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may identify a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting that may adversely affect our ability to properly account for non-routine transactions. As we have grown and expanded, we have acquired and added, and expect to continue to acquire and add, businesses and other activities that complement our core retail and commercial banking functions. Such acquisitions or additions frequently involve complex operational and financial reporting issues that can influence management’s internal control system. While we make every effort to thoroughly understand any new activity or acquired entity’s business processes, our planning for proper integration into our Company can give no assurance that we will not encounter operational and financial reporting difficulties impacting our controls over the Company. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits at new branch locations as well as investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. Disruptions in our ability to access capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Because our mortgage banking revenue is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates may reduce our profits. Maintaining a high level of fees from this operation depends primarily on our ability to continue to originate mortgage loans. Production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and can suffer from decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates. Generally, any sustained period of decreased economic activity or higher interest rates could adversely affect our mortgage originations and, consequently, reduce our income from mortgage banking activities. As a result, these conditions may adversely affect our net income. 7 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 