Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as other information in our filings under the Exchange Act before making any investment decisions regarding our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. If events corresponding to any of these risks actually occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. When used in this report, unless otherwise indicated, “we,” “our” and “us” refers to VaxGen. 9 We do not have current financial statements, and therefore you are not able to evaluate our current financial condition or operating history and results. Since 2004, when we determined the need to restate our prior years’ financial statements, we have not been able to file timely quarterly and annual reports with the SEC. While we have made progress towards becoming current in our filings, the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K of which this disclosure is a part is not being made on a timely basis and there can be no assurance when we will be able to become current in our filings pursuant to Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, if at all. Unless and until we become current in our reporting obligations, you will be unable to evaluate our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we will be unable to solicit proxies in most circumstances or to relist with Nasdaq or list on an alternative stock exchange. Our business to date has been largely dependent on the success of rPA 102, which was the subject the SNS Contract that was terminated in December 2006. Although we ceased active development of rPA102 and have reduced our workforce, we may be unable to successfully manage our remaining resources, including available cash, while we seek to identify and complete a strategic transaction. We discontinued clinical development of rPA102 after HHS terminated our SNS Contract. In addition, in June 2007 we terminated of our contract with Kaketsuken to develop a smallpox vaccine. We had previously devoted substantially all of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources toward the development of rPA, and we have no products candidates in clinical or preclinical development. In connection with the termination of our clinical development of rPA102, we announced restructuring activities, including significant workforce reductions and the. In 2007, we incurred non-recurring charges associated with our restructuring activities of approximately $4.5 million, which includes employee severance costs of $3.5 million and facilities-related and other expenses of $1.0 million. As a result of the termination of our SNS Contract, we are evaluating strategic alternatives and have retained Lazard Ltd. to act as its advisor in this process. We cannot predict whether we be able to identify an appropriate strategic alternative which will either provide us with a pipeline or return value to our shareholders on a timely basis or at all. We also cannot predict whether any such transaction would be consummated on favorable terms, and anticipate that such transaction may require us to incur significant additional costs. If we fail to cause a registration statement to be declared effective in accordance with the timetable set forth in the Notes, or in accordance with agreements we have made in connection with private placements of our common stock, we will be subject to liquidated damages or liability for breach of contract. In April 2005, we raised gross proceeds of $31.5 million through a private placement of 5 1/2% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes, or Notes, due April 1, 2010. We agreed to register under the Securities Act shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, as well as shares issued or issuable in private placements of our common stock. We have agreed to file registration statements for these shares within 30 days following the first date we become current in our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, and to use our best efforts to cause the registration statements to become effective in no event later than 120 days after the filing of such registration statements. We have also made other customary agreements regarding such registrations, including matters relating to indemnification, maintenance of the registration statements, payment of expenses and compliance with state “blue sky” laws. We may be liable for liquidated damages to each Note holder and purchaser in the private placements (a) if the registration statements are not filed on or prior to 30 days of becoming current in our reporting requirements; (b) if the registration statements are not declared effective by the SEC on or prior to 120 days from filing; or (c) if the registration statements (after being declared effective) cease to be effective in a manner that violates such agreements, or a Registration Default. In the event of a Registration Default, we may be required to pay liquidated damages. Should we become obligated to make payment of these liquidated damages, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations, particularly if we become obligated to make a payment in full for all liquidated damages potentially due and payable under these agreements. We are not currently listed on a national exchange and cannot assure you we will ever be listed. As a result of our failure to make timely filings of financial statements, we were delisted from Nasdaq, and our common stock is not currently listed on another national stock exchange. Until we complete all necessary filings with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, we will not be able to apply for our common stock to be listed on a national exchange. We do not know when, if ever, this will be completed, and thus, whether our common stock will ever be listed. In addition, we cannot be certain that Nasdaq will approve our stock for relisting or that any other exchange will approve our stock for listing. In order to be eligible for relisting or listing, we must meet Nasdaq’s or another exchange’s initial listing criteria, and we believe we will need to be in compliance with Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets, LLC. If we fail to manage successfully any company or product acquisitions, joint ventures or in-licensed product candidates, we may be limited in our ability to develop our product candidates and to rebuild our product candidate pipeline. Our current product development programs were initiated through in-licensing or collaborative arrangements. These collaborations include licensing proprietary technology from, and other relationships with, biotechnology companies and government research institutes and organizations. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to expand our product pipeline and capabilities through company or product acquisitions, merging or in-licensing. 10 Any such activities will be accompanied by certain risks including: • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • the difficulty and expense of integrating operations and personnel of acquired companies; • disruption of our ongoing business; • diversion of management’s time and attention; and • possible dilution to stockholders. If our competitors successfully enter into partnering or license agreements or we are unable to reach agreement on license or partnering agreements on terms acceptable to us, we may then be precluded from pursuing those specific opportunities. Since each of these opportunities is unique, we may not be able to find a substitute. In addition, if we are unable to manage successfully any acquisitions, joint ventures and other collaboration opportunities, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products and therefore to continue to expand our product pipeline. We are currently ineligible to register securities with the SEC, and we may never regain compliance. Until we have filed current financial statements and made all the necessary filings with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, we will not be able to register any securities for resale. Until we are able to register securities with the SEC for resale, any purchasers of our common stock or other securities directly from us will have to rely on an exemption from the federal and state securities laws in order to resell their securities. We cannot estimate when, if ever, we will have filed outstanding periodic reports and regained compliance with Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Our internal controls may be insufficient to ensure timely and reliable financial information. We believe we need to correct deficiencies in our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. Because of the material weaknesses described in Item 9A of this Annual Report, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Failure to address the identified deficiencies in a timely manner might increase the risk of future financial reporting misstatements and may prevent us from being able to meet our filing deadlines with the SEC. Under the supervision of our Audit Committee, we are continuing the process of identifying and implementing corrective actions where required to improve the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including the enhancement of systems and procedures. Significant additional resources will be required to establish and maintain appropriate controls and procedures and to prepare the required financial and other information during this process. Even after corrective actions are implemented, the effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks including: • faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; • collusion of two or more people; • inappropriate management override of procedures; and • the risk that enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and reliable financial information. If we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information. Additionally, if we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, it could adversely affect our financial reporting requirements under future government contracts. We may need to raise additional capital to support our operations if we successfully complete a strategic transaction in order to continue as a going concern. Absent a strategic transaction, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2006 along with the proceeds of our April 2007 settlement with the U.S. government over the termination of the SNS Contract will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through at least December 31, 2008. In addition to our workforce reductions and the termination of our rPA102 and smallpox development activities, we have announced that we are exploring strategic alternatives. We may not successfully identify or implement any of these alternatives, and even if we determine to pursue one or more of these alternatives, we may be unable to do so on acceptable financial terms. Our restructuring measures implemented to date and 11 any proposed strategic alternatives may disappoint investors and further depress the price of our common stock and the value of an investment in our common stock thereby limiting our ability to raise additional funds. We will require substantial funds to conduct development activities if we acquire additional products or companies or consummate certain strategic transactions. Our ability to conduct the required development activities related to any new product candidates will be significantly limited if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital. We may seek to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs. We do not know, however, whether additional financing will be available when needed, or whether it will be available on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain adequate financing also may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. As a result of the reduction in our workforce that we announced in January and May 2007, we may not be successful in retaining key employees and in attracting qualified new employees as required in the future. If we are unable to retain our management, scientific staff and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to rebuild our business will be seriously jeopardized. In January 2007, we implemented a restructuring resulting in the reduction of our workforce by approximately 51%. In May 2007, we announced the discontinuation of any further development activities with respect to rPA102 and a corporate restructuring plan that included a reduction in our workforce to fewer than 70 employees. Competition among biotechnology companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to our success. We may experience further reductions in force due to voluntary employee resignations and a diminished ability to recruit new employees. We may be unable to attract or retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to meet our obligations under the Notes, our payment obligations may be accelerated. The Notes have the following features: • require semi-annual payment of interest in cash at a rate of 5 1/2%; • convert, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of approximately $14.76 per share, subject to adjustment; • will be provisionally redeemable at our option in cash upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, including among others, that the closing price of VaxGen common stock exceeds $22.14 per share, subject to adjustment, for at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days; • if a change in control, as defined in the indenture, occurs on or prior to the stated maturity of the Notes, the holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase the Notes and pay a make-whole premium to the holders of the Notes. If the holders request such a repurchase, we or the successor entity may choose to pay in cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock; and • constitute senior subordinated obligations. Under the terms of the Notes, if certain events occur, including, without limitation, our failure to pay any installment of principal or interest due under the Notes, then the holders may, among other things, elect to accelerate our obligations under the Notes and declare the outstanding principal balance of the Notes and accrued but unpaid interest thereon immediately due and payable. In the event that the holders declare the Notes immediately due and payable or seek to foreclose on any of our assets, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and we may not have sufficient cash to satisfy our obligations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, limit our cash flow available to invest in the ongoing requirements of our business and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our existing indebtedness consists of $31.5 million in Notes. This indebtedness, and any future indebtedness we may incur, could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial and payment obligations, or to refinance maturing indebtedness; • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy or our business; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • requiring application of a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service costs, which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry, business and markets; and 12 • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to the extent we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future to fund our continued operations or future acquisitions. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. We may be required to repurchase the Notes if certain change in control events occur. We have only a limited operating history and we expect to continue to generate operating losses. To date, we have engaged primarily in research, development and clinical testing. Since our inception in 1995, our operations have not been profitable, and we cannot be certain that we will ever achieve or sustain operating profitability. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $210 million. Developing any future product candidates will require significant additional research and development, including non-clinical testing and clinical trials, as well as regulatory approval. We expect these activities, together with our general and administrative expenses, to result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. Biopharmaceutical product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and the approval requirements for many products, including vaccines used to fight bioterrorism, are still evolving. If we are unable to successfully develop and test product candidates in accordance with such requirements, our business will suffer. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. In the United States, our product candidates are regulated by the FDA as biological drug products, known as Biologics. In order to obtain approval from the FDA to market our product candidates, we will be required to submit to the FDA a BLA, which must include both preclinical and clinical trial data as prescribed by the FDA’s current regulatory criteria, as well as extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures and processes for the product candidates. Ordinarily, the FDA requires a sponsor to support a BLA application with substantial evidence of the product’s safety and effectiveness in treating the targeted indication based on data derived from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials, including Phase 3 efficacy trials conducted in patients with the disease or condition being targeted. Because humans are not normally exposed to some of the agents targeted by biodefense programs, such as anthrax or smallpox, statistically significant effectiveness of our biodefense product candidates cannot be demonstrated in humans, but instead must be demonstrated, in part, by utilizing animal models before they can be approved for marketing. Specifically, we would have to pursue FDA approval of products such as our anthrax and smallpox vaccine candidates under requirements published by the FDA in 2002 that allow the FDA to approve certain vaccines used to reduce or prevent the toxicity of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear substances based on human clinical data to demonstrate safety and immune response, and evidence of effectiveness derived from appropriate non-clinical studies and any additional supporting data. We cannot predict whether we will obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates pursuant to these provisions, or at all. We may fail to obtain approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, or experience delays in obtaining such approvals, due to varying interpretations of data or failure to satisfy current safety, efficacy, and quality control requirements. Further, our business is subject to substantial risk because the FDA’s current policies may change suddenly and unpredictably and in ways that could impair our ability to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot guarantee that the FDA will approve our product candidates on a timely basis or at all. Delays in successfully completing our clinical trials could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market our product candidates on a timely basis. Our business prospects will depend on our ability to complete patient enrollment in clinical trials, to obtain satisfactory results, to obtain required regulatory approvals and to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Product development to show adequate evidence of effectiveness in animal models and safety and immune response in humans is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of our non-clinical studies or clinical trials. Any delay or significant adverse clinical events arising during any of our clinical trials could force us to abandon a product candidate altogether or to conduct additional clinical trials in order to obtain approval from the FDA or other regulatory body. These development efforts and clinical trials are lengthy and expensive, and the outcome is uncertain. Completion of our clinical trials, announcement of results of the trials and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • slower-than-anticipated enrollment of volunteers in the trials; • lower-than-anticipated recruitment or retention rate of volunteers in the trials; • serious adverse events related to the product candidates; • unsatisfactory results of any clinical trial; • the failure of our principal third-party investigators to perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedules; or • different interpretations of our preclinical and clinical data, which could initially lead to inconclusive results. 13 Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in any clinical trial or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If the delays are significant, or if any of our product candidates do not prove to be safe or effective or do not receive required regulatory approvals, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed. Furthermore, our inability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval. The independent clinical investigators that we rely upon to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes in the conduct of our clinical trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our product development programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our product development programs, or if their performance is substandard or fails to comply with the protocol and applicable laws and regulatory standards, FDA approval of our product candidates may be delayed or prevented. These independent investigators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If these independent investigators assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by domestic and foreign regulatory authorities both before and after we obtain approval of our product candidates, the commercialization of our product candidates could be prevented, delayed or suspended. Product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization in the United States and other countries. Our product candidates are in the preclinical and clinical stages of development and have not received required regulatory approval from the FDA to be commercially marketed and sold in the United States. Our product candidates have not received required regulatory approval from foreign regulatory agencies to be commercially marketed and sold. The process of obtaining and complying with FDA, other governmental and foreign regulatory approvals and regulations is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Despite the time and expense exerted, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. We also are subject to the following regulatory risks and obligations, among others; • the FDA or foreign regulators may refuse to approve an application if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied; • the FDA or foreign regulators may require additional testing for safety and effectiveness; • the FDA or foreign regulators may interpret data from non-clinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we interpret them; • if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution. In addition, many foreign countries control pricing and coverage under their respective national social security systems; • the FDA or foreign regulators may not approve our manufacturing processes or manufacturing facilities; • the FDA or foreign regulators may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations; • even if regulatory approval for any product is obtained, the marketing license will be subject to continual review, and newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may result in suspension or revocation of the marketing license; • if regulatory approval of the vaccine candidate is granted, the marketing of that vaccine would be subject to adverse event reporting requirements and a general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses; and • in some foreign countries, we may be subject to official release requirements that require each batch of the vaccine we produce to be officially released by regulatory authorities prior to its distribution by us. Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable foreign regulatory bodies may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • warning letters; • civil penalties; • criminal penalties; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention, including any products that we manufacture; 14 • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of production; and • suspension or revocation of the marketing license. We are subject to ongoing regulatory review and periodic inspection and approval of manufacturing procedures and operations, including compliance with cGMP regulations. The manufacturing methods, equipment and processes used by us and any future subcontractors must comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations. The cGMP requirements govern, among other things, recordkeeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control. The FDA must approve the facilities used to manufacture our products before they can be used to commercially manufacture our vaccine products and these facilities are subject to ongoing and periodic inspections. If we or our subcontractors fail to comply with cGMP requirements, or fail to pass a pre-approval inspection of our manufacturing facility, we may not receive regulatory approval. In addition, preparing a manufacturing facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays and the costs of complying with the cGMP regulations may be significant. Any material changes we make to our manufacturing processes after we obtain approval of a product may require approval by the FDA, state or foreign regulatory authorities. Our product development efforts may not yield marketable products due to results of studies or trials, failure to achieve regulatory approvals or market acceptance, proprietary rights of others or manufacturing issues. Our success depends on our ability to successfully acquire, develop and obtain regulatory approval to market new biopharmaceutical products. Development of a product requires substantial technical, financial and human resources. Our potential products may appear to be promising at various stages of development yet fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, including: • the lack of adequate quality or sufficient prevention benefit, or unacceptable safety during preclinical studies or clinical trials; • their failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • the existence of proprietary rights of third parties; or • the inability to develop manufacturing methods that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards. We may fail to protect our intellectual property or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, either of which could harm our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent other companies from using our technology in competitive products. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be prevented from developing or marketing our product candidates. We rely on patent and other intellectual property protection to prevent our competitors from manufacturing and marketing our product candidates. Given the rights retained and licenses granted to the U.S. government with regard to our anthrax vaccine candidate, to the extent that the U.S. government or foreign governments or organizations procuring vaccines through treaties or agreements with the U.S. government constitute the primary market for any of our products, the licenses granted by the U.S. government may not provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, under our U.S. government contracts, we have a duty to disclose each invention that we conceive or reduce to practice in performing the agreement, and if we wish to retain title to such invention, we must affirmatively elect to do so. If we fail to strictly follow these disclosure requirements, the U.S. government could take title to such inventions and preclude us from using them. For each invention to which we retain title, the U.S. government has both a worldwide, irrevocable, royalty-free license to practice or have practiced such invention on behalf of the U.S. government, and certain “march-in” rights pursuant to which the U.S. government could require us to license the invention that we own to third parties, including our competitors. Technology that we may acquire or license in the future, if any, will be protected from unauthorized use by others only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, or effectively maintained as trade secrets and exclusively licensed to us. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope and breadth of patent claims that may be afforded to other companies’ patents. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we initiate these suits, even in such instances in which the outcome is favorable to us. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any patents issued to us or licensed from Kaketsuken or USAMRIID or other parties, or that we may license in the future, if any, will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; 15 • we or any of our current or future licensors will adequately protect trade secrets; or • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or the patents of others will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that patents issued to us in the future, if any, or that we may license in the future, if any, will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. In this regard, the U.S. government has the right to use, for or on behalf of the U.S. government, any technologies developed by us under our U.S. government contracts and we cannot prohibit third parties, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the U.S. government. Accordingly, under our license agreement with USAMRIID granting us an exclusive license to commercialize the anthrax vaccine, the U.S. government retains a license for any federal government agency to practice USAMRIID’s anthrax-related inventions, by or on behalf of the government, thereby allowing the use of the inventions in support of government contracts with other parties, including our competitors. Moreover, we could lose the USAMRIID license if the U.S. government terminates the license if we or any of our sublicensees: • fail to diligently develop a vaccine product in accordance with the development plan described in the agreement; • materially breach the agreement; • make a materially false statement (or fail to provide required information) in a plan or report required under the agreement; • fail to make payments required under the agreement; or • file for bankruptcy. In addition, we cannot assure you that our operations or technology will not infringe intellectual property rights of others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office keeps United States patent applications confidential while the applications are pending. As a result, we cannot determine which inventions third parties claim in pending patent applications that they have filed. We may need to engage in litigation to defend or enforce our patent and license rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. If we infringe the intellectual property of others, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to use the technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain licenses could force us to cease development or sale of a product candidate. We face competition from several companies with greater financial, personnel and research and development resources than ours. Our competitors are developing product candidates which could compete with those we develop in the future. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products for any of the diseases that we target that: • are more effective; • have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; • are more adaptable to various modes of dosing; • are easier to store or transport; • are easier to administer; or • are less expensive than the product candidates we develop. Even if we are successful in developing effective products and obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals necessary for commercializing them, our products may not compete effectively with other successful products. Researchers are continually learning more about diseases, which may lead to new technologies for treatment. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products either that are more effective than those that we may develop, alone or with our collaborators, making our products obsolete, or that are marketed before any products we develop are marketed. Our competitors include fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that currently have drug and target discovery efforts, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. Many of the organizations competing with us may have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater marketing capabilities than we do. 16 Natural disasters, including earthquakes, may damage our facilities. Our corporate and manufacturing facilities are primarily located in California. Our facilities in California are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. As a result, our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities are susceptible to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as fires, floods and similar events. Although we maintain general business insurance against fires and some general business interruptions, there can be no assurance that the scope or amount of coverage will be adequate in any particular case. Our use of hazardous materials and chemicals require us to comply with regulatory requirements and exposes us to potential liabilities. Our research and development may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for significant damages or fines. These damages could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance coverage. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future. We may become subject to product liability claims, which could result in damages that exceed our insurance coverage. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with product candidates tested in human clinical trials or sold commercially. We may become subject to a product liability suit if any product candidate we develop causes injury, or if individuals subsequently become infected or otherwise suffer adverse effects from our product candidates. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. We maintained product liability insurance, including clinical trial liability, in the amount of $10.0 million for our programs up until March 2007, when the programs were suspended. We have an extended reporting period for claims that may arise under this coverage. We cannot be certain that additional insurance coverage, if required, could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be subject to claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Our stockholders could experience substantial dilution as a result of the issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to establish the designation of almost 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock that are convertible into common stock without any action by our stockholders, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares. In February 2006, we raised net proceeds of $25.2 million through a private placement of 3.5 million shares of common stock at $7.70 per share to a group of accredited institutional investors. We also issued to the investors five-year warrants initially exercisable to purchase 699,996 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $9.24 per share. Because we did not file all of our delinquent periodic reports with the SEC by January 31, 2007, the warrants became exercisable for an additional 700,000 shares of common stock, at a price of $9.24 per share. We may raise additional funds through public or private offerings of our preferred stock or our common stock, or through issuance of debt securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or conversion of preferred stock or debt securities into shares of common stock, would further dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders. Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock. After we have filed all of our outstanding periodic reports with the SEC, if at all, from time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of our common stock by means of effective resale registration statements. We agreed to register for resale under the Securities Act the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes and the shares of our common stock issued in private placements of our common stock in November 2004 and February 2006. We have agreed to file registration statements for these shares within 30 days following the first date we become current in our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act and to use our best efforts to cause the registration statements to become effective in no event later than 120 days after the filing of these registration statements. In addition, pursuant to Rule 144, generally, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average 17 weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitation, by our stockholders that are non-affiliates that have satisfied a two year holding period, such as certain of those stockholders who purchased shares of our common stock in our November 2004 private placement. Any substantial sale of our common stock under effective resale registration statements or pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. Currently, our common stock is traded OTC and is quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets LLC. Stocks traded OTC typically are subject to greater volatility than stocks traded on stock exchanges, such as the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market, due to the fact that OTC trading volumes are generally significantly less than on stock exchanges. This lower volume may allow a relatively few number of stock trades to greatly affect the stock price. As such, the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. For example, between August 9, 2004 and December 31, 2006, the closing price of our common stock, as quoted on the Pink Sheets, has ranged from a high of $18.55 per share to a low of $1.24 per share. Our stock price could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • timing and consistency of filing financial statements; • failure to win future government contracts and government activities relating to prior contracts; • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • delays in our product development efforts; • real or perceived safety issues with any of our product candidates; • failure to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and our failure to meet or exceed such estimates; • rumors about our business prospects, product development efforts or the progress, timing and completion of our clinical trials; • new products or services offered by us or our competitors or announcements relating to product developments by our competitors; • issuances of debt or equity securities; • issuances of securities or the expectation of the issuance of securities as part of a merger or other strategic transaction; • actual or expected sales by our stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. If we face securities litigation in the future, even if it is without merit or unsuccessful, it would result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have no history of paying dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance our growth. If we decide to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock, such dividends may not be paid on a timely basis. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of VaxGen. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock. Our charter and by-laws also provide that special stockholders meetings may be called only by our Chairman of the board of directors, by our Secretary at the written request of the chairman or by our board of directors, with the result that any third-party takeover not supported by the board of directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. 18 We are not compliant with Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we perform an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and engage our independent registered public accounting firm to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. We were required to complete the assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control reporting as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Although we completed our assessments in 2006 and 2005, given our focus on completing and filing our financial statements for those years, we did not have sufficient time nor did we provide sufficient time to our independent registered public accounting firm to complete our and their 2004 respective responsibilities before December 31, 2004. Our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that we failed to complete the required 2004 assessment as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and they were unable to complete their required audit of internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, they disclaimed an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for 2004. We do not believe that the SEC has provided guidance as to the effect of such a disclaimer. Having received such a disclaimer, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, may be deemed to be deficient by the SEC. If our 2004 10-K were deemed to be deficient, the SEC may conclude that we are in violation of Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by recently adopted changes in accounting for stock options. The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, or FAS 123R, in December 2004. FAS123R, which we implemented effective January 1, 2006, requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their fair values. The future impact of FAS 123R cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model as allowed under FAS 123R to determine the fair value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 