Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors which appear below could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including overall economic and industry conditions, especially in the Eastern 8 United States, where all of our clubs are located, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, terrorism, major health concerns or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material also may impair our business results of operations and financial condition. Competition May Adversely Affect Our Profitability We compete with a wide range of national, regional and local retailers and wholesalers selling food and/or general merchandise in our markets. Some of these competitors, including two major competitors (Sam’s Clubs (a division of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.) and Costco Wholesale Corporation) who operate on a multi-national basis, have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than BJ’s. These retailers and wholesalers compete in a variety of ways, including price, location, services offered to customers and merchandise selection. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or future competitors. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive factors may have an adverse effect on our profitability as a result of lower sales or increased operating costs. Our Business May be Affected by Issues that Affect Consumer Spending Our results of operations may be affected by changes in economic factors that impact consumer spending. Certain economic conditions such as contraction in the financial markets, rates of inflation or deflation, higher unemployment levels, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, higher insurance and health care costs, and labor costs could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to our competitors. Reduced consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our items and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. A reduction or shift in consumer spending could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. New Store Openings are Critical to Our Growth Our long-term sales and income growth is dependent to a certain degree on our ability to open new clubs and gasoline stations in both existing markets and new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion on a timely and profitable basis. Our expansion is dependent on finding suitable locations, which may be affected by local regulations and construction and development costs and competition from other retailers for particular sites. If prospective landlords find it difficult to obtain credit, we may need to own more new clubs rather than leasing them. Owned locations require more initial capital, and therefore, such a situation may constrain our growth. In addition, we may not be able to hire, train and retain a suitable work force to staff these locations or successfully integrate new clubs into our existing infrastructure. As a result, we may be unable to open new clubs at the rates expected or operate the clubs in a profitable manner. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. In new markets, we cannot ensure that our new clubs will be profitably deployed; as a result, our future profitability may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. Our Comparable Club Sales and Quarterly Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly Our comparable club sales may be adversely affected for many reasons, including new store openings by our competitors and the opening of our own new clubs that may cannibalize existing club sales. Comparable club sales may also be affected by cycling against strong sales in the prior year, by our own clubs entering into the comparable club base and by price reductions in response to competition. Our quarterly operating results may be adversely affected by a number of factors including losses in new clubs, price changes in response to competitors’ prices, increases in operating costs, volatility in gasoline and 9 energy prices, federal budgetary and tax policy, weather conditions, natural disasters, local economic conditions and the timing of new club openings and related start-up costs. As a result, our quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter. We Depend on Vendors to Supply us with Quality Merchandise at the Right Time and at the Right Price We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We source our merchandise from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards, and to access merchandise in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to vendors located and merchandise sourced outside the United States. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing, or access to new products, and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or may discontinue selling to us. In addition, member demand may lead to insufficient in-stock positions of our merchandise. Currently, one distributor consolidates all of our perishables for shipment to our clubs. While we believe that such a consolidation is in our best interest overall, a prolonged disruption in our logistics processes could materially impact our sales and profitability for the near term. Our Failure to Maintain Positive Membership Loyalty Could Negatively Affect our Financial Results Membership loyalty is essential to our business model. Damage to our reputation, failure to provide quality merchandise at consistently low prices, and increases to our membership fees, among other things, could diminish member loyalty, reduce membership renewal rates, and accordingly, reduce membership fee revenues. We May Not Timely Identify or Effectively Respond to Consumer Trends, Which Could Negatively Affect our Relationship with our Members, the Demand for our Products and Services, and our Market Share. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services our members will demand. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and member preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to sustainability of product sources) and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on margins and operating income. Implementation of Technology Initiatives Could Disrupt our Operations in the Near Term and Fail to Provide the Anticipated Benefits As our business grows, we continue to make significant technology investments both in our operations and in our administrative functions. The costs, potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. They may also require us to divert resources from our core business to ensure that implementation is successful. In addition, new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits; it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits; the technology might fail or cost more than anticipated. Product Mix Could Impact our Results of Operations Changes in our product mix may negatively affect certain financial indicators. For example, we continue to add gas stations to our store base. Prices of gasoline are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in domestic and international supply and demand. Significant changes in gasoline prices may affect our sales and profit margins. Since gasoline generates low profit margin rates as compared to the remainder of our business, we could expect to see our overall gross profit margin rates decline as sales of gasoline increase. 10 Union Attempts to Organize Our Team Members Could Disrupt Our Business In the past, unions have attempted to organize our team members at certain of our clubs and distribution centers. Our management and team members may be required to devote their time to respond to union activities, which could be distracting to our operations. Future union activities may negatively impact our business and results of operations. Changes in labor laws or regulations in this area could also adversely impact our business if such changes promote union activity. Credit May Not Be Available or Affordable The continued uncertainty in the global credit and financial markets may affect our ability to obtain future financing as well as make it more expensive to obtain such financing. While we believe that our current resources, together with anticipated cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to finance our operations in the future, we may need to obtain additional resources. We cannot assure you that we can obtain such resources, or obtain them at a reasonable cost. Not obtaining additional credit at a reasonable cost may negatively affect our ability to invest in capital expenditures, repurchase stock, and limit our ability to use operating cash flow for our working capital needs. Certain Legal Proceedings Could Adversely Impact Our Results of Operations We are involved in a number of legal proceedings involving employment issues, personal injury, product liability, consumer matters, intellectual property claims and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in material liability. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 6 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Further, we are unable to predict whether unknown claims may be brought against us that could become material. Insurance Claims Could Adversely Impact our Results of Operations We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation, general liability, property, fiduciary liability and employee health care and life insurance claims. Liabilities associated with the risk retained by the Company are estimated based on historical claims experience and other actuarial assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if actual future occurrences and claims differ from our assumptions and historical trends. Product Recalls Could Adversely Affect our Sales and Results of Operations If our merchandise offerings, including food and general merchandise products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our members’ expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. All of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and generally must agree to indemnify us in the case of loss, but we are dependent on our vendors, including vendors located outside the United States, to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. If a recall does occur we have procedures in place to notify our clubs and, if appropriate, the members who have purchased the goods in question. We determine the appropriateness on a case-by-case basis, based, in part, on the size of the recall, the severity of the potential impact to the member, the attention that the product recall has in the media, and our ability to contact the purchasers of the products in question. Our Success Depends on our Ability to Attract and Retain a Qualified Management Team and Other Team Members We are dependent upon a number of key management and other team members. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our key team members, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our continued success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified team members to meet 11 our future growth needs, while controlling related labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and healthcare costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified team members to operate our business. In addition, uncertainties introduced by our announcement to explore strategic alternatives may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain our key management team members and other team members. See the risk factor below entitled, “There are Uncertainties Introduced by Our Announcement to Explore and Evaluate Strategic Alternatives.” If We Do Not Maintain the Security of Member-related Information, We Could Damage our Reputation with Members, Incur Substantial Additional Costs and Become Subject to Litigation As do most retailers and wholesale club operators, we receive certain personal information about our members. In addition, our online operations at www.bjs.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our efficient operation, like that of most retailers, requires the transmission of information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems or those of some of our business partners that results in our members’ personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. Non-compliance with Privacy and Information Security Laws may Damage Our Business The use of individually identifiable data by our business is regulated at the federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal or financial risk as a result of non-compliance. Factors Associated with Climate Change Could Adversely Affect Our Business We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline and electricity in our distribution and sale operations. Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs could materially affect our profitability. There are Uncertainties Introduced by Our Announcement to Explore and Evaluate Strategic Alternatives In February 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of a committee of independent directors, has decided to explore and evaluate strategic alternatives, including a possible sale of the Company. The independent committee has engaged Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc. as its financial advisor to assist in this process. The Company has not made a decision to pursue any specific strategic transaction or other strategic alternative, so there can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in a sale of the Company or in any other transaction. There is no set timetable for the process. The Company does not intend to provide updates or make further comments regarding the evaluation of strategic alternatives, unless a specific transaction is recommended by the independent committee and the board, or the process is concluded. The closing market price per share of our common stock rose significantly as a result of this announcement. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to developments 12 relating to this process, including any future announcements related to our evaluation of strategic alternatives, sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur, or other factors or events, which may be outside of our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 