ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is complex, dynamic and international. Accordingly, it is subject to a number of significant risks in the ordinary course of its operations. If we cannot or do not successfully manage the risks associated with the services we provide, our operations, business, operating results, reputation and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. One of the challenges of a global business such as ours is to determine in a sophisticated manner the critical enterprise risks that exist or may newly develop over time as our business evolves. We must then determine how best to employ reasonably available resources to prevent, mitigate and/or minimize those risks that have the greatest potential to cause significant damage from an operational, financial or reputational standpoint. An important dynamic we must also consider and appropriately manage is how much and what types of commercial insurance to obtain and how much potential liability may remain uninsured consistent with the infrastructure that is in place within the organization to identify and properly manage it. We attempt to approach enterprise risk issues in an increasingly coordinated way across the globe. We govern our enterprise risk program primarily through our Global Operating Committee (the GOC). Our Global Chief Operating Officer chairs the GOC, which includes the Chief Operating Officers of our four reported business segments and the leaders of our principal corporate staff groups: Finance, Legal Services, Accounting, Insurance, Human Resources, Tax and Information Technology. The GOC coordinates its enterprise risk activities with our Internal Audit function, whose leadership attends GOC meetings and performs an annual risk assessment of our business in order to determine where to focus its auditing efforts. Representatives of the GOC and Internal Audit review risk matters, including emerging risks and the mitigation efforts that are in place, and report to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Various factors over which we have no control significantly affect commercial real estate markets. These include (1) macro movements of the stock, bond, currency and derivatives markets, (2) the political environment and (3) government policy and regulations. The severe financial disruption and global recession that occurred during 2008 and 2009 materially impacted global real estate markets as the volume and pace of commercial real estate transactions contracted and real estate pricing and leasing in many countries and markets fell substantially. Markets stabilized and improved during 2010, and business levels and confidence have improved to more normal levels. However, macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties remain as the strength of the recovery has varied from one economy to another. Also, governments have responded to the financial crisis in different ways. While some economies in Asia have been robust, unemployment in the United States has remained high and Europe has struggled with the debt levels of certain countries. Accordingly, it is inherently difficult to make accurate predictions about the future movements in the markets in which we operate. 13 Table of Contents This section reflects our current views concerning the most significant risks we believe our business faces, both in the short-term and the long-term. We do not, however, purport to include every possible risk from which we might sustain a loss. For purposes of the following analysis and discussion, we generally group the risks we face according to four principal categories: • External Market Risk Factors; • Internal Operational Risk Factors; • Financial Risk Factors; and • Human Resources Risk Factors. We could appropriately place some of the risks we identify in more than one category, but we have chosen the one we view as primary. We do not necessarily present the risks below in their order of significance, the relative likelihood that we will experience a loss or the magnitude of any such loss. We also do not attempt to discuss the various significant efforts we employ to attempt to mitigate or avoid the risks we identify, although we believe we have a robust program to do so in a systematic way. Certain of these risks also may give rise to business opportunities for our firm, but our discussion of risk factors in Item 1A is limited to the adverse effects the risks may have on our business. External Market Risk Factors GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND REAL ESTATE MARKET CONDITIONS CAN HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. Real estate markets are cyclical. They relate to the condition of the economy or, at least, to the perceptions of investors and users as to the relevant economic outlook. For example, corporations may be hesitant to expand space or enter into long-term commitments if they are concerned about the general economic environment. Corporations that are under financial pressure for any reason, or are attempting to more aggressively manage their expenses, may (1) reduce the size of their workforces, (2) reduce spending on capital expenditures, including with respect to their offices, (3) permit more of their staff to work from home offices and/or (4) seek corresponding reductions in office space and related management services. We have previously experienced, and expect in the future that we will be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdown or recession, and corresponding declines in the demand for real estate and related services. The recent economic recession was extraordinary for its worldwide scope, severity and impact on major financial institutions, as well as the extent of governmental stimulus and regulatory responses. The speed with which markets change, both positively and negatively, has accelerated due to the increased global interconnectedness that has resulted from the immediacy and availability of information, among other reasons. This has added to the challenges of anticipating and quickly adapting to changes in business and revenue, particularly since real estate transactions are inherently complicated and longer-term in nature. Negative economic conditions and declines in the demand for real estate and related services in several markets or in significant markets could have a material adverse effect, including as a result of the following factors: • Decline in Acquisition and Disposition Activity A general decline in acquisition and disposition activity can lead to a reduction in the fees and commissions we receive for arranging such transactions, as well as in fees and commissions we earn for arranging financing for acquirers. For example, although overall conditions improved during 2010, restrictions in the availability of credit in the global financial markets and the various other well-publicized business dislocations that resulted from the overall financial crisis, significantly reduced the volume and pace of commercial real estate transactions during 2008 and 2009 and negatively impacted real estate pricing as a general matter in many countries. • Decline in the Real Estate Values and Performance, Leasing Activity and Rental Rates A general decline in the value and performance of real estate and in rental rates can lead to a reduction in both (1) investment management fees, a significant portion of which is generally based upon the performance of investments and net asset values, and (2) the value of the co-investments we make with our investment management clients or merchant banking investments we have made for our own account. Additionally, such declines can lead to a reduction in fees and commissions that are based on the value of, or revenue produced by, the properties with respect to which we provide services. This may include fees and commissions (1) for property management and valuations, (2) generated by our Capital Markets, Hotels and other businesses for arranging acquisitions, dispositions and financings and (3) for arranging leasing transactions. Such declines can also lead to an unwillingness or inability of clients to make new (or honor existing) capital commitments to funds sponsored by our investment management business, which can result in a decline of both investment management fees and incentive fees and can also restrict our ability to employ capital for new investments in current funds or establish new funds. The general decline in the value and performance of real estate impacted the value of our own co-investments. While significantly less than in 2009, during 2010 we continued to recognize impairment charges for our co-investments due primarily to a decline in the value of the underlying real estate investments. 14 Table of Contents Historically for companies in our industry, a significant decline in real estate values in a given market has also generally tended to result in increased litigation and claims regarding advisory and valuation work done prior to the decline, as well as pressure from investment management clients regarding performance. • Decline in Value of Real Estate Securities A general decline in the value of real estate securities (for example, real estate investment trusts, or “REITs”) will have a negative effect on the value of the portfolios that our LaSalle Investment Management Securities business manages, and any securities held in accounts that LaSalle Investment Management manages, and therefore the fees we earn on assets under management. In addition, a general decline in the value of real estate securities could negatively impact the amount of money that investors are willing to allocate to real estate securities and the pace of engaging new investor clients. • Cyclicality in the Real Estate Markets; Lag in Recovery Relative to Broader Markets Cyclicality in the real estate markets may lead to cyclicality in our earnings and significant volatility in our stock price, which in recent years has been highly sensitive to market perception of the global economy generally and our industry specifically. Real estate markets are also thought to “lag” the broader economy. This means that even when underlying economic fundamentals improve in a given market, it may take additional time for these improvements to translate into strength in the real estate markets. This may be exacerbated when, as we believe occurred during the financial crisis, banks delay their resolution of commercial real estate assets whose values are less than their associated loans. • Effect of Changes in Non-Real Estate Markets Changes in non-real estate markets can also affect our business in different ways for different types of investors. For example, strength in the equity markets, which increased markedly during the second half of 2009 and through 2010, can lead certain investors to lower the level of capital allocated to real estate, which in turn can mean that our ability to generate fees from the operation of our investment management business will be negatively impacted. Strength in the equity markets can also negatively impact the performance of real estate as an asset class, which in turn means that the incentive fees relating to the performance of our investment funds will be negatively impacted. For those investors who seek to maintain real estate as a relatively fixed percentage of their portfolios and will periodically rebalance in order to do so, the so-called “denominator effect” can lead to either (1) selling real estate when the equity markets are weak since that can make real estate investments too great of a proportion of their portfolios or (2) buying real estate when equity markets are strong in order to maintain the desired percentage relative to other assets. REAL ESTATE SERVICES AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. We provide a broad range of commercial real estate and investment management services. There is significant competition on an international, regional and local level with respect to many of these services and in commercial real estate services generally. Depending on the service, we face competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers, accounting firms, technology firms, consulting firms, firms providing outsourcing of various types (including technology, and building products) and companies bringing their real estate services in-house (any of which may be a global, regional or local firm). Many of our competitors are local or regional firms. Although they may be substantially smaller in overall size than we are, they may be larger than we are in a specific local or regional market. Some of our competitors have expanded the services they offer in an attempt to gain additional business. Some may be providing outsourced facilities management services in order to sell products to clients (such as HVAC systems) that we do not offer. In some sectors of our business, particularly Corporate Solutions, some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we have. Larger or better-capitalized competitors in those sectors may be able to respond faster to the need for technological changes, price their services more aggressively, compete more effectively for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions more easily, develop innovative products more effectively and generally compete more aggressively for market share. This can also lead to increasing commoditization of the services we provide. New competitors, or alliances among competitors that increase their ability to service clients, could emerge and gain market share, develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services we offer. In order to respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may have to lower our prices or loosen contractual terms (such as liability limitations), which may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profit margins. As we are in a consolidating industry, there is an inherent risk that competitive firms may be more successful than we are at growing through merger and acquisition activity. While we have successfully grown organically and through a series of acquisitions, sourcing and completing acquisitions are complex and sensitive activities. In light of the continuing broad market recovery, we expect increasing acquisition opportunities to emerge and may increase our acquisition activity compared to recent years. We are considering, and will continue to consider, acquisitions that we believe will strengthen our market position, increase our profitability and supplement our organic growth. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue our acquisition activity in the future at the same pace as we have in the past. 15 Table of Contents The recent severe global economic downturn may have increased instability for some of our competitors. This has in some cases led to willingness on their part to engage in aggressive pricing, advertising or hiring practices in order to maintain market shares or client relationships. To the extent this occurs, it increases the competitive risks we face, although it will differ from one competitor to another given their different positions within the marketplace and their different financial situations. We are substantially dependent on long-term client relationships and on revenue received for services under various service agreements. Many of these agreements may be canceled by the client for any reason with as little as 30 to 60 days’ notice, as is typical in the industry. In this competitive market, if we are unable to maintain these relationships or are otherwise unable to retain existing clients and develop new clients, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The recent global economic downturn led to additional pricing pressure from clients as they themselves came under financial pressure, participated in governmental bail-out programs or filed for bankruptcy or insolvency protection, as some significant clients did. Given the value and premium status of our brand, which is one of our most important assets, an inherent risk in our business is that we may fail to successfully differentiate the scope and quality of our service and product offerings from those of our competitors, or that we may fail to sufficiently innovate or develop improved products or services that will be attractive to our clients. Additionally, given the rigors of the competitive marketplace in which we operate, there is the risk that we may not be able to continue to find ways to operate more sustainably and more cost-effectively, including by achieving economies of scale, or that we will be limited in our ability to further reduce the costs required to operate on a globally coordinated platform. The dynamic nature of the internet and social media, which have substantially increased the availability and transparency of information, could devalue the information that we gather and disseminate as part of our business model and may harm certain aspects of our brokerage business in the event that principles of transactions prefer to transact directly with each other. THE SEASONALITY OF OUR REAL ESTATE SERVICES BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO RISKS. Within our Real Estate Services business, our revenue and profits have historically tended to be significantly higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year than in the first two quarters. This is a result of a general focus in the real estate industry on completing or documenting transactions by calendar-year-end and because certain expenses are constant through the year. Historically, we have reported an operating loss or a relatively small profit in the first quarter and then increasingly larger profits during each of the following three quarters, excluding the recognition of investment-generated performance fees and co-investment equity gains (both of which can be particularly unpredictable). The seasonality of our business makes it difficult to determine during the course of the year whether planned results will be achieved, and thus to adjust to changes in expectations. Additionally, negative economic or other conditions that arise at a time when they impact performance in the fourth quarter, such as the particular timing of when larger transactions close or changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, may have a more significant impact than if they occurred earlier in the year. To the extent we are not able to identify and adjust for changes in expectations or we are confronted with negative conditions that impact inordinately on the fourth quarter of a year, this could have a material adverse effect. As a result of growth in our property management and integrated facilities management businesses and other services related to the growth of outsourcing of corporate real estate services, there has been somewhat less seasonality in our revenue and profits during the past few years than there was historically, but we believe that some level of seasonality will always be inherent in our industry and outside of our control. Although we continued to experience a level of seasonality in 2010 that was similar to previous years, we are unable to predict whether the aftermath of the global economic downturn, which led to unprecedented market disruptions and levels of government intervention, will result in any overall permanent changes to the marketplace that will have an effect on the historical seasonality of our business in 2011 and beyond. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC INSTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY: PROTECTIONISM; TERRORIST ACTIVITIES; HEALTH EPIDEMICS. We operate in approximately 60 countries with varying degrees of political and economic stability and transparency. For example, certain Middle Eastern, Asian, Eastern European and South American countries have experienced serious political and economic instability within the past few years, and such instability will likely continue to arise from time to time in countries in which we have operations. It is difficult for us to predict where or when a significant change in the political leadership or regime within a given country may occur, or what the implications of such a change will be on our operations given that legislative, tax and business environments can be altered quickly and dramatically. For example, the recent political changes in Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries have significantly disrupted business activity in these countries. Also, in 2009 and 2010 there was an unusual level of legislative and regulatory activity in the United States and certain countries in Europe, resulting in changes to financial, tax, healthcare, governance and other laws that may directly affect our business and continue to evolve. Accordingly, our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course and our willingness to commit new resources or investments may be affected or disrupted in one way or another, with corresponding reductions in revenue, increases in taxes and more aggressive taxation policies, increases in other expenses (such as with respect to employee healthcare), restrictions on repatriating funds, difficulties in recruiting staff or other material adverse effects. 16 Table of Contents In the event that governments engage in protectionist policies which favor local firms over foreign firms or which restrict cross-border capital flows, our ability to utilize and benefit from our global platform and integrated business model could be adversely affected. The global downturn also significantly added to the deficit spending of certain governments in countries where we do business and has called into question the creditworthiness of some countries, as the result of which it is difficult to predict what the consequences to our business may be from those situations. In addition, terrorist activities have escalated in recent years and at times have affected cities in which we operate. The 2008 terrorist attack in Mumbai, India, where we have a presence, is an example. To the extent that similar terrorist activities continue to occur, they may adversely affect our business because they tend to target the same type of high-profile urban areas in which we do business. Health epidemics that affect the general conduct of business in one or more urban areas (including as the result of travel restrictions and the inability to conduct face-to-face meetings), such as occurred in the past from SARS and influenza or may occur in the future from other types of outbreak, can also adversely affect the volume of business transactions, real estate markets and the cost of operating real estate or providing real estate services. The increasing globalization by our multi-national clients creates pressure to expand our own geographical reach into less developed countries, which tends to exacerbate the above risks. INFRASTRUCTURE DISRUPTIONS. Our ability to conduct a global business may be adversely impacted by disruptions to the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which they are located. This may include disruptions involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Jones Lang LaSalle or third parties with which we conduct business. It may also include disruptions as the result of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods, whether as the result of climate change or otherwise, political instability, general labor strikes or turmoil or terrorist attacks. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events affecting only the buildings in which we operate (such as fires), or as a result of events with a broader impact on the cities where those buildings are located (including, potentially, the longer-term effects of global climate change). Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including Chicago, London, Singapore and Sydney, work in close proximity to each other in one or more buildings. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. The infrastructure disruptions we describe above may also disrupt our ability to manage real estate for clients or may adversely affect the value of real estate investments we make on behalf of clients. The buildings we manage for clients, which include some of the world’s largest office properties and retail centers, are used by numerous people daily. As a result, fires, earthquakes, floods, other natural disasters, defects and terrorist attacks can result in significant loss of life, and, to the extent we are held to have been negligent in connection with our management of the affected properties, we could incur significant financial liabilities and reputational harm. The occurrence of natural disasters and terrorist attacks can also significantly increase the availability and/or cost of commercial insurance policies covering real estate, both for our own business and for those clients whose properties we manage and who may purchase their insurance through the insurance buying programs we make available to them. There can be no assurance that the disaster recovery and crisis management procedures we employ will suffice in any particular situation to avoid a significant loss. Given that our staff is increasingly mobile and less reliant on physical presence in a Company office, our disaster recovery plans increasingly rely on the availability of the Internet and mobile phone technology, so the disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation. Additionally, our ability to foresee or mitigate the potential consequences to managed properties, and real estate generally, from the effects of climate change, may be limited. CIVIL AND REGULATORY CLAIMS; LITIGATING DISPUTES IN DIFFERENT JURISDICTIONS. Substantial civil legal liability or a significant regulatory action against our Firm could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Many legal systems, including in the United States, have fairly significant barriers against recovering legal fees from plaintiffs that file cases we consider frivolous, so the costs to us of defending such cases can be substantial even if we prevail. While we maintain commercial insurance in an amount we believe is appropriate, we also maintain a significant level of self-insurance for the liabilities we may incur. Although we place our commercial insurance with only highly-rated companies, the value of otherwise valid claims we hold under insurance policies may become uncollectible due to the insolvency of the applicable insurance company. We believe they strengthened during 2010, but the global economic downturn made insurance companies less stable financially and has therefore increased the risk of their creditworthiness to us to some degree as some of the most prominent insurers have experienced downgrades in their financial ratings. 17 Table of Contents The quality of ratings provided by outside rating agencies has also generally been called into question in connection with the global financial crisis, which may increase the risk of relying on these ratings when we conduct due diligence on the credit-quality of insurance companies. The global nature of our business means that there are fewer insurance companies that can adequately service our account, so we do not have a significant number of alternative providers in case we are unable to continue to place coverage with one of our existing insurers. Additionally, the claims we have can be complex and insurance companies can prove difficult or bureaucratic in resolving claims, which may result in payments to us being delayed or reduced or that we must litigate in order to enforce an insurance policy claim. Any disputes we have with third parties, or any government regulatory matters, generally must be adjudicated within the jurisdiction in which the dispute arose. Therefore, our ability to resolve our disputes successfully depends on the local laws that apply and the operation of the local judicial system, the timeliness, quality, transparency, integrity and sophistication of which varies widely from one jurisdiction to the next. Our geographic diversity therefore may expose us to disputes in certain jurisdictions that could be challenging to resolve efficiently and/or effectively, particularly as there appears to be a tendency toward more litigation in emerging markets, where the rule of law is less reliable and legal systems are less mature and transparent. It also may be more difficult to collect receivables from clients who do not pay their bills in certain jurisdictions, since resorting to the judicial system in certain countries may not be an effective alternative given the delays and costs involved. Internal Operational Risk Factors CONCENTRATIONS OF BUSINESS WITH CORPORATE AND INVESTOR CLIENTS CAUSES INCREASED CREDIT RISK AND GREATER IMPACT FROM THE LOSS OF CERTAIN CLIENTS. While our client base remains highly diversified across industries and geographies, we do value the expansion of business relationships with individual corporate clients and institutional investors because of the increased efficiency and economics (both to our clients and our firm) that can result from developing repeat business from the same client and from performing an increasingly broad range of services for the same client. Having increasingly large and concentrated clients also can lead to greater or more concentrated risks of loss if, among other possibilities, such a client (1) experiences its own financial problems, which can lead to larger individual credit risks, (2) becomes bankrupt or insolvent, which can lead to our failure to be paid for services we have previously provided or funds we have previously advanced, (3) decides to reduce its operations or its real estate facilities, (4) makes a change in its real estate strategy, such as no longer outsourcing its real estate operations, (5) decides to change its providers of real estate services or (6) merges with another corporation or otherwise undergoes a change of control, which may result in new management taking over with a different real estate philosophy or in different relationships with other real estate providers. In the case of LaSalle Investment Management, concentration of investor clients can lead to fewer sources of investment capital, which can negatively affect assets under management in case a higher-volume client withdraws its funds or does not re-invest them. Additionally, increasingly large clients may, and sometimes do, attempt to leverage the extent of their relationships with us during the course of contract negotiations, in connection with the payment of fees or in connection with disputes or potential litigation. The global economic downturn increased these risks to our organization as it created significant financial distress (which in some cases led to bankruptcy or insolvency) for many organizations, including some that are clients of ours. Some of our largest clients include companies in the financial services industry, such as commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies, and companies in the auto industry, which were significantly impacted by the global economic downturn and have not necessarily rebounded to pre-crisis levels of financial security. CONTRACTUAL LIABILITIES AS PRINCIPAL AND FOR WARRANTED PRICING. We may, on behalf of our clients, hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction, engineering and various other services for properties we are managing or developing on behalf of clients. Depending upon the terms of our contracts with clients, which, for example, may place us in the position of a principal rather than an agent, or responsibilities we assume or are legally deemed to have assumed in the course of a client engagement (whether or not memorialized in a contract), we may be subjected to, or become liable for, claims for construction defects, negligent performance of work or other similar actions by third parties we do not control. Adverse outcomes of property management disputes or litigation could negatively impact our business, operating results and/or financial condition, particularly if we have not limited in our contracts the extent of damages to which we may be liable for the consequences of our actions, or if our liabilities exceed the amounts of the commercial third-party insurance that we carry. Moreover, our clients may seek to hold us accountable for the actions of contractors because of our role as property manager even if we have technically disclaimed liability as a legal matter, in which case we may be pressured to participate in a financial settlement for purposes of preserving the client relationship. Acting as a principal may also mean that we pay a contractor before we have been reimbursed by the client, which exposes us to additional risks of collection from the client in the event of an intervening bankruptcy or insolvency of the client. The reverse can occur as well, where a contractor we have paid files bankruptcy or commits fraud with the funds before completing a project for which we have paid it in part or in full. As part of our project management business, we may enter into agreements with clients that provide for a warranted or guaranteed cost for a project that we manage. In these situations, we are responsible for managing the various other contractors required for a project, including 18 Table of Contents general contractors, in order to ensure that the cost of a project does not exceed the contract price and that the project is completed on time. In the event that one of the other contractors on the project does not or cannot perform as a result of bankruptcy or for some other reason, we may be responsible for any cost overruns as well as the consequences for late delivery. During the global economic downturn, we experienced credit-related problems at a higher level than in the past with vendors and contractors due to their increased financial instability. PERFORMANCE AND FIDUCIARY OBLIGATIONS UNDER CLIENT CONTRACTS; REVENUE RECOGNITION; SCOPE CREEP; RISING COST OF INSURANCE RESULTING FROM NEGLIGENCE CLAIMS. We generally provide services to our clients under contracts, and in certain cases we are subject to fiduciary obligations. These relate to, among other matters, the decisions we make on behalf of a client with respect to managing assets on its behalf or purchasing products or services from third parties or other divisions within our Firm. Our services may involve handling substantial amounts of client funds in connection with managing their properties. They may also involve complicated and high-profile transactions which involve significant amounts of money. We face legal and reputational risks in the event we do not perform, or are perceived to have not performed, under those contracts or in accordance with those obligations, or in the event we are negligent in the handling of client funds or in the way in which we have delivered our professional services. We have certain business lines, such as valuations and lease administration, where the size of the transactions we handle are much greater than the fees we generate from them. As a result, the consequences of errors that lead to damages can be disproportionately large in the event our contractual protections or our insurance coverage are inadequate to protect us fully. The precautions we take to prevent these types of occurrences, which represent a significant commitment of corporate resources, may nevertheless be ineffective in certain cases. Unexpected costs or delays could make our client contracts or engagements less profitable than anticipated. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could have an adverse effect on profit margins. In the event we perform services for clients without executing sufficient contractual documentation, we may be unable to realize our full compensation potential or recognize revenue for accounting purposes, and we may not be able to effectively limit our liability in the event of client disputes. If we perform services for clients that are beyond, or different from, what were contemplated in contracts (known as “scope creep”), we may not be fully reimbursed for the services provided, or our potential liability in the case of a negligence claim may not have been as limited as it normally would have been or may be unclear. If we make a large insurance claim on our professional indemnity policy due to a situation involving our negligence, we would expect subsequent premiums to increase materially, the size of deductibles we are required to retain may increase substantially and the availability of future coverage could be negatively impacted. CO-INVESTMENT, INVESTMENT, MERCHANT BANKING AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT BANKING ACTIVITIES SUBJECT US TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT RISKS AND POTENTIAL LIABILITIES. An important part of our investment strategy includes investing in real estate, both individually and along with our investment management clients. In order to remain competitive with well-capitalized financial services firms, we also may make merchant banking investments for which we may use Firm capital to acquire properties before the related investment management funds have been established or investment commitments have been received from third-party clients. A strategy that we have not pursued vigorously due to the disruptions in the markets but that still has potential is to further engage in certain real estate investment banking activities in which we, either solely or with one or more joint venture partners, would employ capital to assist our clients in maximizing the value of their real estate. For example, we might acquire a property from a client that wishes to dispose of it within a certain time frame, after which we would market it for sale as the principal and therefore assume any related market risk. We also operate business lines that have as part of their strategy the acquisition, development, management and sale of real estate. Investing in any of these types of situations exposes us to a number of risks. Although our investment activities were substantially curtailed during 2008 through 2010 as the result of the worldwide credit crisis and economic downturn, we do anticipate that these strategies will ultimately re-emerge assuming that markets remain stabilized. Investing in real estate for the above reasons poses the following risks: • We may lose some or all of the capital that we invest if the investments under perform. Real estate investments can under perform as the result of many factors outside of our control, including the general reduction in asset values within a particular geography or asset class. Starting in 2007 and continuing through 2009, for example, real estate prices in many markets throughout the world declined generally as the result of the significant tightening of the credit markets and the effects of recessionary economies and significant unemployment. In 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $51 million, representing our equity share of impairment charges against individual assets in which we hold co-investments. In 2010, we recognized a lower amount of impairment charges, $14 million, as markets improved from their lows. 19 Table of Contents • We will have fluctuations in earnings and cash flow as we recognize gains or losses, and receive cash, upon the disposition of investments, the timing of which is geared toward the benefit of our clients. • We generally hold our investments in real estate through subsidiaries with limited liability; however, in certain circumstances, it is possible that this limited exposure may be expanded in the future based on, among other things, changes in applicable laws or the application of existing or new laws. To the extent this occurs, our liability could exceed the amount we have invested. • We make co-investments in real estate in many countries, and this presents risks as described above in “External Market Risk Factors.” This may include changes to tax treaties, tax policy, foreign investment policy or other local legislative changes that may adversely affect the performance of our co-investments. The global economic downturn increased the chances of significant changes in government policies generally, the effects of which are inherently difficult to predict. The financial pressures on government entities that have resulted from weak economies and deficit spending may lead taxing authorities to more aggressively pursue taxes and question tax strategies and positions. • We generally make co-investments in the local currency of the country in which the investment asset exists. We will therefore be subject to the risks described below under “Currency Restrictions and Exchange Rate Fluctuations.” CORPORATE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. All providers of professional services to clients, including our Firm, must manage potential conflicts of interest. This occurs principally where the primary duty of loyalty we owe to one client may potentially be weakened or compromised by a relationship we also maintain with another client or third party. Corporate conflicts of interest arise in the context of the services we provide as a firm to our different clients. Personal conflicts of interest on the part of our employees are separately considered as issues within the context of our Code of Business Ethics. The failure or inability of the Firm to identify, disclose and resolve potential conflicts of interest in a significant situation could have a material adverse effect. An example of a potential conflict of interest situation is that in the ordinary course of its business, LaSalle Investment Management hires property managers for the investment properties it holds on behalf of clients. In that case, it may hire Jones Lang LaSalle to provide such services or it may hire a firm that is a competitor of Jones Lang LaSalle. In the event it retains Jones Lang LaSalle, it may appear to have a conflict of interest with respect to the selection. As a fiduciary with respect to its client funds, LaSalle Investment Management resolves such potential conflicts by acting independently of Jones Lang LaSalle and following certain internal procedures designed to select the service provider that can best represent the interests of the investment management client or fund. Another example is that in certain countries, based upon applicable regulations and local market dynamics, we have established joint ventures or other arrangements with insurance brokers through which insurance coverage is offered to clients, tenants in buildings we manage and vendors to those buildings. In any case, although we fully disclose our arrangements and do not require anyone to use the insurance services, Jones Lang LaSalle has a financial interest in the placement of insurance with such third parties and therefore we may be deemed to have certain conflicts of interest. After reductions in the market values of the underlying properties, firms engaged in the business of providing valuations are inherently subject to a higher risk of claims with respect to conflicts of interest based on the circumstances of valuations they previously issued. Regardless of the ultimate merits of these claims, the allegations themselves can cause reputational damage and can be expensive to defend in terms of counsel fees and otherwise. CLIENT AND VENDOR DUE DILIGENCE. There are circumstances where the conduct or identity of our clients could cause us reputational damage or financial harm or could lead to our non-compliance with certain laws. An example would be the attempt by a client to “launder” funds through its relationship with us, namely to disguise the illegal source of funds that are put into otherwise legitimate real estate investments. Another example is our inadvertently doing business with a client that has been listed on one of the “prohibited persons” lists now issued by many governments around the world. Similar problems can arise with respect to the vendors we hire to provide services or products to us of for our clients. In the normal course of business, we spend significant amounts in order to purchase goods and services for the properties we manage on behalf of clients. Our efforts to evaluate clients and vendors before doing business with them in order not to do business with a prohibited party and to avoid attempts to launder money or otherwise to exploit their relationship with us may not be successful in all situations since compliance for a business such as ours is very complex and also since we take a risk-based approach to the procedures we have employed. Additionally, it is not always possible to accurately determine the ultimate owners or control persons within our clients’ organizations or other entities with which we do business, particularly if they are actively attempting to hide such information from regulatory authorities. We may therefore unknowingly be doing business with entities that are otherwise involved in illegal activities that do not involve us or that are ultimately controlled by persons with whom engaging in business has been prohibited by applicable regulatory authorities. BURDEN OF COMPLYING WITH MULTIPLE AND POTENTIALLY CONFLICTING LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND DEALING WITH CHANGES IN LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS. We face a broad range of legal and regulatory environments in the countries in which we do business. Coordinating our activities to deal with these requirements presents significant challenges. 20 Table of Contents For example, in the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) regulates the conduct of investment businesses and the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) regulates the profession of Chartered Surveyors, which is the professional qualification required for certain of the services we provide in the United Kingdom, through upholding standards of competence and conduct. As another example, activities associated with raising capital, offering investment funds and investment sales are regulated in the United States by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in other countries by similar securities regulatory authorities. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to various corporate governance and other requirements established by statute, pursuant to SEC regulations and under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. During the past decade, the Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank legislative initiatives in the United States have added some significant requirements to various aspects of our governance. Additionally, changes in legal and regulatory requirements can impact our ability to engage in business in certain jurisdictions or increase the cost of doing so. The legal requirements of U.S. statutes may also conflict with local legal requirements in a particular country, as, for example, when anonymous hotlines required under U.S. law were construed to conflict in part with French privacy laws. The jurisdictional reach of laws may be unclear as well, as when laws in one country purport to regulate the behavior of affiliated corporations within our group that are operating in other countries. Identifying the regulations with which we must comply, and then complying with them is complex. We may not be successful in complying regulations in all situations, as the result of which we could be subject to regulatory actions and fines for non-compliance. The global economic crisis has resulted in an unusual level of government and legislative activities, which we expect will continue into the future and which exacerbates these risks. We are also seeing increasing levels of labor regulation in emerging markets, such as China, which affect our property management business. Changes in governments or majority political parties may result in significant changes in enforcement priorities with respect to employment, health and safety, tax, securities disclosure and other regulations, which in turn could negatively affect our business. LICENSING AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS. The brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions, property management, construction, mobile engineering, conducting valuations, trading in securities for clients and the operation of the investment advisory business, among other business lines, require us to maintain licenses in various jurisdictions in which we operate and to comply with particular regulations. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct regulated activities without a license or in contravention of applicable regulations, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions. We may also have a given license suspended or revoked. Our acquisition activity increases these risks because we must successfully transfer licenses of the acquired entities and their staff, as appropriate. Licensing requirements may also preclude us from engaging in certain types of transactions or change the way in which we conduct business or the cost of doing so. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions and the number of countries in which we operate or invest have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from noncompliance have increased. To the extent we expand our service offerings further into more heavily regulated sectors, such as healthcare, environmental, pharmaceutical and industrial, the regulatory framework within which we operate may get more complicated and the consequences of noncompliance more serious. Highly publicized accounting and investment management frauds that occurred in various businesses and countries during the financial crisis may result in significant changes in regulations that may affect our investment management business. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to our business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, also may change in ways that materially increase the costs of compliance. Particularly in emerging markets, there can be relatively less transparency around the standards and conditions under which licenses are granted, maintained or renewed. It also may be difficult to defend against the arbitrary revocation of a license in a jurisdiction where the rule of law is less well developed. As a licensed real estate service provider and advisor in various jurisdictions, we and our licensed employees may be subject to various due diligence, disclosure, standard-of-care, anti-money laundering and other obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties we brokered or managed or who invested in our funds. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales or other services claiming that we did not fulfill our obligations as a service provider or broker. This may include claims with respect to conflicts of interests where we are acting, or are perceived to be acting, for two or more clients with potentially contrary interests. COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. If any of our financial, accounting, human resources or other data processing, e-mail, client accounting, funds processing or electronic information management systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of client data, loss of employee data, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including disruptions of electrical or communications services, disruptions caused by natural disasters, political instability, terrorist attacks, sabotage, computer viruses or problems with the Internet, or our inability to occupy one or more of our office buildings. As we outsource significant portions of our IT functions to third-party providers, we bear the risk of having somewhat less direct control over the manner and quality of performance than we would if done by our own employees. 21 Table of Contents The development of new software systems used to operate one or more aspects of our business, particularly on a customized basis or in order to coordinate or consolidate financial, human resources or other types of infrastructure data reporting, client accounting or funds processing is complicated. Additionally, the effort may result in costs that we cannot recoup in the event of the failure to complete a planned software development. A new software system that has defects may cause reputational issues and client or employee dissatisfaction, with business lost as a result. The acquisition or development of software systems is often dependent to one degree or another on the quality, ability and/or financial stability of one or more third-party vendors, over which we may not have control beyond the rights we negotiate in our contracts. Different privacy policies from one country to the next (or across a region such as the European Union) may restrict our ability to share or collect data on a global basis, and this may limit the utility of otherwise available technology. The Firm has been implementing significant new financial, human resources, client relationship management, payables processing, securities management and trading and intranet software systems on a worldwide basis, and is in the process of transitioning various significant processes to these new systems. This implementation is complex and involves continuously evolving processes. If the Firm does not implement these new systems effectively, or if any of the new systems does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of the Firm’s financial reporting or internal controls could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is also dependent, in part, on our ability to deliver to our clients the efficiencies and convenience that technology affords. The effort to gain technological expertise and develop or acquire new technologies requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors do, we could lose market share. We are increasingly dependent on the Internet and on intranet technology to disseminate critical business information publicly and also to our employees internally. In the event of technology failure, or our inability to maintain robust platforms, we risk competitive disadvantage. RISKS INHERENT IN MAKING ACQUISITIONS. While we made some significant hires of teams of people to enhance our competitive position in certain markets and businesses in 2010, we did not make any material new acquisitions during 2009 or 2010 due to the significant market disruptions and uncertainties that all businesses experienced. However, we made a number of acquisitions before 2009 and anticipate that we may make acquisitions of businesses or business lines in the future. As confidence has returned to the markets after the financial crisis, we believe that acquisition opportunities will increase and that our industry will continue to consolidate. Acquisitions subject us to a number of significant risks, any of which may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits or synergies of the acquisition. The integration of companies is a complex and time-consuming process that could significantly disrupt the businesses of Jones Lang LaSalle and the acquired company. The challenges involved in integration and realizing the benefits of an acquisition include: • Diversion of management attention and financial resources from existing operations; • Difficulties in integrating cultures, compensation structures, operations, existing contracts, accounting processes and methodologies, and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • Inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; • Inability to retain clients of the acquired business; • Exposure to legal, environmental, employment, ethical and other types of claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition, including those that may not have been adequately identified during the pre-acquisition due diligence investigation or those which the legal documentation associated with the transaction did not successfully terminate or transfer; • Addition of business lines in which we have not previously engaged (for example, general contractor services for “ground-up” construction development projects); • Inability to effectively integrate the acquired business and its employees, or to successfully integrate merged operations in a timely or complete manner; and • Potential impairment of intangible assets, which could adversely affect our reported results. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating our operations with those of another company or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could have a material adverse effect. Additionally, the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the consideration payable for the acquisition or other resources to another opportunity. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES AND REGULATIONS; CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS. The Firm’s operations are affected by federal, state and/or local environmental laws in the countries in which we maintain office space for our own operations and where we manage properties for clients. We may face liability with respect to environmental issues occurring at properties that we manage or occupy, or in which we invest. Various laws and regulations restrict the levels of certain substances that may be discharged into the environment by properties or they may impose liability on current or previous real estate owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. We may face costs or liabilities under these laws as a result of our role as an on-site property manager or a manager of construction projects. Our risks for such liabilities may increase as we 22 Table of Contents expand our services to include more industrial and/or manufacturing facilities than has been the case in the past. In addition, we may face liability if such laws are applied to expand our limited liability with respect to our co-investments in real estate as discussed above. Within our own operation, we face additional costs from rising fuel prices which make it more expensive to power our corporate offices. Given that the Firm’s own operations are generally conducted within leased office building space, we do not currently anticipate that regulations restricting the emissions of “greenhouse gases,” or taxes that may be imposed on their release, would result in material costs or capital expenditures. However, we cannot be certain about the extent to which such regulations will develop as there are higher levels of understanding and commitments by different governments around the world regarding the risks of climate change and how they should be mitigated. Regulations relating to climate change may affect the scope of services we provide to clients in their managed properties, but clients would typically bear any additional costs of doing so under their contracts with us. In any event, we anticipate that the burden and cost to the Firm of climate change disclosure and carbon reporting will increase over time. Future legislation that requires specific performance levels for building operations could make non-compliant buildings obsolete, which could materially affect investments in properties we have made on behalf of clients, including those in which we may have co-invested. ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN SATISFACTORY INTERNAL FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. If we are not able to continue to successfully implement the requirements of Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our reputation, financial results and the market price of our stock could suffer. Our accounting can be complex and requires that management make judgments with respect to revenue recognition, acquisitions and other aspects of our business. While we believe that we have adequate internal financial reporting control procedures in place, we may be exposed to potential risks from this legislation, which requires companies to evaluate their internal controls and have their controls attested to by their independent auditors on an annual basis. We have evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting as required for purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to receive a positive attestation in future years, particularly since standards continue to evolve and are not necessarily being applied consistently from one auditing firm to another. If we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future that we cannot remediate in a timely fashion, we may be unable to receive a positive attestation at some time in the future from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting. ABILITY TO PROTECT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY; INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD-PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to identify and protect proprietary information and other intellectual property such as our service marks, client lists and information, and business methods. Existing laws of some countries in which we provide or intend to provide services, or the extent to which their laws are actually enforced, may offer only limited protections of our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements, and on patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to detect unauthorized use (for example, by former employees) or take appropriate or timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our business. These risks may have been enhanced due to increased employee redundancies that result from the economic downturn. We cannot be sure that the intellectual property that we may use in the course of operating our business or the services we offer to clients do not infringe on the rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services. Confidential intellectual property is increasingly stored or carried on mobile devices, such as laptop computers, which makes inadvertent disclosure more of a risk in the event the mobile devices are lost or stolen and the information has not been adequately safeguarded or encrypted. This also makes it easier for someone with access to our systems, or someone who gains unauthorized access, to steal information and use it to the disadvantage of our firm or our people. Advances in technology, which permit increasingly large amounts of information on smaller devices, tend to exacerbate these risks. Financial Risk Factors WE MAY HAVE INDEBTEDNESS WITH FIXED OR VARIABLE INTEREST RATES AND CERTAIN COVENANTS WITH WHICH WE MUST COMPLY. We currently have the ability to borrow, from a syndicate of lenders, up to $1.1 billion on an unsecured revolving credit facility and a term loan agreement (together the “Facilities”), with capacity to borrow up to an additional $50 million under local overdraft facilities. At December 31, 2010, we had $198 million of unsecured indebtedness from the Facilities, all from our term loan facility, and $28 million outstanding on local overdraft facilities. Our average outstanding borrowings under the Facilities were $325 million during 2010 at an effective interest rate of 3.7%. Our outstanding borrowings fluctuate during the year primarily due to varying working capital requirements. For example, payment of annual incentive compensation represents a significant working capital requirement commanding increased borrowings in the first half of the year, while historically the Firm’s seasonal earnings pattern provides more cash flow in the second half of the year. To the extent we continue our acquisition activities in the future, the level of our indebtedness could increase materially if we use the Facilities to fund such purchases. 23 Table of Contents The terms of the Facilities contain a number of covenants that could restrict our flexibility to finance future operations or capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. The debt covenants have the effect of limiting our ability, among other things, to: • Encumber or dispose of assets; • Incur significant additional indebtedness; • Make significant investments; • Engage in significant acquisitions. In addition, the Facilities require that we comply with various financial covenants, including with respect to minimum net worth, leverage and cash interest coverage. If we are unable to make required payments under the Facilities or if we breach any of the covenants, we will be in default under the terms of the Facilities. A default under the Facilities could cause acceleration of repayment of outstanding amounts as well as defaults under other existing and future debt obligations. VOLATILITY IN LASALLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FEE REVENUE. LaSalle Investment Management’s portfolio is of sufficient size to periodically generate large incentive fees and equity losses and gains that significantly influence our earnings and the changes in earnings from one year to the next. Volatility in this component of our earnings is inevitable due to the nature of this aspect of our business, and the amount of incentive fees or equity gains or losses we may recognize in future quarters is inherently unpredictable and relates to market dynamics in effect at the time. The speed with which the real estate markets worldwide turned from positive to negative starting in 2007 and continuing through 2009 is a further indication of the market volatility to which we are subject and over which we have no control. In the case of our commingled funds, underlying market conditions, particular decisions regarding the acquisition and disposition of fund assets, and the specifics of the client mandate will determine the timing and size of incentive fees from one fund to another. For separate accounts, where asset management is ongoing, we also may earn incentive fees at periodic agreed-upon measurement dates, and they may be related to performance relative to specified real-estate industry benchmarks and/or absolute return benchmarks. While LaSalle Investment Management has focused over the past several years on developing more predictable annuity-type revenue, incentive fees should continue to be an important part of our revenue and earnings once real estate markets recover from the current significant downturn. As a result, the volatility described above should be expected to continue. For example, in 2006, we recognized one very significant incentive fee from the long-term performance of a separate account where we had ongoing portfolio management. This incentive fee was payable only once every four years and was calculated based on the account’s performance relative to a market index. Given the extraordinary fall in asset prices that many markets experienced starting in 2007, our incentive fees fell significantly through 2010. The decline may be partially offset by our ability to take advantage of lower asset prices as we make new investments, although it is inherently difficult to predict with any confidence how all of these complicated factors will ultimately affect our future results. Where incentive fees on a given transaction or portfolio are particularly large, certain clients have attempted to renegotiate fees even though contractually obligated to pay them, and we expect this to occur from time to time in the future. Our efforts to collect our fees in these situations may lead to significant legal fees and/or significant delays in collection due to extended negotiations, arbitration or litigation. They may also result in either negotiated reductions in fees that take into account the future value of the relationship or loss of the client. VOLATILITY IN HOTELS AND CAPITAL MARKETS FEES. We have business lines other than LaSalle Investment Management that also generate fees based on the timing, size and pricing of closed transactions and these fees may significantly contribute to our earnings and to changes in earnings from one quarter or year to the next. For example, in 2007 our Hotels business generated one very substantial fee from the sale of a large portfolio of hotels on behalf of a particular client. Volatility in this component of our earnings is inevitable due to the nature of these businesses and the amount of the fees we will recognize in future quarters is inherently unpredictable. LASALLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT BANKING AND CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS. Although not highly leveraged by general industry standards, the investment funds that LaSalle Investment Management operates in the ordinary course of business borrow money from a variety of institutional lenders. The loans typically are secured by liens on specific investment properties but are otherwise non-recourse. During the global financial crisis, the values of specific properties were in some cases less than the amount of the outstanding loan on the property, which gave the lender the right to foreclose on the property, in which case the equity invested by the fund would be without value. These situations were typically addressed on a case-by-case basis and, because we generally maintain good relationships with our lenders, were generally successfully renegotiated so that we remained in control of substantially all fund properties, which has given additional time for values to recover. Some clients of LaSalle Investment Management that had open commitments to provide additional investments and that came under stress due to the financial downturn became less able financially to honor their commitments and sought to renegotiate the terms of their commitments or the fees that they pay. These activities did not result in materially adverse consequences to LaSalle Investment Management or any of its funds. 24 Table of Contents Within a difficult economic environment, raising new funds takes longer and may be less successful as current and prospective clients may be less able or willing to commit new funds to real estate investments, which are inherently less liquid than many competing investments. Additionally, certain clients may decide to manage all or a portion of their real estate investments with internal resources rather than hiring outside investment managers. CURRENCY RESTRICTIONS AND EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. We produce positive flows of cash in various countries and currencies that can be most effectively used to fund operations in other countries or to repay our indebtedness, which is currently primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We face restrictions in certain countries that limit or prevent the transfer of funds to other countries or the exchange of the local currency to other currencies. We also face risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may lead to a decline in the value of the funds produced in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, although we operate globally, we report our results in U.S. dollars, and thus our reported results may be positively or negatively impacted by the strengthening or weakening of currencies against the U.S. dollar. As an example, the euro and the pound sterling, each a currency used in a significant portion of our operations, have fluctuated significantly in recent years. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 45% of our revenue was attributable to operations with U.S. dollars as their functional currency, and 55% was attributable to operations having other functional currencies. In addition to the potential negative impact on reported earnings, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of the reported results of operations. We are authorized to use currency-hedging instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts, purchased currency options and borrowings in foreign currency. There can be no assurance that such hedging will be economically effective. We do not use hedging instruments for speculative purposes. As currency forward and option contracts are generally conducted off-exchange or over-the-counter (OTC), many of the safeguards accorded to participants on organized exchanges, such as the performance guarantee of an exchange clearing house, are generally unavailable in connection with OTC transactions. In addition, there can be no guarantee that the counterparty will fulfill its obligations under the contractual agreement, especially in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of the counterparty, which would effectively leave us unhedged. The following table sets forth the revenue derived from our most significant currencies on a revenue basis ($ in millions): 2010 2009 United States dollar $ 1,321.4 $ 1,128.6 Euro 376.4 373.5 British pound 325.1 260.0 Australian dollar 208.2 163.5 Singapore dollar 106.0 118.7 Japanese yen 115.9 102.9 Hong Kong dollar 81.7 75.6 Other currencies 390.9 257.9 $ 2,925.6 $ 2,480.7 In 2009 and 2010, many of the most significant governments worldwide enacted economic stimulus measures of various types. It is inherently difficult to predict how and when these measures will affect the relative values of currencies and in any event we anticipate significant continuing volatility in currency exchange rates. GREATER DIFFICULTY IN COLLECTING ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES AND REGIONS. We face challenges in our ability to efficiently and/or effectively collect accounts receivable in certain countries and regions. For example, various countries have underdeveloped insolvency laws, and clients often are slow to pay. In some countries, clients typically tend to delay payments, reflecting a different business culture over which we do not necessarily have any control. Less-developed countries may have very lengthy or difficult judicial processes that can make collections through the court system more problematic than they would otherwise be. Additionally, the increasing weakness in the global economy put additional financial stress on clients and landlords, who sometimes are the parties that pay our commissions where we have placed a tenant representation client into their buildings. This in turn has negatively impacted our ability to collect our receivables fully or in a timely manner, although the issue abated during 2010 as financial situations stabilized. We cannot be sure that the procedures we use to identify and rectify slowly paid receivables, and to protect ourselves against the insolvencies or bankruptcies of clients, landlords and other third parties with which we do business, which may involve placing liens on properties or litigating, will be effective in all cases. 25 Table of Contents INCREASING FINANCIAL RISK OF COUNTERPARTIES, INCLUDING REFINANCING RISK. The unprecedented disruptions and dynamic changes in the financial markets, and particularly insofar as they have led to major changes in the status and creditworthiness of some of the world’s largest banks, investment banks and insurance companies, among others, have generally increased the counterparty risk to us from a financial standpoint, including with respect to: • obtaining new credit commitments from lenders, • refinancing credit commitments or loans that have terminated or matured according to their terms, including funds sponsored by our investment management subsidiary which use leverage in the ordinary course of their investment activities; • placing insurance; • engaging in hedging transactions; and • maintaining cash deposits or other investments, both our own and those we hold for the benefit of clients, which are generally much larger than the maximum amount of government-sponsored deposit insurance in effect for a particular account. While those risks likely remained higher during 2010 than they were historically, we also believe they moderated as the financial system recovered. We generally attempt to conduct business with only the highest quality and most well-known counterparties, but there can be no assurance (1) that our efforts to evaluate their creditworthiness will be effective in all cases (particularly as the quality of credit ratings provided by the nationally recognized rating agencies has been called into question), (2) that we will always be able to obtain the full benefit of the financial commitments made to us by lenders, insurance companies, hedging counterparties or other organizations with which we do business or (3) that we will always be able to refinance existing indebtedness (or commitments to provide indebtedness) which has matured by its terms, including funds sponsored by our investment management subsidiary. Additionally, the ability of government regulatory authorities to adequately monitor and regulate banks, investment banks, securities firms and insurance companies has also been significantly called into question during the current downturn (for example, in identifying and preventing “pyramid schemes,” “bubbles” in different asset classes and other potential systemic failures in a timely fashion), as the result of which the overall risk of unforeseeable financial loss from engaging in business with ostensibly regulated counterparties has increased. POTENTIALLY ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES; CHANGES IN TAX LEGISLATION AND TAX RATES. Moving funds between countries can produce adverse tax consequences in the countries from which and to which funds are transferred, as well as in other countries, such as the United States, in which we have operations. Additionally, as our operations are global, we face challenges in effectively gaining a tax benefit for costs incurred in one country that benefit our operations in other countries. Changes in tax legislation or tax rates may occur in one or more jurisdictions in which we operate that may materially increase the cost of operating our business. This includes the potential for significant legislative policy change in the taxation objectives with respect to the income of multinational corporations, as has recently been the subject of policy debate and proposals in the United States and the United Kingdom. Although we are uncertain as to the ultimate results, or what the effects will be on our businesses in particular, it is possible that some governments will make significant changes to their tax policies as part of their responses to their weakened economies. We face tax risks both in our own business but also in the investment funds that LaSalle Investment Management operates. Adverse or unanticipated tax consequences to the funds can negatively impact fund performance, incentive fees and the value of co-investments that we have made. THE CHARTER AND THE BYLAWS OF JONES LANG LASALLE, OR THE MARYLAND GENERAL CORPORATION LAW, COULD DELAY, DEFER OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL. The charter and bylaws of Jones Lang LaSalle include provisions that may discourage, delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that may be in the best interest of Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The charter and bylaws provide for: • The ability of the board of directors to establish one or more classes and series of capital stock including the ability to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of such capital stock without any further shareholder approval; • A requirement that any shareholder action taken without a meeting be pursuant to unanimous written consent; and • Certain advance notice procedures for Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders nominating candidates for election to the Jones Lang LaSalle board of directors. Under the Maryland General Corporate Law (the “MGCL”), certain “Business Combinations” (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation 26 Table of Contents and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares or an affiliate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the corporation (an “Interested Shareholder”) or an affiliate of the Interested Shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder. Thereafter, any such Business Combination must be recommended by the board of directors of such corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation and (2) 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation other than shares held by the Interested Shareholder with whom the Business Combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the corporation’s shareholders receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Shareholder for its shares. Pursuant to the MGCL, these provisions also do not apply to Business Combinations approved or exempted by the board of directors of the corporation prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder becomes an Interested Shareholder. Human Resources Risk Factors, Including From Non-Employees DIFFICULTIES AND COSTS OF STAFFING AND MANAGING INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. The coordination and management of international operations pose additional costs and difficulties. We must manage operations that are in many time zones and that involve people with language and cultural differences. Our success depends on finding and retaining people capable of dealing with these challenges effectively, who will represent the Firm with the highest levels of integrity and who will communicate and cooperate well with colleagues and clients across multiple geographies. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or to successfully plan for succession of employees holding key management positions, our growth may not be sustainable, and our business and operating results could suffer. Among the challenges we face in retaining our people is maintaining a compensation system that rewards them consistent with local market practices and with our profitability. This can be especially difficult where competitors may be attempting to gain market share by aggressively attempting to hire our best people at rates of compensation that are well above the current market level. We also face the possibility that firms in other industries that recover before real estate will be able to increase compensation sooner than we can, which may make them more attractive employers for top talent. Another continuing challenge we have is to maintain compensation systems that align financial incentives with our strategic goals as an organization and the business and ethics behaviors we want to drive among our people, while at the same time not create incentives to engage in overly risky business pursuits or behaviors. We have committed resources to effectively coordinate our business activities around the world to meet our clients’ needs, whether they are local, regional or global. We also consistently attempt to enhance the establishment, organization and communication of corporate policies, particularly where we determine that the nature of our business poses the greatest risk of noncompliance. The failure of our people to carry out their responsibilities in accordance with our client contracts, our corporate and operating policies, or our standard operating procedures, or their negligence in doing so, could result in liability to clients or other third parties, which could have a material adverse effect. This is true not only with respect to individuals we employ directly, but also individuals who work for third party vendors whom we hire on behalf of clients, especially where we are acting in a principal capacity. An employee whom we hire may be subject to restrictions under employment agreements with previous employers that can restrict their activities, and therefore their contribution, for a period of time after they join us. For example, they may be prohibited from soliciting business from certain clients, or from soliciting other individuals to join us as employees. The worldwide credit crisis and economic recession caused us to restructure certain parts of our business in 2009, and to a lesser degree during 2010, in order to size them properly relative to levels of business activity we expect in the markets in which we compete. These activities present additional risks to the business. When addressing staffing in connection with a restructuring of our organization or a downturn in economic conditions or activity, we must take into account the employment laws of the countries in which actions are contemplated. In some cases, this can result in significant costs, time delays in implementing headcount reductions and, potentially, litigation regarding allegedly improper employment practices. NONCOMPLIANCE WITH POLICIES; COMMUNICATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT OF OUR POLICIES AND OUR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS. The geographic and cultural diversity in our organization makes it more challenging to communicate the importance of adherence to our Code of Business Ethics and our Vendor Code of Conduct, to monitor and enforce compliance with its provisions on a worldwide basis, and to ensure local compliance with United States and English laws that apply globally in certain circumstances. These include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Patriot Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the United States and the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom. Breaches of our Code of Business Ethics, particularly by our executive management, could have a material adverse effect. Breaches of our Vendor Code of Conduct by vendors whom we retain as a principal for client engagements can also lead to significant losses to clients from financial liabilities that might result. 27 Table of Contents EMPLOYEE, VENDOR AND THIRD-PARTY MISCONDUCT. Like any business, we run the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. In a company such as ours with 40,300 employees, it is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee misconduct, including fraud, can cause significant financial or reputational harm to any business, from which full recovery cannot be assured. We also may not have insurance that covers any losses in full or that covers losses from particular criminal acts. Because we often hire third-party vendors to perform services for our own account or for clients, we are also subject to the consequences of fraud or misconduct by employees of our vendors, which also can result in significant financial or reputational harm (even if we have been adequately protected from a legal standpoint). We have instituted a Vendor Code of Conduct, which is published in multiple languages on our public Web site, and which is intended to communicate to our vendors the standards of conduct we expect them to uphold. Anecdotally, the risk that the Company will be the victim of fraud, both from employees and third parties, is generally thought to increase during times of general economic stress such as we experienced particularly during 2008 and 2009. An example of a third-party fraud would be attempts to draw on bank accounts by way of forged checks or by corporate identity theft, both of which we have increasingly experienced in recent years as attempts but without financial loss. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 