ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business involves certain risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, we may face other risks and uncertainties, some of which may be unknown to us and some of which we may deem immaterial. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our profitability and the value of our coal reserves depend upon coal demand by United States electric power generators and other factors beyond our control. Our results of operations and the value of our coal reserves are substantially dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. The prices we receive for our coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including the coal consumption patterns of the United States electric generation industry. According to the EIA, the United States electric generation industry accounts for approximately 92% of domestic coal consumption. Certain factors beyond our control, including those listed below, influence the amount of coal consumed for United States electric power generation: • the overall demand for electricity, which in turn significantly depends on general economic conditions and summer and winter temperatures in the United States; • environmental and government regulation, including air emission standards for domestic and foreign coal-fired power plants; • the location, availability, quality and price of competing sources of coal, alternative fuels, such as natural gas, oil and nuclear, and alternative energy sources, such as hydroelectric, wind and solar power; and • technological developments, including the effects of worldwide energy conservation measures. Demand for our low sulfur coal and the prices we obtain for it will also be affected by the price and availability of high sulfur coal. In some instances, United States electric power generators can use high sulfur coal together with emissions allowances in order to satisfy federal and state air emission standards. In addition, restrictions imposed by federal and state air emission standards may cause some electric power generators to shift from coal to natural gas-fired power plants. A decrease in coal consumption by United States electric power generators could reduce the prices we receive for our coal. Significant decreases in the prices we receive for our coal could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the value of our coal reserves. Certain conditions or events beyond our control could negatively impact our coal mining operations, our production or our operating costs. We conduct coal mining operations in underground mines and at surface mines. Certain factors beyond our control, including those listed below, could disrupt our coal mining operations, reduce our production or increase our operating costs: • unexpected variations in geological conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • interruptions due to transportation delays; • unexpected delays and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits or mining or surface rights; 27 Table of Contents • unavailability of mining equipment and supplies and increases in the price of mining equipment and supplies; • shortage of qualified labor and a significant rise in labor costs; • fluctuations in the cost of industrial supplies, including steel-based supplies, natural gas, diesel fuel and oil; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • unexpected or accidental surface subsidence from underground mining; • accidental mine water discharges, fires, explosions or similar mining accidents; and • regulatory issues involving the plugging of and mining through oil and gas wells that penetrate the coal seams we mine. If any of these conditions or events occur, particularly at our Black Thunder mine, our coal mining operations may be disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or our operating costs could increase significantly. In addition, if our insurance coverage is limited or excludes certain of these conditions or events, then we may not be able to recover any of the losses we may incur as a result of such conditions or events, some of which may be substantial. Increases in the price of steel, diesel fuel or rubber tires could negatively affect our operating costs. Our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel and rubber tires. The costs of roof bolts we use in our underground mining operations depend on the price of scrap steel. We also use significant amounts of diesel fuel and tires for the trucks and other heavy machinery we use, particularly at our Black Thunder mine. A worldwide increase in mining, construction and military activities has caused a shortage of the large rubber tires we use in our mining operations. While we have taken initiatives aimed at extending the useful lives of our rubber tires, including increased driver training, improved road maintenance and reduced driving speeds, we may be unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of rubber tires in the future or at prices which are favorable to us. If the prices of steel, diesel fuel and rubber tires increase, our operating costs could be negatively affected. In addition, if we are unable to procure rubber tires, our coal mining operations may be disrupted or we could experience a delay or halt of production. Our labor costs could increase if the shortage of skilled coal mining workers continues. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled workers with experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. The resurgence in coal mining activity in recent years has caused a significant tightening of the labor supply. In addition, employee turnover rates in the coal industry have increased during this period as coal producers compete for skilled personnel. Because of the shortage of trained coal miners in recent years, we have operated certain facilities without full staff and have hired novice miners, who are required to be accompanied by experienced workers as a safety precaution. These measures have negatively affected our productivity and our operating costs. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, our production may be negatively affected or our operating costs could increase. 28 Table of Contents Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced by our contract mine operators could impair our ability to fill customer orders or increase our operating costs. We use independent contractors to mine coal at certain of our mining complexes, including select operations at our Coal-Mac, Cumberland River and Mingo Logan mining complexes. Operational difficulties at contractor-operated mines, changes in demand for contract miners from other coal producers and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, pricing, and quality of coal produced for us by contractors. Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced for us by our contract mine operators could impair our ability to fill our customer orders or require us to purchase coal from other sources in order to satisfy those orders. If we are unable to fill a customer order or if we are required to purchase coal from other sources in order to satisfy a customer order, we could lose existing customers and our operating costs could increase. Our inability to acquire additional coal reserves or our inability to develop coal reserves in an economically feasible manner may adversely affect our business. As we mine, we deplete our coal reserves. As a result, our ability to produce coal in the future depends, in part, on our ability to acquire additional coal reserves. We may not be able to obtain replacement reserves when we require them. If available, replacement reserves may not be available at favorable prices, or we may not be capable of mining those reserves at costs that are comparable with our existing coal reserves. Our ability to obtain coal reserves in the future could also be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements and competition from other coal producers. If we are unable to acquire coal reserves to replace the coal reserves we mine, our future production may decrease significantly and our operating results may be negatively affected. In addition to the availability of additional coal reserves, our future performance depends on the accuracy with which we estimate the quantity and quality of the coal included within those reserves. We base our estimates of reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled, analyzed and reviewed by internal and third-party engineers and consultants. Certain assumptions and other factors beyond our control, including those listed below, could affect the accuracy of our estimates: • unexpected geological and mining conditions which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or drill hole density and may differ from our experience in areas we currently mine; • future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes, royalties and development and reclamation costs; • future mining technology improvements; and • the assumed effects of federal and state environmental, safety or other regulations. We control substantial undeveloped reserves and have not identified the equipment or workforce that will be employed to mine these reserves. Permits have been obtained for some of these undeveloped reserves. We expect to obtain the required remaining permits by the time we commence mining these reserves, but we may be unable to do so at all or within the necessary time period. Some of the required 29 Table of Contents permits have become increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the application review processes are taking longer to complete and have been subject to more frequent challenges. Because of these uncertainties, the quantity and quality of the coal we are ultimately able to recover within our coal reserves may differ materially from our estimates. Inaccuracies in our estimates could result in revenue that is lower than we expect or operating costs that are higher than we expect. A defect in title or the loss of a leasehold interest in certain property could limit our ability to mine our coal reserves or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our coal mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of a lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated coal reserves. We may not verify title to our leased properties or associated coal reserves until we have committed to developing those properties or coal reserves. We may not commit to develop property or coal reserves until we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration. As such, the title to property that we intend to lease or coal reserves that we intend to mine may contain defects prohibiting our ability to conduct mining operations. Similarly, our leasehold interests may be subject to superior property rights of other third parties. In order to conduct our mining operations on properties where these defects exist, we may incur unanticipated costs. In addition, some leases require us to produce a minimum quantity of coal and contain minimum production royalties. Our inability to satisfy those requirements may cause the leasehold interest to terminate. The availability and reliability of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our coal or impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. We depend upon barge, rail, truck and belt transportation systems to deliver coal to our customers. Disruptions in transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, and other events could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. As we do not have long-term contracts with transportation providers to ensure consistent and reliable service, decreased performance levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs. In addition, increases in transportation costs, including the price of gasoline and diesel fuel, could make coal a less competitive source of energy when compared to alternative fuels or could make coal produced in one region of the United States less competitive than coal produced in other regions of the United States or abroad. If we experience disruptions in our transportation services or if transportation costs increase significantly and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers, our coal mining operations may be disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or our profitability could decrease significantly. 30 Table of Contents We may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to occur as a result of acquisitions that we undertake. We continually seek to expand our operations and coal reserves through acquisitions of other businesses and assets, including leasehold interests. Certain risks, including those listed below, could cause us not to realize the benefits we expect to occur as a result of those acquisitions: • uncertainties in assessing the value, risks, profitability and liabilities (including environmental liabilities) associated with certain businesses or assets; • the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; • the possibility that operating and financial synergies expected to result from an acquisition do not develop; • problems arising from the integration of an acquired business; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the rationale for a particular acquisition. Our profitability depends upon the long-term coal supply agreements we have with our customers. Changes in purchasing patterns in the coal industry could make it difficult for us to extend our existing long-term coal supply agreements or to enter into new agreements in the future. We sell a substantial portion of our coal under long-term coal supply agreements, which we define as contracts with a term greater than one year. Under these arrangements, we fix the prices of coal shipped during the initial year and may adjust the prices in later years. As a result, at any given time the market prices for similar-quality coal may exceed the prices for coal shipped under these arrangements. Changes in the coal industry may cause some of our customers not to renew, extend or enter into new long-term coal supply agreements with us or to enter into agreements to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms or prices. In addition, uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations, including the Clean Air Act, could deter our customers from entering into long-term coal supply agreements. Because we sell a substantial portion of our coal production under long-term coal supply agreements, our ability to capitalize on more favorable market prices may be limited. Conversely, at any given time we are subject to fluctuations in market prices for the quantities of coal that we have produced but which we have not committed to sell. As described above under “Our profitability and the value of our coal reserves depend upon coal demand by United States electric power generators and other factors beyond our control,” the market prices for coal may be volatile and may depend upon factors beyond our control. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to sell uncommitted production at favorable prices or at all. For more information about our long-term coal supply agreements, you should see “Long-Term Coal Supply Arrangements” beginning on page 17. 31 Table of Contents The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we derived approximately 25.3% of our total coal revenues from sales to our three largest customers, Tennessee Valley Authority, American Electric Power Company, Inc. and TUCO, Inc., and approximately 52.7% of our total coal revenues from sales to our ten largest customers. At December 31, 2006, we had coal supply agreements with those ten customers that expire at various times from 2007 to 2017. We expect to renew, extend or enter into new long-term coal supply agreements with those and other customers. However, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining long-term coal supply agreements with those customers, and those customers may discontinue purchasing coal from us. If any of those customers, particularly any of our three largest customers, was to significantly reduce the quantities of coal it purchases from us, or if we are unable to sell coal to those customers on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current long-term coal supply agreements, our profitability could suffer significantly. We have limited protection during adverse economic conditions and may face economic penalties if we are unable to satisfy certain quality specifications under our long-term coal supply agreements. Our long-term coal supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing the parties to temporarily suspend performance during specified events beyond their control. Most of our long-term coal supply agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal that satisfies certain quality specifications, such as heat value, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. These provisions in our long-term coal supply agreements could result in negative economic consequences to us, including price adjustments, purchasing replacement coal in a higher-priced open market, the rejection of deliveries or, in the extreme, contract termination. Our profitability may be negatively affected if we are unable to seek protection during adverse economic conditions or if we incur financial or other economic penalties as a result of these provisions of our long-term supply agreements. The amount of indebtedness we have incurred could significantly affect our business. At December 31, 2006, we had consolidated indebtedness of approximately $1.2 billion. We also have significant lease and royalty obligations. Our ability to satisfy our debt, lease and royalty obligations, and our ability to refinance our indebtedness, will depend upon our future operating performance. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings or other financing may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable us to satisfy our financial obligations or our other liquidity needs. Our ability to satisfy our financial obligations may be adversely affected if we incur additional indebtedness in the future. In addition, the amount of indebtedness we have incurred could have significant consequences to our business, including those listed below: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt covenants and debt service, lease payment and other obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general operating requirements; 32 Table of Contents • causing a downgrade in our credit ratings if we incur additional debt or are unable to service our existing debt; • reducing the availability of cash flow from operations to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general operating purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage when compared to competitors with less relative amounts of debt. We may be unable to comply with restrictions imposed by our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. The agreements governing our outstanding debt and our accounts receivable securitization program impose a number of restrictions on us. For example, the terms of our credit facilities, leases and other financing arrangements contain financial and other covenants that create limitations on our ability to borrow the full amount under our credit facilities, effect acquisitions or dispositions and incur additional debt and require us to maintain various financial ratios and comply with various other financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to comply with these restrictions. A failure to comply with these restrictions could adversely affect our ability to borrow under our credit facilities or result in an event of default under these agreements. In the event of a default, our lenders and the counterparties to our other financing arrangements could terminate their commitments to us and declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and fees, immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we might not be able to pay these amounts, or we might be forced to seek an amendment to our financing arrangements which could make the terms of these arrangements more onerous for us. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and, therefore, our ability to mine or lease coal. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers’ compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. We generally reprice these bonds annually, however, they are not cancellable by the surety. Surety bond issuers and holders may increase premiums on the bonds or impose other less favorable terms upon those renewals. The ability of surety bond issuers and holders to demand additional collateral or other less favorable terms has increased as the number of companies willing to issue these bonds has decreased over time. Our failure to maintain, or our inability to acquire, surety bonds required by federal and state law could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and, therefore, our ability to mine or lease coal. Several factors, including those listed below, could cause us to be unable to maintain or to acquire surety bonds in the future: • lack of availability, higher expenses or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; • restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third party surety bond issuers under the terms of our credit facility; and 33 Table of Contents • insufficient borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility or our receivable securitization facility for additional letters of credit. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we must satisfy certain below-market contracts with coal we purchase on the open market or with coal we produce at our remaining operations. We have agreed to guarantee Magnum’s obligations to supply coal under certain coal sales contracts that we sold to Magnum, the longest of which extends to the year 2017. In order for the transfer of these coal sales contracts to become effective, the customers must approve the assignments of the contracts to Magnum. At December 31, 2006, one customer had not yet approved these assignments. Until this customer consents, we have agreed to purchase the coal required to satisfy these obligations from Magnum at the same price we charge the customer under the contracts. If Magnum cannot supply the coal required under these coal sales contracts, we would be required to purchase coal on the open market or supply coal from our existing operations in order to satisfy our obligations under these contracts. If we had purchased all of the coal required under these contracts at market prices in effect on December 31, 2006, we would have incurred a loss of approximately $97.1 million related to these contracts. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity or acts of war have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity. Future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers. As a result, we could experience delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal or extended collections from our customers. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Regulations Federal and state regulations impose significant costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. Federal and state authorities regulate certain areas, including those listed below, that significantly affect the coal mining industry: • the discharge of materials into the environment; • employee health and safety; • mine permitting and licensing requirements; • reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed; • management of materials generated by mining operations; • surface subsidence from underground mining; • water pollution; • statutorily mandated benefits for current and retired coal miners; 34 Table of Contents • air quality standards; • protection of wetlands; • endangered plant and wildlife protection; • limitations on land use; • storage and disposal of petroleum products and substances that are regarded as hazardous under applicable laws; and • management of electrical equipment containing PCBs. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be significant and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our mining operations. We may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. Our profitability may be negatively affected if we incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of these regulations. You should see “Environmental Matters” beginning on page 18 for more information about the federal and state regulations affecting us. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Such regulations, if enacted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to obtain and renew permits necessary for our mining operations could negatively affect our business. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits that regulate environmental and health and safety matters in connection with coal mining, including permits issued by various federal and state agencies and regulatory bodies. We believe that we have obtained the necessary permits to mine our developed reserves at our mining complexes. However, as we commence mining our undeveloped reserves, we will need to apply for and obtain the required permits. The permitting rules are complex and change frequently, making our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or even impossible. In addition, private individuals and the public at large have certain rights to comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need for our mining operations may not be issued, or, if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion. The permits may also involve requirements that may be changed or interpreted in a manner which restricts our ability to conduct our mining operations or to do so profitably. An inability to conduct our mining operations pursuant to applicable permits would reduce our production, cash flow and profitability. 35 Table of Contents If the assumptions underlying our estimates of reclamation and mine closure obligations are inaccurate, our costs could be greater than anticipated. SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining, as well as most aspects of underground mining. We base our estimates of reclamation and mine closure liabilities on permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. Our management and engineers periodically review these estimates. The estimates can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which we refer to as Statement No. 143, requires us to record these obligations as liabilities at fair value. In estimating fair value, we considered the estimated current costs of reclamation and mine closure and applied inflation rates and a third-party profit, as required by Statement No. 143. The third-party profit is an estimate of the approximate markup that would be charged by contractors for work performed on our behalf. If actual costs differ from our estimates, our profitability could be negatively affected. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We maintain extensive coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at a number of our mining complexes. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Slurry impoundments have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry into the surrounding environment. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as “acid mine drainage,” which we refer to as AMD. The treating of AMD can be costly. Although we do not currently face material costs associated with AMD, it is possible that we could incur significant costs in the future. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us. 36 Table of Contents Judicial rulings that restrict how we may dispose of mining wastes could significantly increase our operating costs, discourage customers from purchasing our coal and materially harm our financial condition and operating results. To dispose of mining overburden generated by our surface mining operations, we often need to obtain permits to construct and operate valley fills and surface impoundments. Some of these permits are Clean Water Act § 404 permits issued by the Army Corps of Engineers. Two of our operating subsidiaries were identified in an existing lawsuit, which challenged the issuance of such permits and asked that the Corps be ordered to rescind them. Our operating subsidiaries are seeking to intervene in the suit to protect their interests in being allowed to operate under the issued permits and have asked that the claims against them be dismissed. We cannot predict the final outcome of this lawsuit. If mining methods at issue are limited or prohibited, it could significantly increase our operational costs, make it more difficult to economically recover a significant portion of our reserves and lead to a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to increase the price we charge for coal to cover higher production costs without reducing customer demand for our coal. You should see the section entitled “Contingencies” beginning on page 63 for more information about the litigation described above. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 