ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Griffin's real estate and landscape nursery businesses have a number of risk factors. The risk factors discussed below are the ones that management deems to be material, but they may not be the only risks facing Griffin's businesses. Additional risks not currently known or currently deemed not to be material may also impact Griffin's businesses. Risks Associated with Concentration of Real Estate Holdings Griffin Land's real estate operations are concentrated in the Hartford, Connecticut area. Adverse changes in the local economy or real estate market could impact Griffin Land's real estate operations, including the market's ability to absorb newly constructed space and Griffin Land's ability to retenant vacant space. Potential Environmental Liability Griffin Land has extensive land holdings in Connecticut and Massachusetts. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, Griffin Land may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous substances or petroleum products at its properties because of its current or past ownership or operation of the real estate. If previously unidentified environmental problems arise, Griffin Land may have to make substantial payments, which could adversely affect its cash flow. As an owner or operator of properties, Griffin Land may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the 12 contamination. The law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination. Competition and Governmental Regulations Griffin Land's real estate operations compete with other properties in Griffin Land's area of operation and are subject to governmental regulations that affect real estate development, such as local zoning ordinances. The construction of new facilities by competitors would increase capacity in the marketplace, which could result in Griffin Land experiencing longer times to lease vacant space, depressing lease rates or hindering renewals by existing tenants. Insurance Coverage Does Not Include All Potential Losses in the Real Estate Business Griffin Land carries comprehensive insurance coverage, including property, fire, terrorism and loss of rental revenue. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits. Griffin Land believes its properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses that are not generally insured against or that are not fully insured against. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of Griffin Land's properties, Griffin Land could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenue from the properties affected. Risks of Agricultural and Environmental Factors Imperial's production of plants may be adversely affected by agricultural and environmental factors beyond its control such as a hurricane at its northern Florida location or severe drought conditions. A hurricane at its northern Florida facility could damage Imperial's facilities and result in a loss of inventory (see Risks of Loss in the Landscape Nursery Business Not Covered by Insurance). Imperial's production facilities could also be adversely affected by severe drought conditions. While management believes that Imperial's Connecticut and northern Florida operations have sufficient water supplies available, a severe drought could impact Imperial's ability to maintain adequately its inventory. In addition, a severe drought in Imperial's main sales markets could substantially impact Imperial's sales. Other agricultural or environmental factors that could materially impact Imperial's growing operations are adverse weather conditions, such as freezing conditions (particularly at the northern Florida facility), plant diseases, pests and the improper use of herbicides and pesticides. The occurrence of any one of these factors could materially affect Imperial's growing operations, and result in a portion of Imperial's inventory becoming unsaleable. Concentration of Customers Although no single customer of Imperial accounted for more than 10% of Imperial's total net sales in fiscal 2007, Imperial's ten largest customers, including several mass merchandisers, accounted for 25% of Imperial's total net sales in fiscal 2007. Management expects that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of Imperial's net sales over the next several years. Imperial does not have any material sales contracts with any of its customers. Certain of Imperial's independent garden center customers purchase product from Imperial through buying cooperatives. The loss of one of Imperial's larger customers or the inability to collect accounts receivable from one of Imperial's larger customers, including buying cooperatives, could have an adverse effect on Imperial. One of Griffin Land's tenants accounted for approximately 10% of its total rental revenue in fiscal 2007. Regulatory Risks Imperial's operations are subject to various laws and environmental regulations. The failure to comply with such laws and environmental regulations could result in liabilities being incurred for Imperial's actions. Recently, there has been an increase in legislation regarding the sale and 13 transportation of plant varieties considered to be "invasive" by state governments. The continuation of such legislation could adversely impact Imperial's operations by reducing the area where inventories of plants considered to be invasive may be sold or transported. Risks Associated with the Cost of Raw Materials and Energy Costs Imperial's operations could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of growing plants, the costs of certain materials and energy costs. Prices of certain petroleum based materials, such as plant containers and plastics used in protecting inventory during the winter, have increased as overall petroleum prices have increased. In addition, increases in energy costs and the lack of availability of energy could also adversely impact Imperial's operations, particularly at Imperial's Connecticut facility, which uses heat generated from natural gas and propane to maintain certain parts of its inventory during the winter. Griffin Land's construction activities could be adversely affected by increases in raw materials or energy costs. As petroleum and other energy costs increase, products used in the construction of Griffin Land's facilities, such as steel, masonry, asphalt, cement and building products are expected to increase, based on recent bids. An increase in construction costs will increase the cost of building new facilities and may negatively impact Griffin Land's future operating results through increased depreciation expenses. An increase in construction costs would also require increased investment in Griffin Land's real estate assets, which may lower the return on investment in new facilities in the real estate business. Residential Real Estate Market and Credit Availability The decline in the residential real estate market and tightening of credit availability during 2007 may adversely affect Griffin Land's real estate development activities. The decline in the residential real estate market could result in the delay or cancellation of the completion of residential land sales currently under contract and could result in the delay of the development of Griffin Land's other undeveloped land intended for residential use. The slowdown in new housing starts in 2007 may also adversely affect Imperial's future results. Although Imperial only has minimal sales of product to home builders, they are the ultimate users of a portion of the product sold to Imperial's rewholesale customer segment, which accounted for 32% of Imperial's sales in fiscal 2007. Availability of Transportation Vendors to Deliver Product Substantially all of Imperial's sales are delivered to customers' locations using independent contractors for trucking services. The ability to ship products timely, especially during the peak spring shipping season, could be adversely impacted by shortages in available trucking capacity. Significant increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on Imperial's business, as customers may choose to purchase product from local growers or Imperial may not be able to pass along such increases to customers. The risks regarding transportation, while significant to Imperial's entire operation, are more acute at its northern Florida facility, because that facility is, on average, more distant from its customers than Imperial's Connecticut facility. Availability of Labor Labor costs comprise a substantial portion of Imperial's production costs. Imperial is subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act as well as various federal, state and local regulations that govern matters such as minimum wage requirements, working conditions and worker regulations. As a significant amount of Imperial's seasonal employees are paid at slightly above minimum wage rates, any increase in such minimum wage rates could adversely impact Imperial's results. In addition, Imperial depends on a significant amount of seasonal labor, particularly during its peak shipping period in the spring. Changes in immigration laws could make it more difficult for Imperial to meet its seasonal labor requirements, which could adversely affect Imperial's operations. 14 Risks of Loss in the Landscape Nursery Business Not Covered by Insurance Imperial carries comprehensive insurance coverage, including property, liability, fire and terrorism on its production facilities and its inventories. The insurance contains policy specifications and insured limits, and does not cover all possible losses that Imperial could incur. For example, Imperial's insurance that covers its inventory at its northern Florida facility does not include losses that may occur from wind, such as from a hurricane or tornado. Investment in Foreign Company Griffin has an investment in Centaur Media, plc, a public company based in the United Kingdom. The ultimate liquidation of that investment and conversion of proceeds into United States currency is subject to future foreign currency exchange rates. Litigation Griffin is involved, as a defendant, in various litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, based on the advice of legal counsel, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these matters will not be material, individually or in the aggregate, to Griffin's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Concentrated Ownership of Griffin Common Stock by Members of the Cullman and Ernst Families Members of the Cullman and Ernst families (the "Cullman and Ernst Group"), which include directors Edgar M. Cullman, David M. Danziger and Frederick M. Danziger, members of their families and trusts for their benefit, partnerships in which they own substantial interests and charitable foundations on whose boards of directors they sit, owned, directly or indirectly, approximately 49.7% of the outstanding common stock of Griffin as of December 1, 2007. There is an informal understanding that the persons and entities included in the Cullman and Ernst Group will vote together the shares owned by each of them. As a result, the Cullman and Ernst Group may effectively control the determination of Griffin's corporate and management policies and may limit other Griffin stockholders' ability to influence Griffin's corporate and management policies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 