Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report. These risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to review or confirm analysts’ expectations or estimates or to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Pending Merger with CenturyLink Our merger with CenturyLink is subject to closing conditions, including government approvals, which could result in additional conditions that adversely affect us or which could cause the merger to be delayed or abandoned. The completion of the CenturyLink merger is subject to certain closing conditions, including the absence of injunctions or other legal restrictions and the absence of a material adverse effect on either company. In addition, the merger remains subject to a number of regulatory approvals. We have received most of the necessary approvals from state public service or public utility commissions, but we still need approvals from the FCC and several other state public service or public utility commissions. These regulatory entities could impose requirements or obligations as conditions for their approvals. Despite our best efforts, we may not be able to satisfy the various closing conditions and obtain the necessary approvals. In addition, any required conditions to these approvals could adversely affect the combined company or could result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. Failure to complete the CenturyLink merger could negatively impact us. If the CenturyLink merger is not completed, we would still remain liable for significant transaction costs and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of a completed merger. Depending on the reasons for not completing the merger, we could also be required to pay CenturyLink a termination fee of $350 million. For these and other reasons, a failed merger could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected to the extent that the current price reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed. While the CenturyLink merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect our business. Our employees, customers and suppliers may have uncertainties about the effects of the merger. Although we have taken actions designed to reduce any adverse effects of these uncertainties, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to try to change our existing business relationships. The pursuit of the merger and preparations for integration have placed and will continue to place a significant burden on many employees and internal resources. If, despite our efforts, key employees depart because of these uncertainties and burdens, or because they do not wish to remain with a combined company, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. While the merger is pending, some of our customers could delay or forgo purchasing decisions and suppliers could seek additional rights or benefits from us. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from taking certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs without CenturyLink’s consent, and these restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if the merger is delayed. For these and other reasons, the pendency of the merger could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. If completed, our merger with CenturyLink may not achieve the intended results. The merger will involve the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies. The combined company will need to devote management attention and resources to integrate our and CenturyLink’s businesses. In addition, the combined company may face difficulties with the integration process. For example: • the combined company may not realize the anticipated cost savings and operating synergies at expected levels or in the expected timeframe; 13 Table of Contents • existing customers and suppliers may decide not to do business with the combined company; • the costs of integrating our policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems with those of CenturyLink could be higher than expected; • the integration process could consume significant time and attention on the part of the combined company’s management, thereby diverting attention from day-to-day operations; or • the combined company may not be able to integrate employees from the two companies while maintaining existing levels of sales, customer service and operational support. For these and other reasons, the merger may not achieve the intended results. Risks Affecting Our Business Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We are facing greater competition from cable companies, wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves) and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other factors, we continue to lose access lines. We are continually evaluating our responses to these competitive pressures. Some of our more recent responses are expanded broadband capabilities and strategic partnerships. We also remain focused on customer service and providing customers with simple and integrated solutions, including, among other things, product bundles and packages. However, we may not be successful in these efforts. We may not be able to distinguish our offerings and service levels from those of our competitors, and we may not be successful in integrating our product offerings, especially products for which we act as a reseller or sales agent such as wireless and video services. Our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected if these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient and if we otherwise are unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly without corresponding cost reductions. If this occurred, our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns would also be adversely affected. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, could negatively affect our business. While it is often difficult for us to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may encounter financial hardships or may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. In addition, as discussed below under the heading “Risks Affecting our Liquidity,” due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. 14 Table of Contents Consolidation among other participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry has experienced some consolidation, and several of our competitors have consolidated with other telecommunications providers. This consolidation results in competitors that are larger and better financed and affords our competitors increased resources and greater geographical reach, thereby enabling those competitors to compete more effectively against us. We have experienced and expect further increased pressures as a result of this consolidation and in turn have been and may continue to be forced to respond with lower profit margin product offerings and pricing plans in an effort to retain and attract customers. These pressures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, and our ability to execute our business plans and compete depends upon our ability to develop and deploy new products and services. The development and deployment of new products and services could also require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any inability to keep up with changes in technology and markets could also adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers, including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services, our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, and defending against these claims could adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to conduct business. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, on the trading price of our debt and equity securities and on our ability to access the capital markets. As described in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this report, the KPNQwest matters present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters have sought billions of euros (equating to billions of dollars) in damages. In addition, the outcome of one or more of these matters could have a negative impact on the outcomes of the other matters. We continue to defend against these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. We can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional securities or selling assets. Further, there are other material proceedings pending against us as described in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this report that, depending on their outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Thus, we can give no assurances as to the impacts on our operating results or financial condition as a result of these matters. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation. We are subject to significant regulation by the FCC, which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer regulated services, and we are subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we are always in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their own initiative. See additional information about regulations affecting our business in “Business—Regulation” in Item 1 of this report. Regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from state to state. The state legislatures and state utility commissions in our local service area have adopted reduced or modified forms of regulation for retail services. These changes also generally allow more flexibility for rate changes and for new product introduction, and they enhance our ability to respond to competition. Despite these regulatory changes, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which could expose us to unanticipated price declines. For instance, in 2011 the state utility commission in Arizona may consider a price cap plan that will govern the rates that we charge in that state. The FCC is also considering changing the rates that carriers can charge each other for originating, carrying and terminating traffic and for local access facilities. Also under review by the FCC and state commissions are the intercarrier compensation issues arising from the delivery of traffic destined for entities that offer conference and chat line services for free (known in the industry as “access stimulation,” or “traffic pumping”), and of traffic bound for Internet service providers that cross local exchange boundaries (known as “VNXX traffic”). The FCC and state commissions are also considering changes to funds they have established to subsidize service to high-cost areas. Changes to how those funds are distributed could 16 Table of Contents result in us receiving less in universal service funding, and changes to how the funds are collected could make some of our services less competitive. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental regulations. We monitor our compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we believe that we are in compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Affecting Our Liquidity Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. We continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated debt was approximately $11.9 billion. Approximately $3.5 billion of our debt obligations comes due over the next three years. While we currently believe we will have the financial resources to meet our obligations when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate the future condition of our company, the credit markets or the economy generally. We may have unexpected costs and liabilities, and we may have limited access to financing. In addition, it is the current expectation of our Board of Directors that we will continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend. Cash used by us to pay dividends will not be available for other purposes, including the repayment of debt. We may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets), if revenue and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive pressures increase, if we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits significantly earlier than is anticipated, or if we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this report, but we would need to do so in a manner consistent with the terms of our merger agreement with CenturyLink. We can give no assurance that this additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Also, we may be impacted by factors relating to or affecting our liquidity and capital resources due to perception in the market, impacts on our credit ratings or provisions in our financing agreements that may restrict our flexibility under certain conditions. Our $1.035 billion revolving credit facility (referred to as our Credit Facility), which is currently undrawn, has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our other debt issues have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit ratings. In addition, the Credit Facility contains various limitations, including a restriction on using any proceeds from the facility to pay settlements or judgments relating to the legal matters discussed in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this report. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Near-Term View” in Item 7 of this report for additional information about the Credit Facility. Our high debt levels could adversely impact our credit ratings. Additionally, the degree to which we are leveraged may have other important limiting consequences, including the following: • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared with our less leveraged competitors; • making us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions or in any of our businesses; 17 Table of Contents • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. We may be unable to significantly reduce the substantial capital requirements or operating expenses necessary to continue to operate our business, which may in turn affect our operating results. The industry in which we operate is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the coming years. Although we have reduced our operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further significantly reduce these costs, even if revenue in some areas of our business is decreasing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our maintenance and our core growth requirements going forward, this may not be the case if circumstances underlying our expectations change. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our qualified pension plan could negatively impact our liquidity. The funded status of our qualified pension plan is the difference between the value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The accounting unfunded status of our pension plan was $585 million at December 31, 2010. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligation or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. These adverse changes could require us to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plan or could accelerate the timing of required cash payments. Based on current funding laws and regulations, we will not be required to make a cash contribution in 2011. During 2012 we expect to begin making required contributions to the plan and we estimate that these 2012 contributions could be between $300 million and $350 million. Although potentially significant in the aggregate, we currently expect that contributions in 2013 and beyond will decrease annually from the 2012 expected contribution amount. However, the actual amount of required contributions in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in the plan and funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions in 2011 and beyond could have a negative impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. Our debt agreements allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. The terms of our debt instruments permit us to incur additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be necessary for many reasons, including to adequately respond to competition, to comply with regulatory requirements related to our service obligations or for financial reasons alone. Incremental borrowings or borrowings at maturity on terms that impose additional financial risks to our various efforts to improve our operating results and financial condition could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. If we pursue and are involved in any strategic transactions, our financial condition could be adversely affected. On a regular and ongoing basis, we review and evaluate opportunities for acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions that could be beneficial. As a result, we may be involved in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our financial condition (including short-term or long-term liquidity) or short-term or long-term operating results. 18 Table of Contents Should we make an error in judgment when identifying strategic transaction partners or fail to successfully execute any strategic transaction, we will likely fail to realize the benefits we intended to derive from the strategic transaction and may suffer other adverse consequences. Strategic transactions may involve a number of other risks, including: • incurrence of substantial transaction costs; • diversion of management’s attention from operating our existing business; • failure to successfully integrate any acquired operations; • charges to earnings in the event of any write-down or write-off of goodwill recorded in connection with strategic transactions; • depletion of our cash resources or incurrence of additional indebtedness to fund strategic transactions; • an adverse impact on our tax position; • assumption of liabilities of any acquired business (including unforeseen liabilities); and • imposition of additional regulatory obligations by federal or state regulators. We can give no assurance that we would be able to successfully complete any strategic transactions. Other Risks Relating to Qwest If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are described in Item 7 of this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered “critical” because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Taxing authorities may determine we owe additional taxes relating to various matters, which could adversely affect our financial results. As a significant taxpayer, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. Tax sharing agreements have been executed between us and previous affiliates, and we believe the liabilities, if any, arising from adjustments to previously filed returns would be borne by the affiliated group member determined to have a deficiency under the terms and conditions of such agreements and applicable tax law. We have not generally provided for liabilities attributable to former affiliated companies or for claims they have asserted or may assert against us. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results or our net operating loss carryforwards. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions, which represent a significant number of our employees. Our current four-year agreements with the Communications Workers of America, or CWA, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, or IBEW, expire on October 6, 2012. Although we believe that our relations with our employees and unions are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. The impact of future negotiations, including changes in wages and benefit levels, could have a material impact on our financial results. Also, if we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if significant disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The trading price of our securities has been and could continue to be volatile. The capital markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. The overall market and the trading price of our securities may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our securities may be significantly affected by various factors, including: • our pending merger with CenturyLink; • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; • broader market fluctuations; • general economic or political conditions; • acquisitions and financings including the issuance of substantial number of shares of our common stock as consideration in acquisitions; • the high concentration of shares owned by a few investors; • sale of a substantial number of shares held by the existing shareholders in the public market, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options; and • general conditions in the telecommunications industry, including regulatory developments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 