Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business, Our Financial Results and Need for Financing If we fail to obtain additional capital by the second half of 2016, we may have to end our operations and seek protection under bankruptcy laws. We expect that our current and anticipated financial resources will be adequate to maintain our current and planned operations only into the second half of 2016. We need significant additional capital to fund our continued operations, including for the commercialization efforts for our PerioPredict genetic test, continued research and development efforts, obtaining and protecting patents and administrative expenses. We have retained a financial advisor and are actively seeking additional funding, however, based on current economic conditions, additional financing may not be available, or, if available, it may not be available on favorable terms. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our existing shareholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing shareholders will result. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, tests or products in development. If we cannot obtain additional funding on acceptable terms, we may have to discontinue operations and seek protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws. There is substantial doubt concerning our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We expect to incur further losses in the development of our business and have been dependent on funding operations through the issuance of convertible debt and the sale of equity securities. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans include increasing revenue through new arrangements with commercial distribution partners and continuing to finance operations through the private or public placement of debt and/or equity securities. However, no assurance can be given at this time as to whether we will be able to achieve these objectives. The financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing revenues, or that we will receive additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. 14 The timing and amount of revenues, if any, that we may receive pursuant to any existing or future agreement we may enter into with insurance carriers or large employers is uncertain. The timing of any revenues that we may receive under any agreement we have or may enter into with an insurance carrier, large employer or other customer is very uncertain at this time and is dependent on a number of variables that are or may be beyond our control. We continue to engage in discussions for the use of our PerioPredict test with insurance companies and large employers who might ultimately adopt enhanced benefits designs or employer-sponsored wellness initiatives that incorporate PerioPredict, or utilize PerioPredict through other arrangements, through the use of consultants, channel partners and our internal management team. The failure to enter into any agreement with other insurance carriers or large employers and to receive significant revenues under any such agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and expect these losses to continue for some time. We incurred losses from operations of $6.3 million in 2014 and $7.3 million in 2015. As of December 31, 2015, our accumulated deficit was $129.0 million. Our losses result primarily from research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets. Although we generate revenues from sales of our genetic risk assessment tests, this may not be sufficient to result in net income in the foreseeable future. We will need to generate significant revenue to continue our research and development programs and achieve profitability. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will achieve profitability. The market for personalized health generally and genetic risk assessment tests in particular is unproven. The markets and customer base in the field of personalized health are not well established. Adoption of technologies in this emerging field requires substantial market development and there can be no assurance that channels for marketing our products can or will be successfully developed by us or others. As a result, there can be no assurance that our products will be successfully commercialized or that they can be sold at sufficient volumes to make them profitable. If our potential customers do not accept our products, or take a longer time to accept them than we anticipate, it will reduce our anticipated sales and materially harm our business. The market for genetic risk assessment tests, as part of the field of personalized health, is at an early stage of development and may not continue to grow. The scientific community, including us, has only a limited understanding of the role of genes in predicting disease. The success of our genetic risk assessment tests will depend upon their acceptance as being useful and cost-effective to the customers who purchase these products, the physicians and other members of the medical community who recommend or prescribe them, as well as third-party payers, such as insurance companies and the government. We can only achieve broad market acceptance with substantial education about the benefits and limitations of genetic risk assessment tests while providing the tests at a fair cost. We expect to expend significant funds and resources to educate patients, dentists and other providers, and payers on the benefits of our PerioPredict test. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully do so. Furthermore, while positive media attention resulting from new scientific studies or announcements can spur rapid growth in individual segments of the market, and also impact individual brands, news that challenges individual segments or products can have a negative impact on the industry overall as well as on sales of the challenged segments or products. The marketplace may never accept our products, and we may never be able to successfully commercialize our products, including the PerioPredict test. We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business. The field of personalized health is highly competitive. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, consumer products companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Furthermore, many of these competitors are more experienced than we are in discovering, commercializing and marketing products. These greater resources may allow our competitors to discover important genes or genetic markers and more quickly and effectively develop and commercialize genetic tests than we or our partners are able to do. If we are not able to successfully market genetic tests, either alone or through collaborations, our business will be materially harmed. We expect competition to intensify in our industry as technical advances are made and become more widely known. 15 Ethical, legal and social issues related to genetic testing may reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised concerns regarding the appropriate utilization and the confidentiality of information provided by genetic testing. Genetic tests for assessing a person’s likelihood of developing a chronic disease have focused public attention on the need to protect the privacy of genetic information. For example, concerns have been expressed that insurance carriers and employers may use these tests to discriminate on the basis of genetic information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities prohibiting genetic testing or calling for limits on or regulating the use of genetic testing, particularly for diseases for which there is no known cure. Any of these scenarios could decrease demand for our products. Technological changes may cause our tests to become obsolete. We have to date focused our efforts on genetic tests based on a small number of candidate genes and genetic variants. It is now possible to use array technology to conduct whole genome association studies for risk assessment, which may make our technologies obsolete. In order to develop customers and markets for our genetic risk assessment tests, we may be required to invest substantial additional capital and other resources. We have limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic tests on our own and will continue to depend substantially on third parties to commercialize our tests. We have limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic risk assessment tests on our own. In June 2009, we announced the launch of our new Inherent Health brand of genetic tests. On October 26, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Amway Global, an affiliate of Alticor, pursuant to which it sells our Inherent Health brand of genetics tests through its e-commerce Web site via a hyperlink to our e-commerce site. In 2015 and 2014, revenues from this agreement accounted for 45% and 44% of our revenues, respectively. In addition, beginning in September 2012 and again in 2013, Access Business Group LLC, an affiliate of Alticor, placed purchase orders totaling approximately $3.3 million consisting of weight management kits. The kits are included as part of a promotional bundle of products that Amway is now selling to their Individual Business Owners. In 2015 and 2014, revenues from this arrangement accounted for 13% and 32% of our revenues, respectively. We continue to engage in discussions for the use of our PerioPredict test with insurance companies and large employers who might ultimately adopt enhanced benefits designs or employer-sponsored wellness initiatives that incorporate PerioPredict, or utilize PerioPredict through other arrangements, through the use of consultants, channel partners and our internal management team. We have, to date, had very limited success in marketing and selling our genetic tests, including PerioPredict, and we can provide no assurance that our current or planned commercialization efforts will be successful. If we are unsuccessful in establishing additional strategic alliances, our ability to develop and market products and services may be damaged. Entering into additional strategic alliances for the development and commercialization of products and services based on our discoveries is an important element of our business strategy. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. If we fail to maintain our existing alliances or to establish additional strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements, then our ability to develop and market products and services will be damaged. In addition, the terms of any future strategic alliances may be unfavorable to us or these strategic alliances may be unsuccessful. 16 Because our products are based on emerging science, if we make changes to our tests based on new scientific findings, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our product liability insurance coverage. Our genetic test products are based on emerging science, and we continue to conduct studies to further enhance the usefulness and scientific credibility of our products. If we make changes to our tests based on new data, it could harm our credibility, decrease market acceptance of our products or expose us to liability claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but it is often difficult to obtain, is expensive and may not be available in the future on economically acceptable terms. In addition, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. We may become subject to product liability claims that, even if they are without merit, could result in significant legal defense costs to us. If we are held liable for claims for which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, those claims could materially damage our business and our financial condition. Any product liability claim against us or resulting recall of our products could create significant negative publicity. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic conditions and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption including, among other things, extreme volatility in prices of publicly traded securities, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. We believe current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our operations. Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions may cause consumers to reign in their spending generally, the impact of which may be that they stop or delay their purchases of our genetic tests and consumer products. If these circumstances persist or continue to worsen, our future operating results could be adversely affected, particularly relative to our current expectations. Our dependence on key executives and scientists could adversely impact the development and management of our business. Our success depends on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key employees, it could damage our business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled managerial and scientific personnel. The pool of personnel with the skill that we require is limited. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense. We compete with numerous pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, as well as universities and non-profit research organizations in the highly competitive Boston, Massachusetts business area. Our current senior management team is employed by us under agreements that may be terminated by them for any reason upon adequate notice. There can be no assurances, therefore, that we will be able to retain our senior executives or replace them, if necessary. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. If Pyxis or any of its affiliates enters a business in competition with ours, certain of our directors might have a conflict of interest. We have entered into an agreement with our stockholder, Pyxis (collectively, with its affiliates, the “Interested Parties”), allocating corporate opportunities as permitted under Section 122(17) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This agreement regulates and defines the conduct of certain of our affairs as they may involve the Interested Parties, and our powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of our officers and directors in connection with corporate opportunities. Except under certain circumstances, the Interested Parties have the right to engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business or have an interest in the same classes or categories of corporate opportunities as we do. If any Interested Parties or one of our directors appointed by an Interested Party acquire knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both the Interested Party and us, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Interested Party will not have a duty to inform us about the corporate opportunity. In addition, the Interested Party will not be liable to us or to other stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty as a stockholder of ours for not informing us of the corporate opportunity, keeping it for its own account, or referring it to another person. Additionally, except under limited circumstances, if an officer or employee of an Interested Party who is also one of our directors is offered a corporate opportunity, such opportunity shall not belong to us. In addition, we agreed that such director will have satisfied his duties to us and not be liable to us or to you in connection with such opportunity. 17 We may be prohibited from fully using our net operating loss carryforwards, which could affect our financial performance. As a result of the losses incurred since inception, we have not recorded a federal income tax provision and have recorded a valuation allowance against all future tax benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2015, we had gross net operating loss (NOL) and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $88.2 million and $1.6 million, respectively for federal income tax purposes, and of approximately $11.0 million and $1.0 million for state income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2035. Our ability to use these NOLs and credit carryforwards is subject to restrictions contained in the Internal Revenue Code which provide for limitations on our utilization of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards following a greater than 50% ownership change during the prescribed testing period. On March 5, 2003, we had such a change. As a result, all of our NOL carryforwards as of that date are limited as to utilization. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of certain of the carryforwards prior to utilization. In addition, our equity offerings, including those in 2013 and 2014, may have resulted in qualifying changes in ownership. A formal study, which we have not undertaken, is required to determine applicability of restrictions and might indicate that our NOL carryforwards are subject to additional limitations on utilization. In addition, in order to realize the future tax benefits of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, we must generate taxable income, of which there is no assurance. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to obtain patent protection for our products and preserve our trade secrets, then competitors may develop competing products and services, which will likely decrease our sales and market share. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain patent protection in the United States and in other countries for our products and services. In addition, our success will also depend upon our ability to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We own rights to 9 issued U.S. patents and have a number of additional U.S. patent applications pending. We have also been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S. patents and patent applications pending. Our patent positions, and those of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize products and services depends on our ability to: ·obtain patents; ·obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others; ·prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and ·protect trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may never afford meaningful protection for our technology or products or provide us with a competitive advantage. Further, others may develop competing products, which avoid legally infringing upon, or conflicting with, our patents. There is no assurance that another company will not replicate one or more of our products, and this may harm our ability to do business. In addition, competitors may challenge any patents issued to us, and these patents may subsequently be narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. From time to time, the U.S. Supreme Court, other federal courts, the U.S. Congress or the USPTO may change the standards of patentability and any such changes could have a negative impact on our business. There have been several cases involving “gene patents” and diagnostic claims that have been considered by the U.S. Supreme Court. A suit brought by multiple plaintiffs, including the American Civil Liberties Union, or ACLU, against Myriad Genetics, or Myriad, and the USPTO, could impact biotechnology and diagnostic patents. That case involves certain of Myriad’s U.S. patents related to the breast cancer susceptibility genes BRCA1 and BRCA2. The Federal Circuit issued a written decision on July 29, 2011 that reversed the decision of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York that Myriad’s composition claims to “isolated” DNA molecules cover unpatentable subject matter. The Federal Circuit court instead held that the breast cancer genes are patentable subject matter. Subsequently, on March 20, 2012, the Supreme Court issued a decision in Mayo Collaborative v. Prometheus Laboratories, or Prometheus, a case involving patent claims directed to optimizing the amount of drug administered to a specific patient. According to that decision, Prometheus’ claims failed to add enough inventive content to the underlying correlations to allow the processes they describe to qualify as patent-eligible processes that apply natural laws. The Supreme Court subsequently granted certiorari in the Myriad case, vacated the judgment, and remanded the case back to the Federal Circuit for further consideration in light of their decision in the Prometheus case. The Federal Circuit heard oral arguments on July 20, 2012, and issued a decision on August 16, 2012. The Federal Circuit reaffirmed its earlier decision and held that composition of matter claims directed to isolated nucleic acids are patent-eligible subject matter, but that method claims consisting of only abstract mental processes are not patent-eligible. On September 25, 2012, the ACLU filed a petition for a writ of certiorari asking the Supreme Court to review the Federal Circuit’s decision with respect to the composition of matter claims. On November 30, 2012, the Supreme Court granted the petition and agreed to review the case. On June 13, 2013, the Supreme Court issued a decision in the Myriad case. According to the decision, claims directed to genomic DNA cover unpatentable subject matter. However, claims directed to cDNA are patent eligible subject matter. 18 On March 4, 2014, the USPTO issued a memorandum to patent examiners providing guidelines for examining process claims for patent eligibility in view of the Supreme Court decision in Prometheus. . On December 16, 2014 an interim guidance was issued that supersedes the March 4, 2014 memorandum but essentially followed the same direction for patent eligibility. The guidance indicates that claims directed to a law of nature, a natural phenomenon, or an abstract idea that do not meet the eligibility requirements should be rejected as non-statutory subject matter. We cannot assure you that our patent portfolio will not be negatively impacted by the decision described above, rulings in other cases or changes in guidance or procedures issued by the USPTO. Congress directed the USPTO to study effective ways to provide independent, confirming genetic diagnostic test activity where gene patents and exclusive licensing for primary genetic diagnostic tests exist. This study will examine the impact that independent second opinion testing has on providing medical care to patients; the effect that providing independent second opinion genetic diagnostic testing would have on the existing patent and license holders of an exclusive genetic test; the impact of current practices on testing results and performance; and the role of insurance coverage on the provision of genetic diagnostic tests. The USPTO was directed to report the findings of the study to Congress and provide recommendations for establishing the availability of independent confirming genetic diagnostic test activity by June 16, 2012. On August 28, 2012, the Department of Commerce sent a letter to the House and Senate Judiciary Committee leadership updating them on the status of the genetic testing report. The letter stated in part: “Given the complexity and diversity of the opinions, comments, and suggestions provided by interested parties, and the important policy considerations involved, we believe that further review, discussion, and analysis are required before a final report can be submitted to Congress.” The USPTO issued a Request for Comments and Notice of Public Hearing on Genetic Diagnostic Testing on January 25, 2012, and held additional public hearings in February and March 2013. It is unclear whether the results of this study will be acted upon by the USPTO or result in Congressional efforts to change the law or process in a manner that could negatively impact our present or future patent portfolio. There can be no assurance that the Supreme Court’s decision in either the Myriad or Prometheus case will not have a negative impact gene or diagnostic patents generally or the ability of biotechnology and diagnostic companies to obtain or enforce their patents in the future. Such negative decisions by the Supreme Court could have a material adverse effect on our existing patent portfolio and our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property in the future. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, with confidentiality agreements. The third parties we contract with may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. If they do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Our competitors may discover or independently develop our trade secrets. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our costs or prevent us from developing or marketing our products or services. We may not have rights under patents or patent applications that are related to our current or proposed products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, to develop or sell any proposed products or services with patent rights controlled by third parties, our collaborators or ourselves may seek, or may be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents and patent applications. If this occurs, we may have to pay license fees, royalties or both, to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, our collaborators or we may be prohibited from developing or selling our products or services. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Tests Any tests that may be developed by us may be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. Our currently marketed tests were launched as laboratory developed tests, or LDTs, performed in our CLIA-certified clinical laboratory operating in Waltham, Massachusetts. We expect that our future LDTs will also be performed at our CLIA-certified laboratory. Although FDA believes that tests such as ours fall within its jurisdiction as medical devices, it has historically exercised enforcement discretion with respect to LDTs, meaning that such tests generally have not been subject to FDA regulatory requirements. However, the Agency’s regulatory approach to LDTs is uncertain, and whether or when FDA will issue final guidance documents implementing the agency’s proposed regulatory framework is unclear. It is also unclear how a final regulatory framework will affect our current and future tests, as the level of regulation will depend on FDA’s evaluation of the risk posed by the specific test. With respect to our LDTs that are not offered DTC, such as PerioPredict, if FDA issues final guidance implementing a risk-based regulatory framework for LDTs, we intend to comply fully and acknowledge that non-compliance may result in enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our tests and may harm our reputation. We are uncertain as to what, if any, regulatory requirements may apply to our tests in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including pre-market review or approval, will not be required in the future. 19 With respect to our Inherent Health tests, which have historically been offered DTC, FDA has informed us that these tests are not LDTs and are not subject to enforcement discretion. We and FDA are in the midst of discussing appropriate next steps for these tests. It is unclear which, if any, of these tests will be permitted to continue to be offered DTC, or for how long. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including pre-market review or approval, will not be required for these tests in the future. If the FDA requires us to obtain clearance through its 510k premarket notification process or obtain approval through its premarket approval, or PMA process, either as a condition of continuing to market our tests or bringing future tests to market, our business could be negatively impacted. Requiring FDA clearance or approval could be lengthy, costly and burdensome. In addition, depending upon the FDA’s response to a submission we may be required to stop selling our tests, revise our tests significantly, or delay introduction of new tests. Additionally, if our tests become subject to more active regulation as medical devices by the FDA, we would be required to comply with requirements including establishment registration, device listing, adverse event reporting, and good manufacturing practices. We would also be subject to penalties, including seizure and injunction, for noncompliance with FDA requirements. Complying with FDA requirements could add additional costs and burdens to our operations. We are subject to government regulation which may significantly increase our costs and delay introduction of our products. We are subject to a variety of federal and state legal requirements including CLIA, the FD&C Act, state clinical laboratory licensure laws and implementing regulations. The growth of our business may increase the potential of being found in violation of these laws. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is further increased by the fact that the technologies at issue are new and the applicability of statutory and regulatory provisions to these technologies has not been fully developed, implemented, or subjected to judicial review, and the statutory and regulatory provisions themselves are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us, or any business partners, for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we or they successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If their or our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, they or we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines, and they or we could be required to curtail or cease operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business and our financial results. If we do not comply with governmental regulations applicable to our CLIA-certified laboratory, we may not be able to continue our operations. The establishment and operation of our laboratory is subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States. The laboratory holds a CLIA certificate of compliance and is licensed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and other states as required, which enables us to provide testing services to residents of all states. Failure to comply with state regulations or changes in state regulatory requirements, could result in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of the operations of our laboratory and could have a material adverse effect on our business. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on human specimens for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. To renew CLIA certification, laboratories are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make unannounced inspections of these laboratories. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or our state licenses, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, we would no longer be able to continue our testing operations which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 Tests based on our technology may require clinical trial testing, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. If the FDA decides to require pre-market clearance or approval of LDT’s, we may be required to perform clinical trials prior to submitting a marketing application. If we are required to conduct clinical trials, whether using prospectively acquired tissue samples or archival samples, delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly increase development costs and delay commercialization. The commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population and the nature of the disease or condition being studied. Future therapeutic collaborators, if any, may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of any therapeutic product that they may develop. If, in the future, we enter into any collaborations relating to the use of our technology in the development of therapeutic products, any therapeutic products that our collaborators may develop will be subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new therapeutic product can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals for therapeutic products is unpredictable but typically exceeds several years. It is possible that none of the therapeutic products our collaborators may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. In addition, if the use of any test that we develop is necessary for the safe use of a collaborator’s therapeutic product, we might be required to obtain clearance or approval of our test. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a therapeutic product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the therapeutic product. Any therapeutic product that our collaborators may develop will also be subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, approval by the FDA of a therapeutic product does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States or vice versa. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our tests and may harm our reputation. If we in the future fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the ability to successfully develop, market and sell our tests and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of such tests or products by the market. These enforcement actions could include: ·warning letters; ·recalls, public notification or medical device safety alerts; ·restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing such tests or products; ·product seizures; ·injunctions; ·civil penalties, including monetary fines; and ·criminal penalties. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous and chemicals materials, and we maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities. We believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our facilities comply with the relevant local and Federal guidelines. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 21 Changes in healthcare policy could impact commercialization of our tests. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the ACA, became law. This law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. The ACA contains a number of provisions that may impact our business and operations in ways we cannot currently predict. In particular, we believe that the ACA may impact adoption of Reimbursed Dental Plans and other reimbursed insurance plans that include our PerioPredict® test because there is uncertainty in the cost of compliance with the ACA and how that may impact employer coverage for adult dental care in their overall benefits plan. In addition to the ACA, there will likely continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to reduce costs while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose additional limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our tests or the amounts of reimbursement available for our tests from governmental agencies or third-party payors. While in general it is too early to predict specifically what effect the ACA or any future healthcare reform legislation or policies will have on our business, current and future healthcare reform legislation and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is listed on the OTCQB, which could result in a limited market for our common stock. Our common stock was listed on the NYSE Amex until August 16, 2010, when it was suspended for failure to comply with the NYSE Amex continued listing standards. Our common stock then began trading on the OTCQB™ under the symbol ILIU. This delisting could hurt our investors by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Additionally, the delisting could negatively affect us by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to raise capital. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. In the three years ended December 31, 2015, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $0.01 to a high of $0.55. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant volatility. The volatility of stocks for companies in our industry often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: ·the commercial success of the PerioPredict test; ·demand for and acceptance of our products; ·our ability to develop new relationships and maintain and enhance existing relationships with strategic partners; ·regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; ·developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; ·introduction of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; ·failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations, or the issuance of equity securities at prices below fair market price; 22 ·changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; ·litigation; ·future sales of our common stock; ·general market conditions; ·economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; ·period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and ·overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Our management and their affiliates own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of March 1, 2016, our executive officers, directors and their respective affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 43.9% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of entrenching our management and/or the board of directors, delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the fair market value of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares of common stock, which you may only be able to do at a loss. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently prohibited by the terms of the Loan Agreement with Horizon Technology Finance Corporation, and any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Therefore, you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares, which you may only be able to do at a loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 