Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors which appear below could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall economic and industry conditions, especially in the Eastern United States where all of our clubs are located, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, terrorism, major health concerns or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material also may impair our business results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Competition May Adversely Affect Our Profitability We compete with a wide range of national, regional and local retailers and wholesalers selling food and/or general merchandise in our markets. Some of these competitors, including two major competitors (Sam’s Clubs (a division of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.) and Costco Wholesale Corporation) who operate on a multi-national basis, have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than BJ’s. These retailers and wholesalers compete in a variety of ways, including price, location, services offered to customers and merchandise selection. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or future competitors. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive factors may have an adverse effect on our profitability as a result of lower sales and increased operating costs. Credit May Not Be Available or Affordable The recent deterioration of the global credit and financial markets may affect our ability to obtain future financing as well as make it more expensive to obtain such financing. While we believe that our current resources, together with anticipated cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to finance our operations in the future, we may need to obtain additional resources. We cannot assure you that we can obtain such resources, or obtain them at a reasonable cost. Not obtaining additional credit at a reasonable cost may negatively affect our ability to invest in capital expenditures, repurchase stock, and limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business. New Store Openings are Critical to Our Growth Our long-term sales and income growth is dependent to a certain degree on our ability to open new clubs and gasoline stations in both existing markets and new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion on a timely and profitable basis. Our expansion is dependent on finding suitable locations, which may be affected by local regulations and construction and development costs and competition from other retailers for particular sites. If prospective landlords find it difficult to obtain credit, we may need to own more new clubs in lieu of leasing them. Owned locations require more initial capital, and therefore, such a situation may constrain our growth. In addition, we may not be able to hire, train and retain a suitable work force to staff these locations or successfully integrate new clubs into our existing infrastructure. As a result, we may be unable to open new clubs at the rates expected or operate the clubs in a profitable manner. Our Business May be Affected by Issues that Affect Consumer Spending Our results of operations may be affected by changes in economic factors that impact consumer spending. Certain economic conditions such as contraction in the financial markets, deflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy and transportation costs, insurance and health care costs, and labor costs could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to our competitors. Reduced consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our items and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. A reduction or shift in consumer spending could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Comparable Club Sales and Quarterly Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly Our comparable club sales may be adversely affected for many reasons, including new store openings by our competitors and the opening of our own new clubs that may cannibalize existing club sales. Comparable club sales may also be affected by cycling against strong sales in the prior year, by our own clubs entering into the comparable club base and by price reductions in response to competition. Our quarterly operating results may be adversely affected by a number of factors including losses in new clubs, price changes in response to competitors’ prices, increases in operating costs, weather conditions, natural disasters, local economic conditions and the timing of new club openings and related start-up costs. Our quarterly 9 Table of Contents operating results may also be affected by the volatility in gasoline and energy prices. As a result, our quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter. Certain Legal Proceedings Could Adversely Impact Our Results of Operations We are involved in a number of legal proceedings involving employment issues, personal injury, product liability, consumer matters, credit card fraud, intellectual property claims and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in material liability. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note F in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Further, we are unable to predict whether currently unknown claims may be brought against us that could become material. Union Attempts to Organize Our Team Members Could Disrupt Our Business In the past, unions have attempted to organize our team members at certain of our clubs and facilities. Our management and team members may be required to devote their time to respond to union activities, which could be distracting to our operations. Future union activities may negatively impact our business and results of operations. Adverse changes in current labor laws in this area could also impact our business if such changes foster further union activity. Insurance Claims Could Adversely Impact our Results of Operations We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation, general liability, property, fiduciary liability and employee health care and life insurance claims. Liabilities associated with risk retained by the Company are estimated based on valuation provided by third-party actuaries, historical loss development factors and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if actual future occurrences and claims differ from our assumptions and historical trends. Product Mix Could Impact our Results of Operations Changes in our product mix may negatively affect certain financial indicators. For example, we continue to add gas stations to our store base. Prices of gasoline are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in domestic and international supply and demand. Significant changes in gasoline prices may affect our sales and profit margins. Since gasoline generates low profit margin rates as compared to the remainder of our business, we could expect to see our overall gross profit margin rates decline as sales of gasoline increase. We Depend on Vendors to Supply us with Quality Merchandise at the Right Time and at the Right Price We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing, or access to new products, and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. There is a risk merchandise sold at our clubs may be recalled after being purchased by our members. In addition, sales demands may lead to insufficient in-stock positions of our merchandise. Currently, one distributor consolidates all of our perishables for shipment to our clubs. While we believe that such a consolidation is in our best interest overall, it does present some additional risk if the distributor ceases to do business with us. Implementation of Technology Initiatives Could Disrupt our Operations in the Near Term and Fail to Provide the Anticipated Benefits We have made and will continue to make significant technology investments both in our operations and in our administrative functions. The costs, potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation 10 Table of Contents of technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits; it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits; the technology might fail or cost more than anticipated. If We Do Not Maintain the Security of Member-related Information, We Could Damage our Reputation with Members, Incur Substantial Additional Costs and Become Subject to Litigation As do most retailers and wholesale club operators, we receive certain personal information about our members. In addition, our online operations at www.bjs.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our efficient operation like that of most retailers, requires the transmission of information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems or those of some of our business partners that results in our members’ personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. Non-compliance with Privacy and Information Security Laws may Damage Our Business The use of individually identifiable data by our business is regulated at the federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal or financial risk as a result of non-compliance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 