ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business inherently involves certain risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we 27 Table of Contents currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Should one or more of any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our revenue and the value of our coal reserves. Our results of operations are substantially dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. The prices we receive for our coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: • the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • the demand for electricity in the United States; • the capacity and cost of transportation facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • air emission standards for domestic and foreign coal-fired power plants; • regulatory, administrative and judicial decisions that affect the coal mining industry; • the price and availability of alternative fuels, including the effects of technological developments; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • the supply of and demand for metallurgical coal. Any one or more of the foregoing factors could adversely affect the sale prices we may be able to obtain for our coal. Declines in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our operating results and our revenue. Any change in coal demand by U.S. electric power generators that results in a decrease in the use of coal could result in lower prices for our coal, which would reduce our revenue and adversely impact our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Demand for our coal and the prices that we may obtain for our coal are closely linked to coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric generation industry, which has accounted for approximately 92% of domestic coal consumption in recent years according to the EIA. The amount of coal consumed for U.S. electric power generation is influenced by factors beyond our control, including: • the overall demand for electricity, which is significantly dependent upon general economic conditions and summer and winter temperatures in the United States; • environmental and government regulation; • technological developments; and • the location, availability, quality and price of competing sources of coal, alternative fuels such as natural gas, oil and nuclear and alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power. 28 Table of Contents Demand for our low sulfur coal and the prices that we will be able to obtain for it will also be affected by the price and availability of high sulfur coal, which can be marketed in tandem with emissions allowances in order to meet Clean Air Act requirements. In addition, the requirements of the Clean Air Act may result in more electric power generations shifting from coal to natural gas-fired power plans. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators could reduce the price of steam coal that we produce, thereby reducing our revenue and adversely affecting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Our coal mining production is subject to conditions and events beyond our control, which could result in higher operating expenses or decreased production and adversely affect our operating results. Our coal mining operations are conducted in underground mines and at surface mines. The level of our production at these mines is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the costs of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. Adverse operating conditions and events that we may experience include: • unexpected variations in geological conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • interruptions due to transportation delays; • unexpected delays and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits or mining or surface rights; • unavailability of mining equipment and supplies and increases in the price of mining equipment and supplies; • shortage of qualified labor and a significant rise in labor costs; • fluctuations in the cost of industrial supplies, including steel-based supplies, natural gas, diesel fuel and oil; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • unexpected or accidental surface subsidence from underground mining; • accidental mine water discharges, fires, explosions or similar mining accidents; • regulatory issues involving the plugging of and mining through oil and gas wells that penetrate the coal seams we mine; and • the cost of surety bonds and the collateral required for our mining complexes is increasing and the surety bonds are becoming more difficult to obtain. If any of these conditions or events occur in the future at any of our mining complexes, particularly our Black Thunder mine, our cost of mining and any delay or halt of production either permanently or for varying lengths of time could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we do not have insurance covering 29 Table of Contents certain of these conditions or events or if the insurance coverage we have is limited or excludes certain of these conditions or events, then we may not be able to recover any of the losses we may incur as a result of such conditions or events, some of which may be substantial. Increases in the price of steel and petroleum products and a shortage of tires used in our mining operations could significantly affect our operating profitability. Our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel and tires. The price of scrap steel, which is used in making roof bolts and required by the room and pillar method of mining, has risen significantly in recent months. During 2005, the costs of diesel fuel, explosives and coal trucking increased as a direct result of supply chain problems related to Hurricane Katrina’s devastation in Mississippi and Louisiana and Hurricane Rita’s destruction in Texas and Louisiana. There may be other acts of nature that could also increase the costs of raw materials. We have also recently experienced a shortage in rubber tires, which are used on the trucks and heavy machinery with which we operate our mines. If the price of steel, petroleum products or other materials remains high or continues to increase and if tires continue to remain in short supply, our operational expenses will remain high or increase and our production could be affected, which could have a significant negative impact on our profitability. There is a shortage of skilled coal mining workers, and as a result we are facing significantly higher labor costs as well as competition for workers from other coal producers. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled workers, preferably with at least one year of experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. Increased demand for coal and the increase in the market price for such coal in recent years has caused a resurgence of mining activity. Consequently, there has been a significant tightening of the labor supply and an increase in the turnover of the labor force as coal producers compete with each other for skilled personnel. In recent years, a shortage of trained coal miners has caused us to operate certain units without full staff, which has decreased our productivity and increased our costs. We are currently experiencing increasing labor costs, especially with regard to state certified electricians who are in short supply. We employ certain drug testing programs and take appropriate corrective actions that include terminating or suspending workers caught abusing drugs. This causes us to lose otherwise skilled workers and puts further pressure on what is already a tight labor supply. In addition, because of the shortage of experienced miners, we have hired novice miners, who are required to be accompanied by experienced workers as a safety precaution. These measures adversely affect the productivity of our workers as well as the operating efficiency of our mining complexes. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens and if our labor costs continue to rise, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production. Disruption in supplies of coal produced by our contract mine operators could temporarily impair our ability to fill customers’ orders or increase our costs. We utilize independent contractors to operate certain of our mining complexes, including select operations at our Coal-Mac, Cumberland River and Mingo Logan mining complexes. Operational difficulties at contractor-operated mines, changes in demand for contract miners from other coal producers and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, pricing, and quality of coal produced for us by contractors. 30 Table of Contents Disruption in our supply of contractor-produced coal could temporarily impair our ability to fill our customers’ orders or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain the required coal from other sources. Any increase in the prices we pay for contractor-produced coal could increase our costs and, therefore, reduce our profitability. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenue or higher than expected costs. We base our forecasts of future performance on, among other things, estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. We base our estimates of reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by internal and third party engineers and reviewed periodically by third party consultants. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of, and costs to mine, recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions include: • unexpected geological and mining conditions which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or drill hole density and may differ from our experiences in areas we currently mine; • future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes, royalties and development and reclamation costs; • future mining technology improvements; and • the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenue and expenditure with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. As a result, these estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenue, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of any lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. Because title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property, our right to mine some of our reserves has in the past, and may again in the future, be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In order to obtain leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we have had to, and may in the future have to, incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases or mining contracts 31 Table of Contents for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. Some leases have minimum production requirements. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability and reliability of transportation facilities could affect the demand for our coal or temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. We depend upon barge, rail, truck and belt transportation systems to deliver coal to our customers. Disruption of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, and other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased shipments. Decreased performance levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs, negatively affecting our revenue and profitability. We have no long-term contracts with transportation providers to ensure consistent and reliable service. In addition, increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from fluctuations in the price of gasoline and diesel fuel, could make coal a less competitive source of energy when compared to alternative fuels such as natural gas or could make our coal production less competitive than coal produced in other regions of the United States or abroad. If there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by the railroad companies we use, or if rail transport costs rise significantly and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers to ship our coal, our business could be adversely affected. Acquisitions that we may undertake would involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result. We continually seek to expand our operations and coal reserves through acquisitions of businesses and assets, including leases of coal reserves. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates; • the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; • the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; • problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of businesses or assets or could result in unexpected liabilities associated with these acquisition candidates. 32 Table of Contents Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. We control substantial undeveloped reserves and have not identified the equipment or workforce that will be employed to mine these reserves. Permits have been obtained for some of these undeveloped reserves. We expect to obtain the required remaining permits by the time we commence mining these reserves, but we may be unable to do so at all or within the necessary time period. Some of the required permits are becoming increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the application review processes are taking longer to complete and becoming increasingly subject to challenge. We may not be able to mine all our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our planned development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves, and we may not have continuing success developing new mines or expanding existing mines beyond our existing reserve base. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by our customers. Because the amount of coal in our reserves decline as we mine our coal, our future success and growth depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be available at commercially attractive prices or be capable of being mined at comparable costs. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to obtain other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms. Our profitability may be adversely affected by our commitments under long-term coal supply contracts and changes in purchasing patterns in the coal industry may make it difficult for us to extend existing contracts or to enter into long-term supply contracts. We sell a substantial portion of our coal under long-term coal supply agreements, which we define as contracts with a term greater than 12 months. The prices for coal shipped under these contracts is fixed for the initial year of the contract and may be subject to certain adjustments in later years. As a result, the prices for coal shipped under these contracts may be below the current market price for similar-type coal at any given time, depending on the timeframe of the contract execution or initiation. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we sold approximately 70% of the total tons sold pursuant to long-term coal supply agreements. As a consequence of the substantial volume of our sales that are subject to these long-term agreements, we have less coal available with which to capitalize on higher coal prices if and when they arise. In addition, in some cases, our ability to realize the higher prices that may be available in the open market may be restricted when customers elect to purchase higher volumes under some contracts. When our current contracts with customers expire or are otherwise renegotiated, our customers may decide not to extend or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, our 33 Table of Contents customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including under different pricing terms. Furthermore, uncertainty caused by laws and regulations affecting electric utilities, including the Clean Air Act, could deter our customers from entering into long-term coal supply agreements. To the degree that we operate outside of long-term contracts, our revenues are subject to pricing in the coal open market, which can be significantly more volatile than the pricing structure negotiated through a long-term coal supply agreement. This volatility could adversely affect the profitability of our operations if open market pricing for coal becomes unfavorable. For additional information relating to these contracts, you should see “Business — Coal Supply Contracts” under Item 1. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 29% of our total coal revenues from sales to our three largest customers, Tennessee Valley Authority, American Electric Power and Progress Fuels, and approximately 53% of our total coal revenues from sales to our ten largest customers. At December 31, 2005, we had coal supply agreements with those ten customers that expire at various times from 2006 to 2017. We intend to discuss the extension of existing agreements or entering into new long-term agreements with those and other customers, but the negotiations may not be successful, and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply agreements, or at all. If any of those customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our revenues and profitability could suffer materially. Certain provisions in our long-term supply agreements may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions or may result in economic penalties upon the failure to meet specifications. Coal supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or our customers during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as heat value, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, purchasing replacement coal in the higher priced open market, the rejection of deliveries or, in the extreme, termination of the contracts. Consequently, due to the risks mentioned above with respect to long-term supply agreements, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from these sales commitments. We have a significant amount of debt relative to our total capitalization, which limits our flexibility and imposes restrictions on us, and a downturn in economic or industry conditions may materially affect our ability to meet our future financial commitments and liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2005, we had consolidated indebtedness of approximately $982.4 million, representing approximately 45% of our total capitalization. We also have significant lease and royalty obligations. Our ability to satisfy our debt, lease and royalty obligations, and our ability to refinance our indebtedness, will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions in the markets that we serve and financial, business and other factors, many of which are 34 Table of Contents beyond our control. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings or other financing may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our future financial obligations or our other liquidity needs. The amount and terms of our debt could have material consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt covenants and debt service, lease payment and other obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general operating requirements; • reducing the availability of cash flow from operations to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general operating purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage when compared to competitors with less relative amounts of debt. Despite these significant levels of indebtedness, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which would heighten the risks described above. If our assumptions regarding our likely future expenses related to benefits for non-active employees are incorrect, then expenditures for these benefits could be materially higher than we have predicted. We are subject to long-term liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with current and former employees. These obligations have been estimated based on actuarial assumptions, including: • actuarial estimates; • assumed discount rates; • estimates of mine lives; • expected returns on pension plan assets; and • changes in health care costs. If our assumptions relating to these benefits change in the future or are incorrect, we may be required to record additional expenses, which would reduce our profitability. In addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material adverse affect on our financial results. You should see Note 12 — Employee Benefit Plans to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders for more information about these assumptions. 35 Table of Contents Increased consolidation and competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. During the last several years, the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. According to the NMA, in 1994, the top ten coal producers accounted for approximately 45% of total domestic coal production. By 2004, however, the top ten coal producers’ share had increased to approximately 69% of total domestic coal production, according to the NMA. Consequently, some of our competitors in the domestic coal industry are major coal producers who have greater financial resources than we do. The intense competition among coal producers may impact our ability to retain or attract customers and may, therefore, adversely affect our future revenue and profitability. Recent increases in coal prices could encourage the development of expanded coal producing capacity in the United States. Any resulting overcapacity from existing or new competitors could reduce coal prices and, therefore, our revenue. We may be unable to comply with restrictions imposed by our credit facilities and other financing arrangements which could result in a default under these agreements. The agreements governing our outstanding debt and our accounts receivable securitization program impose a number of restrictions on us. For example, the terms of our credit facilities, leases and other financing arrangements contain financial and other covenants that create limitations on our ability to, among other things, borrow the full amount under our credit facilities, effect acquisitions or dispositions and incur additional debt, and require us to, among other things, maintain various financial ratios and comply with various other financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to comply with these restrictions. A failure to comply with these restrictions could adversely affect our ability to borrow under our credit facilities or result in an event of default under these agreements. In the event of a default, our lenders and the counterparties to our other financing arrangements could terminate their commitments to us and declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and fees, immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we might not be able to pay these amounts, or we might be forced to seek an amendment to our financing arrangements which could make the terms of these arrangements more onerous for us. Changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our costs and expenses. On October 15, 2004, Moody’s downgraded our credit ratings, including the ratings on our outstanding senior notes, to Ba3 with a stable outlook. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs, more restrictive covenants and the extension of less open credit. This in turn could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore operational decisions. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers’ compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. These bonds are typically re-priced annually but are non-cancellable by the surety. 36 Table of Contents Surety bond issuers and holders may increase premiums associated with the bonds or impose other less favorable terms upon those renewals. The ability of surety bond issuers and holders to demand additional collateral or other less favorable terms has increased as the number of companies willing to issue these bonds has decreased over time. Our failure to maintain, or our inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors including: • lack of availability, higher expenses or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; • restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third party surety bond issuers under the terms of our credit facility; and • insufficient borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility or our receivable securitization facility for additional letters of credit. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may materially adversely affect our operations and those of our customers. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Regulation Federal and state governments extensively regulate our mining operations, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. The coal mining industry is subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to matters such as: • the discharge of materials into the environment; • employee health and safety; • mine permitting and licensing requirements; • reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed; • management of materials generated by mining operations; • surface subsidence from underground mining; 37 Table of Contents • water pollution; • statutorily mandated benefits for current and retired coal miners; • air quality standards; • protection of wetlands; • endangered plant and wildlife protection; • limitations on land use; • storage and disposal of petroleum products and substances that are regarded as hazardous under applicable laws; and • management of electrical equipment containing PCBs. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. We may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. If we incur significant costs and liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. You should see “Business — Environmental Matters” under Item 1. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Such regulations, if enacted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for our operations, which would reduce our production, cash flow and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits that strictly regulate environmental and health and safety matters in connection with coal mining including permits issued by various federal and state agencies and regulatory bodies. We believe that we have obtained the necessary permits to mine our developed reserves at our mining complexes. However, as we commence mining our undeveloped reserves, we will need to apply for and obtain the required permits. The permitting rules are complex and change frequently, making our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or even impossible, thereby precluding continuing or future mining operations. Private individuals and the public at large have certain rights to comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need for our mining operations may not be issued, or, if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that may be changed or interpreted in a manner which restricts our 38 Table of Contents ability to conduct our mining operations or to do so profitably. An inability to conduct our mining operations pursuant to applicable permits would reduce our production, cash flow and profitability. The Clean Air Act affects us and our customers, and could increase the cost of coal production and/or reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and thereby cause our sales and profitability to decline. The Clean Air Act regulates coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Direct impacts on coal mining and processing operations may occur through Clean Air Act permitting requirements and/or emission control requirements, including requirements relating to particulate matter. The Clean Air Act indirectly affects coal mining operations by extensively regulating the air emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and other compounds emitted by coal-fired electricity generating plants. Clean Air Act requirements that may directly or indirectly affect our operations or those of our electric utility customer base, and which could cause them to reduce their coal usage, include: • reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions imposed by Title IV of the Clean Air Act; • reduction of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and ozone emissions under EPA National Ambient Air Quality Standards; • reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions under the NOx SIP Call program; • reduction of nitrous oxide, sulfur dioxide, and mercury emissions by power plants through “cap-and-trade” programs under the Clear Skies Initiative; • reduction of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions under the Clean Air Interstate Rule; • reduction of and permanent cap on mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants under the Utility Mercury Reductions Rule; • potential reduction of carbon dioxide emissions that could result from ongoing state lawsuits against the EPA; and • reduction requirements for regional haze around national parks and national wilderness areas. The potential negative effects of these emissions and other requirements on our business include: • reduction in demand for our coal by electric utilities, our largest customers, due to increased compliance requirements, which could impose significant capital expenditure and costs on coal-fired electricity generation; • reduction in demand for our coal due to decisions by our customers to replace outdated coal plants with, or to construct new plants using, alternative fuel technologies, due to increased capital expenditure, cost or permitting restrictions; and • increased costs to us of coal mining and/or processing due to permitting requirements and/or emission control requirements relating to particulate matter. Any resulting decrease in the demand for our coal will adversely affect our business and our results of operations. 39 Table of Contents We have significant reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by our management and engineers. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” requires that retirement obligations be recorded as a liability based on fair value, which is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. In estimating future cash flows, we considered the estimated current cost of reclamation and applied inflation rates and a third-party profit, as necessary. The third-party profit is an estimate of the approximate markup that would be charged by contractors for work performed on our behalf. Our resulting liability could change significantly if actual costs differ from our assumptions. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We are not subject to material claims arising out of contamination at our facilities or other locations, but may incur such liabilities in the future. We maintain extensive coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at a number of our mining complexes. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Slurry impoundments have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry into the surrounding environment. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals; a condition referred to as “acid mine drainage,” which we refer to as AMD. The treating of AMD can be costly. Although we do not currently face material costs associated with AMD, it is possible that we could incur significant costs in the future. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us. 40 Table of Contents Judicial rulings that restrict how we may dispose of mining wastes could significantly increase our operating costs, discourage customers from purchasing our coal, and materially harm our financial condition and operating results. To dispose of mining overburden generated by our surface mining operations, we often need to obtain permits to construct and operate valley fills and surface impoundments. Some of these permits are “nationwide” permits (as opposed to individual permits) issued by the Army Corps of Engineers for dredging and filling in streams and wetlands. Lawsuits challenging the Army Corps of Engineers’ authority to issue Nationwide Permit 21 have been instituted by environmental groups. In 2004, a federal court issued an order enjoining the Army Corps of Engineers from issuing further Nationwide 21 permits in the Southern District of West Virginia, although such ruling has not affected the ability of mining operations to seek and apply for individual permits for mining activities. The decision was appealed and has subsequently been remanded to the district court for further consideration. We cannot predict the final outcomes of this lawsuit. If mining methods at issue are limited or prohibited, it could significantly increase our operational costs, make it more difficult to economically recover a significant portion of our reserves and lead to a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to increase the price we charge for coal to cover higher production costs without reducing customer demand for our coal. You should see the section entitled “Contingencies” appearing in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in our Annual Report to Stockholders for more information about the litigation described above. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 