risk factors and genetic information is being collected from participants to assess the frequency of preventive visits that is consistent with maintenance of proper periodontal health in patients classified as either low-risk or high-risk for periodontitis progression. The study’s primary efficacy outcome is tooth loss at 15 years for individuals with 1 versus 2 visits per year at low risk (PST negative, non-smokers, non-diabetics). Additional endpoints in the high risk population are included in the trial design. This study is being funded by Renaissance Health Service Corporation, a nonprofit organization focused on the advancement of oral health. Renaissance is the exclusive distributor of the Delta Dental brand in seven states with approximately 8 million covered lives. Patient enrollment was completed in March 2012 and we expect all study samples to be processed by April 2012. The University of Michigan is solely responsible for the data analysis and we expect top line results within a few months of when they begin the analysis. 9 Genetic Test Pipeline In addition to the genetic tests listed above that we are currently marketing, we are also focusing our genetic test development efforts on the following programs: ·Osteoarthritis Genetic Test — North America populations; Medical channel ·Periodontal Disease Genetic Test (version 2.0) — North America and International populations; Medical and Dental channel Osteoarthritis Genetic Test Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common adult joint disease, increasing in frequency and severity in all aging populations. The estimated U.S. prevalence is 20-40 million patients or 5 times that of rheumatoid arthritis. The most common forms of OA involve the hand, knee, hip and spine. Total knee replacements number over 250,000 per year and total hip replacements number over 300,000 per year in the United States. OA may involve a single joint or multiple joints in the same individual, with current therapy focused on pain relief, as there is no FDA-approved therapy that arrests or reverses the joint deterioration. The etiology of OA is multifactorial involving both mechanical and biochemical factors. OA progression is associated with accelerated cartilage degradation leading to joint space narrowing, painful joint disruption, and functional compromise. OA disease progression is characterized by a proinflammatory gene expression pattern in cartilage and in joint synovial fluid, with a reactive increase in bone density in the subchondral bone. Large amounts of data provide support for a central role of interleukins in the pathogenesis of OA including animal susceptibility models, models of IL-1-targeted therapy, genetic association studies, and elevated interleukin gene expression in patients with generalized OA. Genetic variations in the interleukin-1 gene cluster have been previously determined to be associated with multiple clinical phenotypes in OA. Our OA program plans to investigate whether interleukin gene variations together with several other inflammatory gene variations is associated with the occurrence of multijoint OA for the development of a genetic risk assessment test. In November 2009, we published new findings on the genetics of OA in the Annals of Rheumatic Diseases.We reported that a panel of genetic markers was highly predictive of which patients with knee OA were likely to develop severe disease as they age. The studies were done as a collaboration between Interleukin and New York University Hospital for Joint Diseases. In November 2010 the Company and the Thurston Arthritis Research Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill announced findings from a 1,154-patient longitudinal study to evaluate the role of genetic factors in OA progression. The new data replicated the findings reported previously by Interleukin Genetics and showed that specific proprietary patterns of IL-1 receptor antagonist gene variations predicted knee OA progression. In addition, we reported that patients with radiographic signs of early knee osteoarthritis were genetically different from those without radiographic signs of the disease and progressed to moderate or severe OA at a much greater frequency. Of those individuals who were completely free of radiographic signs of knee OA at the onset of the study, only 8.5 percent progressed to moderate or severe disease, whereas 33 percent of those with very early radiographic signs of disease exhibited progression. Those with early signs of OA were more likely than those who had no signs of disease to carry certain genetic factors, including variations in both the IL-1 receptor antagonist gene (IL1RA) and the DVWA gene that is involved in collagen formation. The combination of early radiographic signs of disease and carriage of gene variations associated with OA progression appears to identify individuals at increased risk for severe OA. We have filed patent applications on these findings. On September 21, 2010, we and researchers from The Thurston Arthritis Research Center announced findings from a large clinical study to evaluate the role of genetic factors in osteoarthritis progression which showed patients with radiographic evidence of knee osteoarthritis who inherited a specific pattern of genetic variations in the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) gene were almost twice as likely to progress to severe disease as other patients. Results from the study, which followed 1,154 patients for up to 11 years, were presented at the World Congress on Osteoarthritis in Brussels, Belgium. We believe this information may allow pharmaceutical companies that are developing the first disease-modifying drugs (DMOADs) for OA to screen patients and include in their clinical trials only those patients who have progressive disease. There is currently no mechanism for selecting high risk patients, and multiple clinical DMOAD studies have failed due to excessive numbers of patients with no progression of disease. The results may be useful for setting the dose of hyaluronic acids in the treatment of osteoarthritis pain. The genetic test could help identify those patients who need increased frequency dosing regimens or higher doses of the compound. This genetic information may also assist the rheumatologist in managing the medical and surgical options of individual patients. Additional studies identified a different set of genetic markers that were predictive of which patients started with knee OA and subsequently developed hand problems. We intend to search for marketing and sales partners to introduce the tests into the medical channel. 10 Periodontal Disease Genetic Test (version 2.0) For certain populations the frequency of the risk allele is low in the current PST test. The new PST genetic test in development is predictive of severe disease and tooth loss for all ethnic populations. Results from several previous clinical studies indicate that certain inflammatory cytokine levels in the gingival crevicular fluid were significantly higher in PST positive patients than in patients who were PST negative. PST testing need only be done once in a lifetime and identifies “at risk” patients early on to enable targeted treatment. This objective information allows the dentist and hygienist to better guide treatment to reduce complications and costs associated with more severe periodontitis. The test also helps to establish long-term patient relationships based on the patient’s genetic predisposition. On November 1, 2011 we initiated two clinical studies to demonstrate the utility of the test in the ethnic Chinese population. The programs are being conducted in collaboration with Kaohsiung Medical University and Shanghai Stomatological Disease Center. Laboratory Testing Procedure To conduct a genetic risk assessment test, the end-user collects cells from inside the cheek on a brush and submits it by mail to our laboratory. Samples are processed only with a requisition signed by either a customer’s physician or one provided by Interleukin Genetics. Our clinical laboratory then performs the test using our protocols. Depending on the regulations in the particular state or (in Canada) province, test results are provided to the customer and/or designated health care provider. During 2004, we completed the construction of our genetic testing laboratory (for which we obtained CLIA certification in 2005) to process the test samples. The regulatory requirements associated with a clinical laboratory are addressed under the section titled “Government Regulation.” In early 2007, we obtained a clinical laboratory permit from the State of New York, which is exempt from CLIA and maintains its own laboratory certification program, for our Cardiovascular Genetic test. In 2009 we upgraded the systems and processes for the laboratory with the addition of high volume analytical equipment. In addition, in 2009 we received approval to market and distribute our PST test in the State of New York. Marketing and Distribution Strategy We market our Inherent Health® brand of genetic tests using our e-commerce website and under contract with Amway and several regional weight management focused organizations. We also market and distribute our PST® tests directly to dentists and periodontists via Quest Diagnostic's subsidiary, OralDNA Labs in the US. In Spain and Portugal, we market our Heart Health test with LABEC Pharma under the brand name CardioHealth™. In Turkey we market our weight management test via the Turkish firm, eLabs. Our partners are responsible for regulatory compliance in the foreign territories in which they sell. If the clinical study with the University of Michigan has positive results, we believe we would be able to obtain reimbursement coverage for the test from Renaissance Health Services Corporation and other Delta Dental companies. In December 2011 we entered in to an agreement with Renaissance Health Services Corporation to initiate a pilot program to determine the feasibility of marketing the PST genetic test to employees through their dental benefit plans. Beginning on January 1, 2012, the test was offered to select dental group employees affiliated with Renaissance. Employees are able to obtain the test through a secure website at no cost to the employee. The processing of the tests is billed to Renaissance. We intend to continue to partner with domestic and foreign distributors for the sale of our genetic tests. Additionally, we are in discussions with large organizations with large dental sales forces. These organizations have expressed interest in “detailing” the test to dentists. E-commerce In 2009, we invested in the development and creation of a complete e-commerce solution for our Inherent Health® brand of genetic tests, www.inherenthealth.com. We have subcontracted with a fulfillment center to distribute tests to customers ordering via our online store. The e-commerce solution has provided a friendly and easy to use method for the purchase of our genetic tests. We are partnered with a number of websites that have established a link to our site in order to distribute tests. We pay these sites commissions for all orders made via a click through from their site to ours. 11 Partnerships with Academic Researchers We have (or have had) research collaborations with Stanford University, University of Sheffield (UK), Tufts University, New York University, Harvard University, the Mayo Clinic, California Pacific Medical Center, Boston University, the University of Arkansas, Tongji Medical College (China), University of North Carolina and Yonsei University (Korea). Through these collaborations, we have been able to take advantage of research conducted by these third parties in connection with the development of our genetic risk assessment tests and other possible products. Competition – Genetic Tests The competition in the field of personalized health is changing. The markets and customer base are not well established. There are a number of companies involved in identifying and commercializing genetic markers. The companies differ in product end points and target customers. There are companies that market individual condition genetic tests for complex diseases to consumers and those that sell only to physicians. There are companies that market testing services for rare monogenic diseases mainly to physicians. There are companies that sell genome scanning services to provide customers (usually the consumer directly) reports on large numbers of SNPs or the person’s entire genome. There are also technology platform companies that sell SNP testing equipment. The key competitive factors affecting the success of any genetic test is its perceived benefit by the user, price (potentially including availability of reimbursement) and the level of market acceptance. In the case of newly introduced products requiring “change of behavior” (such as genetic risk assessment tests), we believe the presence of multiple competitors may accelerate market acceptance and penetration through increasing awareness. Moreover, two different genetic risk assessment tests for the same disease may in fact test or measure different components, and thus, actually be complementary when given in parallel as an overall assessment of risk, rather than being competitive with each other. Furthermore, the primary focus of most companies in the field is performing gene-identification research for pharmaceutical companies for therapeutic purposes, with genetic risk assessment testing being a secondary goal. In contrast, our primary business focus is developing and commercializing genetic risk assessment tests for health risks and forward-integrating these tests with additional products and services. For a discussion of the risks associated with competition, see “Risks Related to Our Business, Our Financial Results and Need for Financing - We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business.” under "Risk Factors" below in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Government Regulation We believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable government regulations. We cannot predict what new legislation or regulations governing our operations will be enacted by legislative bodies or promulgated by agencies that regulate its activities, or what changes in interpretations of existing regulations may be adopted. CLIA and Other Laboratory Licensure Laboratories that perform testing on human specimens for the purpose of providing information for diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease or assessment of health are subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA).This law imposes quality standards for clinical laboratories to ensure the accuracy and reliability of patient test results. The particular requirements for a clinical laboratory under CLIA depends on the level of complexity of the testing performed, with moderate and high complexity laboratories subject to more requirements than laboratories performing only low complexity testing. Genetic tests are considered high complexity under CLIA. Requirements for laboratories performing high complexity testing can include quality control and quality assurance requirements, personnel standards, and the requirement to perform proficiency testing. Laboratories must renew certification every two years, which typically includes an inspection of the laboratory. Our laboratory was most recently inspected in October 2011 and no deficiencies or issues were noted and our CLIA license was renewed. In addition to CLIA certification, some states require clinical laboratories operating in those states or testing samples from those states to comply with state licensure requirements. In particular, New York State is exempt from the CLIA program and operates its own licensing program with more stringent standards than CLIA. 12 Food and Drug Administration Laboratory Developed Tests. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates components used by clinical laboratories to develop genetic and other laboratory tests, including general purpose reagents, analyte specific reagents and in vitro diagnostic test kits. Additionally, FDA historically has taken the position that tests developed in-house by a laboratory and used by that laboratory to provide testing services, so called “laboratory developed tests” or “LDTs”, are subject to FDA jurisdiction as medical devices. Notwithstanding its assertion of jurisdiction, FDA has also historically maintained that LDTs, with limited exceptions, are subject to “enforcement discretion” meaning that FDA generally would not subject LDTs to its regulatory requirements for medical devices. More recently, in July 2010, FDA held a public meeting in which FDA officials including those from the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Products (OIVD), within the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) announced their intention to develop a regulatory framework for LDTs that would be based on the risks posed by such tests. In particular, FDA officials stated that laboratory developed tests offered directly to consumers would no longer be subject to enforcement discretion. Concomitant with that meeting, FDA sent letters to more than a dozen companies offering direct-to-consumer genetic tests, including us, stating that their tests appeared to be subject to regulation as medical devices and requesting information on how the companies planned to come into compliance with FDA requirements. In March 2011, the FDA convened an expert advisory panel to review and make recommendations to the FDA regarding the regulation of direct-to-consumer medical genetic tests. We testified before the panel and also submitted written comments. The FDA letter inquired about our Inherent Health brand of genetic tests and stating that these tests appeared to meet the definition of a “device” under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic (FD&C) Act. The letter requested that the Company provide FDA with the clearance or approval number for the tests or with the basis for determination that the tests do not require FDA clearance or approval. In the letter, FDA offered to meet with us, “to discuss whether there are tests you are promoting that do not require review by FDA and what information you would need to submit in order for your products to be legally marketed.” On November 1, 2010, we met with the director and staff members of the OIVD to present information on our tests. At FDA’s request, we submitted a plan in December 2010 and requested a follow-up meeting to obtain feedback on the plan from OIVD personnel. We have had no further communications with the FDA. In March 2011, FDA convened an expert advisory panel to discuss and make recommendations on scientific issues concerning direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetic tests that make medical claims. The panel expressed a variety of concerns regarding DTC genetic testing and recommended that certain tests not be permitted DTC. We submitted a position paper to the FDA in advance of the meeting and presented testimony to the panel at a public meeting on March 8, 2011. After the March meeting, the OIVD director publically stated that FDA will likely take a case-by-case approach with respect to which types of genetic tests may be offered DTC. He also stated that OIVD plans to issue three guidance documents addressing oversight of laboratory developed tests. He did not provide a timeframe for OIVD’s release of these documents, but they are listed on CDRH’s 2012 regulatory agenda. In March 2012, an FDA spokesperson stated that FDA’s plan to adjust its enforcement discretion policy for LDT’s is currently under “administrative review.” HIPAA and Other Privacy Laws The Administrative Simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) established for the first time comprehensive federal protection for the privacy and security of health information. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, significantly expanded the scope of HIPAA and increased penalties for violating HIPAA. The HIPAA standards apply to three types of organizations (“Covered Entities”): health plans, health care clearing houses, and health care providers who conduct certain health care transactions electronically. They also apply to vendors of Covered Entities called “Business Associates” that access protected health information to provide services to or perform functions on behalf of Covered Entities. Covered Entities and Business Associates must have in place administrative, physical and technical standards to guard against the misuse of individually identifiable health information. We are not currently a Covered Entity subject to the HIPAA privacy and security standard. It is possible that in the future we will become a Covered Entity (for example if any of the tests that we perform become reimbursable by insurers). Regardless of our own Covered Entity status, HIPAA may apply to our customers, which include health care providers. Even though we are not directly subject to HIPAA, we could be subject to penalties, lawsuits and experience other adverse consequences if we aid and abet a HIPAA violation by a customer or, under a broad reading of the HIPAA criminal provisions, we obtain or disclose protected health information maintained by a Covered Entity without authorization in violation of HIPAA. In addition, some lawsuits have been pursued at the state level against entities that are not directly subject to HIPAA for breach of confidentiality under the theory that HIPAA establishes a standard of care relative to health information, the breach of which constitutes negligence. 13 Our activities must also comply with other applicable privacy laws. There are international privacy laws, such as the European Data Directive, that impose restrictions on the access, use, and disclosure of health information. Additionally, some state laws that protect the confidentially of medical information impose privacy protections more stringent than those of HIPAA and are not preempted by HIPAA. There are genetic information privacy laws at the state level. Our failure to comply with these privacy laws could significant impact our business and our future business plans. In addition, legislation is being considered at the federal and state level that could impose stricter requirements regarding the confidentiality of medical information, including genetic information and could impact our operations. GINA Legislation In 2008, the Congress passed and the President signed into law, the Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act or GINA. GINA prohibits certain entities from discriminating using genetic information, which includes information from genetic tests, genetic tests of family members and family medical history. It also includes information about an individual’s or family member’s request for or receipt of genetic services. This law generally prohibits health insurers or health benefit plans from: ·increasing the group premium or contribution amounts (such as co-payments) based on genetic information; ·requesting or requiring an individual or family member to undergo a genetic test; or ·requesting, requiring or purchasing genetic information prior to or in connection with enrollment, or at any time for underwriting purposes. The law also prohibits employers and certain other entities, including employment agencies, from using genetic information in employment decision-making and from requesting, requiring, or purchasing genetic information. It also strictly limits such entities from disclosing genetic information. In October 2009, the Department of Health and Human Services issued a proposed rule to modify the HIPAA Privacy Rule to implement Title I of GINA. Among other things, this rule would revise the definition of health information under HIPAA to include genetic information. GINA applies to some of our customers and to us as an employer. We could be subject to penalties, lawsuits or experience other adverse consequences if our operations violate GINA or cause another entity to violate GINA. Federal Trade Commission The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has jurisdiction to prohibit unfair or deceptive trade practices, including false or misleading advertising. Advertising for our tests, including statements made on our website, is subject to FTC requirements. In recent years, the FTC instituted enforcement actions against several dietary supplement companies for false and misleading marketing practices and advertising of certain products, including those intended for weight loss. These enforcement actions have resulted in consent decrees and monetary payments by the companies involved. Although the FTC has never threatened an enforcement action against us for the advertising of our products, there can be no assurance that the FTC will not question the advertising for our products in the future. Other Information Our executive offices are located at 135 Beaver Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02452, and our telephone number is (781) 398-0700. We were incorporated in Texas in 1986 and we re-incorporated in Delaware in March 2000. We maintain websites at www.ilgenetics.com and www.inherenthealth.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports are available to you free of charge through the Investor Relations Section of our website as soon as practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We have included our website addresses only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend them to be active links to our websites. 14 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business, Our Financial Results and Need for Financing If we fail to obtain additional capital, or obtain it on unfavorable terms, then we may have to end our research and development programs and other operations. We expect that our current and anticipated financial resources, including the amount available under our credit facility with Pyxis Innovations, Inc., an affiliate of our majority stockholder, Alticor, Inc., will be adequate to maintain our current and planned operations through June 2012. We expect that we will need significant additional capital in the future to fund our research and product development programs and operations. Our future capital needs depend on many factors. We may need capital for the commercial launch of additional genetic tests, continued research and development efforts, obtaining and protecting patents and administrative expenses. Based on current economic conditions additional financing may not be available when needed, or, if available, it may not be available on favorable terms. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our existing shareholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing shareholders may result. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, tests or products in development. If we cannot obtain additional funding on acceptable terms when needed, we may have to discontinue operations, or, at a minimum, curtail one or more of our research and development programs. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We expect to incur further losses in the development of our business and have been dependent on funding operations through the issuance of convertible debt and the sale of equity securities. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans include continuing to finance operations through the private or public placement of debt and/or equity securities, increasing revenue through new arrangements with commercial distribution partners and the reduction of expenditures. However, no assurance can be given at this time as to whether we will be able to achieve these objectives. The financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and expect these losses to continue for some time. We incurred losses from continuing operations of $6.5 million in 2010 and $5.2 million in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $102.6 million. Our losses result primarily from research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets. Although we generate revenues from sales of our genetic risk assessment tests, this may not be sufficient to result in net income in the foreseeable future. We will need to generate significant revenue to continue our research and development programs and achieve profitability. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will achieve profitability. Our operating history may make it difficult to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. Our operations to date have been largely limited to research and development of our technologies and products related to the field of personalized health. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully generate substantial revenue from the commercializion of our genetic tests. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. 15 Current economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic conditions and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption including, among other things, extreme volatility in prices of publicly traded securities, severely diminished liquidity, severely restricted credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. We believe the current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our operations. Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions may cause consumers to reign in their spending generally, the impact of which may be that they stop or delay their purchases of our genetic tests and consumer products. If these circumstances persist or continue to worsen, our future operating results could be adversely affected, particularly relative to our current expectations. We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business. The field of personalized health is highly competitive. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, consumer products companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Furthermore, many of these competitors are more experienced than we are in discovering, commercializing and marketing products. These greater resources may allow our competitors to discover important genes or genetic markers before we do. If we do not discover genes that are linked to a health risk, characterize their functions, develop genetic tests and related information services based on such discoveries, obtain regulatory and other approvals and launch these services, or products before our competitors, then our ability to generate sales and revenue will be reduced or eliminated, and could make our products obsolete. We expect competition to intensify in our industry as technical advances are made and become more widely known. The market for personalized health generally and genetic risk assessment tests in particular is unproven. The markets and customer base in the field of personalized health are not well established. Adoption of technologies in this emerging field requires substantial market development and there can be no assurance that channels for marketing our products can or will be successfully developed by us or others. As a result, there can be no assurance that our products will be successfully commercialized or that they can be sold at sufficient volumes to make them profitable. If our potential customers do not accept our products, or take a longer time to accept them than we anticipate, it will reduce our anticipated sales, resulting in additional losses. The market for genetic risk assessment tests, as part of the field of personalized health, is at an early stage of development and may not continue to grow. The scientific community, including us, has only a limited understanding of the role of genes in predicting disease. The success of our genetic risk assessment tests will depend upon their acceptance as being useful and cost-effective to the individuals who purchase these products, the physicians and other members of the medical community who recommend or prescribe them, as well as third-party payers, such as insurance companies and the government. We can only achieve broad market acceptance with substantial education about the benefits and limitations of genetic risk assessment tests while providing the tests at a fair cost. Furthermore, while positive media attention resulting from new scientific studies or announcements can spur rapid growth in individual segments of the market, and also impact individual brands, news that challenges individual segments or products can have a negative impact on the industry overall as well as on sales of the challenged segments or products. The marketplace may never accept our products, and we may never be able to sell our products at a profit. Ethical, legal and social issues related to genetic testing may reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised concerns regarding the appropriate utilization and the confidentiality of information provided by genetic testing. Genetic tests for assessing a person’s likelihood of developing a chronic disease have focused public attention on the need to protect the privacy of genetic information. For example, concerns have been expressed that insurance carriers and employers may use these tests to discriminate on the basis of genetic information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities prohibiting genetic testing or calling for limits on or regulating the use of genetic testing, particularly for diseases for which there is no known cure. Any of these scenarios could decrease demand for our products. Technological changes may cause our tests to become obsolete. We have to date focused our efforts on genetic tests based on a small number of candidate genes. It is now possible to use array technology to conduct whole genome association studies for risk assessment, which may make our technologies obsolete. In order to develop customers and markets for our genetic risk assessment tests, we will be required to invest substantial additional capital and other resources. 16 We have limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic tests on our own. We have very limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic risk assessment tests on our own. In June 2009, we announced the launch of our new Inherent Health® brand of genetic tests. On October 26, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Amway Global, an affiliate of Alticor, pursuant to which it sells our Inherent Health® brand of genetics tests through its e-commerce Web site via a hyperlink to our e-commerce site. In 2011 and 2010, revenues from this agreement accounted for 66% and 31% of our revenues, respectively. In addition, we have started to market and sell our genetic tests through other health care and professional channels, and we may attempt to negotiate marketing and distribution agreements with third parties, although there can be no assurances we will be able to do so. We have, to date, had very limited success in marketing and selling our genetic tests, and we can provide no assurance that our current or planned commercialization efforts will be successful. If we are unsuccessful in establishing additional strategic alliances, our ability to develop and market products and services may be damaged. Entering into additional strategic alliances for the development and commercialization of products and services based on our discoveries is an important element of our business strategy. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. If we fail to maintain our existing alliances or to establish additional strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements, then our ability to develop and market products and services will be damaged. In addition, the terms of any future strategic alliances may be unfavorable to us or these strategic alliances may be unsuccessful. Because our products are based on emerging science, if we make changes to our tests based on new scientific findings, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our product liability insurance coverage. Our genetic test products are based on emerging science, and we continue to conduct studies to further enhance the usefulness and scientific credibility of our products. If we make changes to our tests based on new data, it could harm our credibility, decrease market acceptance of our products or expose us to liability claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but it is often difficult to obtain, is expensive and may not be available in the future on economically acceptable terms. In addition, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. We may become subject to product liability claims that, even if they are without merit, could result in significant legal defense costs to us. If we are held liable for claims for which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, those claims could materially damage our business and our financial condition. Any product liability claim against us or resulting recall of our products could create significant negative publicity. Our dependence on key executives and scientists could adversely impact the development and management of our business. Our success depends on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key employees, it could damage our development programs and our business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled managerial and scientific personnel. The pool of personnel with the skill that we require is limited. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense. We compete with numerous pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, as well as universities and non-profit research organizations in the highly competitive Boston, Massachusetts business area. Our current senior management team is employed by us under agreements that may be terminated by them for any reason upon adequate notice. There can be no assurances, therefore, that we will be able to retain our senior executives or replace them, if necessary. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. If Alticor enters a business in competition with ours, certain of our directors might have a conflict of interest. In conjunction with our strategic alliance with Alticor, we have agreed to certain terms for allocating opportunities as permitted under Section 122(17) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This agreement, regulates and defines the conduct of certain of our affairs as they may involve Alticor as our majority stockholder and its affiliates, and our powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of our officers and directors in connection with corporate opportunities. Except under certain circumstances, Alticor and its affiliates have the right to engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business or have an interest in the same classes or categories of corporate opportunities as we do. If Alticor or one of our directors appointed by Alticor and its affiliates acquire knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Alticor, its affiliates and us, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Alticor and its affiliates will not have a duty to inform us about the corporate opportunity. In addition, Alticor will not be liable to us or to you for breach of any fiduciary duty as a stockholder of ours for not informing us of the corporate opportunity, keeping it for its own account, or referring it to another person. 17 Additionally, except under limited circumstances, if an officer or employee of Alticor who is also one of our directors is offered a corporate opportunity, such opportunity shall not belong to us. In addition, we agreed that such director will have satisfied his duties to us and not be liable to us or to you in connection with such opportunity. The terms of this agreement will terminate on the date that no person who is a director, officer or employee of ours is also a director, officer, or employee of Alticor or its affiliates. We may be prohibited from fully using our net operating loss carryforwards, which could affect our financial performance. As a result of the losses incurred since inception, we have not recorded a federal income tax provision and have recorded a valuation allowance against all future tax benefits. As of December 31, 2011, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $84.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively, for federal income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2031. As of December 31, 2011, we had a research tax credit carryforward of approximately $0.9 million for state income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2026. Our ability to use these net operating loss and credit carryforwards is subject to restrictions contained in the Internal Revenue Code which provide for limitations on our utilization of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards following a greater than 50% ownership change during the prescribed testing period. We have experienced two such ownership changes. One change arose in March 2003 and the other was in June 1999. As a result, our net operating loss carryforwards that relate to periods prior to March 2003 and June 1999 are limited in utilization. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of the carryforwards prior to utilization. In addition, in order to realize the future tax benefits of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, we must generate taxable income, of which there is no assurance. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to obtain patent protection for our products and preserve our trade secrets, then competitors may develop competing products and services, which will likely decrease our sales and market share. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain patent protection in the United States and in other countries for our products and services. In addition, our success will also depend upon our ability to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We own rights to 11 issued U.S. patents and have a number of additional U.S. patent applications pending. We have also been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S. patents and patent applications pending. Our patent positions, and those of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize products and services depends on our ability to: ·obtain patents; ·obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others; ·prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and ·protect trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may never afford meaningful protection for our technology or products or provide us with a competitive advantage. Further, others may develop competing products, which avoid legally infringing upon, or conflicting with, our patents. There is no assurance that another company will not replicate one or more of our products, and this may harm our ability to do business. In addition, competitors may challenge any patents issued to us, and these patents may subsequently be narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, with confidentiality agreements. The third parties we contract with may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. If they do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Our competitors may discover or independently develop our trade secrets. 18 Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our costs or prevent us from developing or marketing our products or services. We may not have rights under patents or patent applications that are related to our current or proposed products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, to develop or sell any proposed products or services with patent rights controlled by third parties, our collaborators or ourselves may seek, or may be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents and patent applications. If this occurs, we may have to pay license fees, royalties or both, to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, our collaborators or we may be prohibited from developing or selling our products or services. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Tests Any tests that may be developed by us may be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. Our currently marketed tests were launched as laboratory developed tests, or LDTs, performed in our CLIA-certified clinical laboratory operating in Waltham, Massachusetts. We expect that our future LDTs will be launched as well at our CLIA-certified laboratory. Although FDA has historically exercised enforcement discretion with respect to LDTs, meaning that such tests generally have not been subject to FDA regulatory requirements for in vitro diagnostic devices, the Agency’s regulatory approach to LDTs is in a period of transition. FDA officials have stated that DTC genetic tests that make medical claims will no longer be subject to enforcement discretion. FDA’s letter to the Company in July 2010 is consistent with this change in Agency position. However, FDA has not stated what specific requirements will apply to LDTs sold DTC and we have not received any feedback from FDA regarding the plan we submitted in January 2011. FDA convened an advisory panel in March 2011 to make recommendations regarding oversight of DTC genetic tests. Following the meeting, the director of OIVD stated that FDA would likely need to take a case-by-case approach with respect to which types of genetic tests could be offered by DTC. We are uncertain as to what, if any, regulatory requirements may apply to our tests in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including pre-market review or approval, will not be required in the future, or that our tests will be permitted to be offered DTC. If FDA requires us to make a marketing submission (a 510(k) premarket notification or a premarket approval application) either as a condition of continuing to market our tests or bringing future tests to market, our business could be negatively impacted. Requiring prior FDA clearance or approval could be lengthy, costly and burdensome. In addition, depending upon FDA’s response to a submission we may be required to stop selling our tests, revise our tests significantly, or delay introduction of new tests. Additionally, if our tests become subject to regulation as medical devices by FDA, we would be required to comply with other regulatory provisions, including facility registration, device listing, adverse event reporting, and good manufacturing practices. We would also be subject to penalties, including seizure and injunction, for noncompliance with FDA requirements. Complying with FDA requirements could add additional costs and burdens to our operations. We are subject to government regulation which may significantly increase our costs and delay introduction of our products. We are subject to a variety of federal and state legal requirements including CLIA, the FD&C Act, state clinical laboratory licensure laws and implementing regulations. The growth of our business may increase the potential of being found in violation of these laws. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is further increased by the fact that the technologies at issue are new and the applicability of statutory and regulatory provisions to these technologies has not been fully developed, implemented, or subjected to judicial review, and the statutory and regulatory provisions themselves are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us, or any business partners, for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we or they successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If their or our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, they or we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines, and they or we could be required to curtail or cease operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business and our financial results. 19 If we do not comply with governmental regulations applicable to our CLIA-certified laboratory, we may not be able to continue our operations. The establishment and operation of our laboratory is subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States. The laboratory holds a CLIA certificate of compliance and is licensed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and other states as required, which enables us to provide testing services to residents of most other states. Failure to comply with state regulations or changes in state regulatory schemes, could result in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of the operations of our laboratory and could have a material adverse affect on our business. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. To renew CLIA certification, laboratories are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make unannounced inspections of these laboratories. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or our state licenses, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, we would no longer be able to continue our testing operations which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Tests based on our technology may require clinical trial testing, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. If the FDA decides to require pre-market clearance or approval of LDT’s, we may be required to perform clinical trials prior to submitting a marketing application. If we are required to conduct pre-market clinical trials, whether using prospectively acquired tissue samples or archival samples, delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly increase development costs and delay commercialization. The commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population and the nature of the disease or condition being studied. Our collaborators may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of any therapeutic product that they may develop. Any therapeutic product that our collaborators may develop will be subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new therapeutic product can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals for therapeutic products is unpredictable but typically exceeds several years. It is possible that none of the therapeutic products our collaborators may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a therapeutic product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the therapeutic product. Any therapeutic product that our collaborators may develop will also be subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, approval by the FDA of a therapeutic product does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States or vice versa. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our tests and may harm our reputation. If we in the future fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the ability to successfully develop, market and sell our tests and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of such tests or products by the market. These enforcement actions could include: ·warning letters; ·recalls, public notification or medical device safety alerts; 20 ·restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing such tests or products; ·restrictions on importation of such tests or products; ·suspension of review or refusal to approve new or pending applications; ·withdrawal of product approvals; ·product seizures; ·injunctions; ·civil penalties, including monetary fines; and ·criminal penalties. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous and chemicals materials, and we maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities. We believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our facilities comply with the relevant local and Federal guidelines. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have been delisted from the NYSE Amex resulting in a more limited market for our common stock. On December 23, 2008, we were notified of our failure to comply with the NYSE Amex, hereinafter referred to as the Exchange, continued listing standards under section 1003 of the Exchange’s Company Guide. Specifically, the Exchange noted our failure to comply with section 1003(a) (iii) of the Company Guide because our stockholders’ equity was less than $6,000,000 and we had losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. On June 24, 2010, we received notification from the Corporate Compliance Staff of the NYSE Amex, hereafter referred to as the Exchange, that the Exchange intended to initiate proceedings to delist our common stock because we did not regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Exchange’s Company Guide. We requested a hearing before a Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) to appeal the Exchange Staffs delisting determination. Despite our continued attempts to regain compliance and after exhausting the grace period allowances extended by the Exchange, we did not regain compliance and withdrew our appeal. As a result, our common stock was suspended from the Exchange effective with the open of business on August 16, 2010 and began trading on the OTCQB™ under the symbol ILIU. The delisting by the Exchange could hurt our investors by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Additionally, the delisting could negatively affect us by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to raise capital. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. In the two years ended December 31, 2011, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $0.19 to a high of $1.50. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant volatility. The volatility of stocks for companies in our industry often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: ·demand for and acceptance of our products; 21 ·our ability to develop new relationships and maintain and enhance existing relationships with strategic partners; ·regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; ·developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; ·introduction of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; ·failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations, or the issuance of equity securities at prices below fair market price; ·changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; ·litigation; ·future sales of our common stock; ·general market conditions; ·economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; ·period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and ·overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Our Series A Preferred Stock has certain rights that are senior to common stockholder rights and this may reduce the value of our common stock. Our Series A Preferred Stock, which was issued to Pyxis, an affiliate of Alticor, in March 2003, accrues dividends at the rate of 8% of the original purchase price per year, payable only when and if declared by the Board of Directors and are non-cumulative. If we declare a distribution, with certain exceptions, payable in securities of other persons, evidences of indebtedness issued by us or other persons, assets (excluding cash dividends) or options or rights to purchase any such securities or evidences of indebtedness, then, in each such case the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a proportionate share of any such distribution as though the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock were the holders of the number of shares of our common stock into which their respective shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible as of the record date fixed for the determination of the holders of our common stock entitled to receive such distribution. As of December 31, 2011, our Series A Preferred Stock was convertible into 28,160,200 shares of our common stock, which is subject to standard antidilution protections as well as adjustments in the event we issue any shares of capital stock for a price lower than the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution of any of our assets or surplus funds to the holders of our common stock by reason of their ownership thereof, the amount of two times the then-effective purchase price per share, as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations or splits with respect to such shares, plus all declared but unpaid dividends on such share for each share of Series A Preferred Stock then held by them. After receiving this amount, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall participate on an as-converted basis with the holders of common stock in any of our remaining assets. 22 Because a single stockholder has a controlling percentage of our voting power, other stockholders’ voting power is limited. As of December 31, 2011, Pyxis, was our largest stockholder, holding approximately 56% of the voting power of our capital stock. Accordingly, this stockholder will be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws and the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. This stockholder may make decisions that are adverse to other stockholders’ interests. This ownership concentration may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Four of our seven directors are individuals chosen by this single stockholder and this stockholder has the right to choose an additional director. These directors might pursue policies in the interest of this single stockholder to the detriment of our other stockholders. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares of common stock, which you may only be able to do at a loss. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. Furthermore, our credit facility with Pyxis prohibits us from paying cash dividends without Pyxis’s consent. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares, which you may only be able to do at a loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 