Risk Factors” below and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise requires, “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company,” or “ORBIT/FR” refers to ORBIT/FR, Inc. and its subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General ORBIT/FR, Inc. develops, markets and supports sophisticated automated microwave test and measurement systems for the aerospace/defense, wireless communications, satellite and automotive industries and manufactures anechoic foam, a microwave absorbing material that is an external component of microwave test and measurement systems. Military antennas, cellular phones, satellites, radars, radio transmitters, and global positioning system receivers all depend upon the reliable and efficient transmission and reception of microwave signals in order to communicate. By utilizing the Company’s systems to test and measure the critical performance characteristics of antennas, microwave signals, wireless manufacturers and service providers within these industries can improve quality and time-to-market, lower the risk of failure and underperformance and reduce costs. Since its founding, the Company has expanded from distributing individual microwave test and measurement components to providing a wide range of fully integrated microwave test and measurement solutions. Components of an ORBIT/FR automated microwave test and measurement system include proprietary software and hardware products, which can be combined into standard or customized configurations to meet a customer’s specific needs. The Company markets and sells its systems to customers in the United States and throughout the world. Within its targeted industries, the Company’s customers include aerospace/defense systems integrators and product manufacturers that incorporate microwave technology, such as Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, Northrop Grumman, BAE, L3 Communications, Alenia, Astrium, Lufthansa and Boeing; manufacturers of wireless systems and products, such as Motorola, Nokia, Ericsson, Samsung, Sony and Qualcomm; telecommunications service providers that rely on microwave technology, such as AT&T, NTT and British Telecom; and automobile and automotive subassembly manufacturers such as Daimler, Ford, BMW and Hyundai. The Company’s customers also include the United States government and several foreign governments. The Company’s primary objective is to strengthen its position in automated microwave test and measurement systems while developing products and systems for a broader range of microwave applications. The principal elements of the Company’s strategy to reach its objectives are: (i) offering comprehensive high quality solutions to customers; (ii) maintaining its technological leadership; (iii) focusing on standard systems and proprietary off-the-shelf products: (iv) pursuing growth in international markets; and (v) leveraging its technological expertise to expand into complementary markets. The Company’s principal offices are located at 506 Prudential Road, Horsham, Pennsylvania 19044. Its telephone number is (215) 674-5100, its e-mail address is mail@orbitfr.com and its World Wide Web home page is located at www.orbitfr.com. 3 Table of Contents History The Company was incorporated in Delaware in December 1996. The Company is the holding company for Orbit Advanced Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Technologies”), and its wholly owned subsidiary, Flam & Russell, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Flam & Russell”), Orbit FR Engineering, Ltd., an Israeli corporation (“Engineering”), Orbit FR Europe, GmbH, a German corporation (“GmbH”), and Advanced ElectroMagnetics, Inc. (“AEMI”), a California corporation. The Company’s former majority shareholder was Orbit-Alchut Technologies, Ltd., a publicly traded company in Israel which was founded in 1950 (“Alchut”). On May 13, 2008, Alchut sold all of its 3.7 million shares of common stock of the Company to Satimo, SA (“Satimo”) a publicly traded company on the ALTERNEXT stock exchange. On June 30, 2009, Microwave Vision Group, SA, (“Microwave Vision”), acquired the 3.7 million common shares of the Company through a reorganization involving its wholly owned subsidiary, Satimo. Technologies was incorporated in 1985 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alchut to provide sales and customer support for Alchut’s products in the United States, including positioning subsystems. In 1991, Technologies began to focus on the development and design of its own proprietary microwave test and measurement products and systems. In 1994, Technologies recognized the potential for providing customers with fully integrated microwave test and measurement solutions and began incorporating its software technology with hardware from third-party manufacturers. Engineering was incorporated in Israel in December 1996 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alchut at which time Alchut transferred all of the assets relating to its microwave test and measurement business to Engineering. Engineering is principally responsible for overseeing the development, design and production of ORBIT/FR’s electro-mechanical products. Along with providing electro-mechanical products internally, Engineering is responsible for sales, marketing and customer support to the Asian market. In October 1997, Orbit FR Europe, GmbH was incorporated in Germany. GmbH develops compact range measurement systems and components, and is responsible for sales, marketing and customer support to the European market. On June 28, 1996, Technologies purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of Flam & Russell for approximately $1,043,000. The acquisition of Flam & Russell augmented the Company’s product mix, staff of microwave and software engineers and customer base. Flam & Russell has been active in the microwave test and measurement field since 1981. On June 17, 1997, contemporaneously with the completion of its initial public offering, the Company purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of AEMI for approximately $1.2 million. One-half of the purchase price was payable in cash and the other half was payable by issuance of shares of the Company’s Common Stock at the initial offering price of $8.25 per share. AEMI manufactures anechoic foam, a microwave absorbing material that is an integral component of microwave test and measurement systems. On September 6, 2005, the Company announced that it had reached a final settlement with the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, Directorate of Defense Trade Control (DDTC) of the United States Department of State, terminating as of August 29, 2005 the statutory debarment that prohibited the Company’s direct or indirect participation in exports subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) since November 2, 1999. Accordingly, under the terms of the agreement DDTC has resumed the normal processing of license applications involving the Company. 4 Table of Contents Industry Overview The need for microwave and antenna test and measurement systems and products expanded rapidly during the 1960’s and 1970’s in conjunction with the growth and increased sophistication of the aerospace/defense industry in the United States and Western Europe. In the last 30 years, this need for test and measurement products and systems has expanded beyond aerospace/defense applications to all aspects of modern telecommunications, including personal wireless communications devices, satellite-based communications systems and “smart” automobiles. This expansion has occurred in conjunction with a growing desire among companies to focus on their core competencies and outsource many non-core functions such as the development and manufacture of microwave test and measurement systems. Within the wireless communications, satellite, automotive and aerospace/defense industries, test and measurement products and systems are used during all stages of a product’s life cycle, including product development, pre-production qualification, production testing and product maintenance. Given the broad scope of testing procedures, it is not uncommon for a manufacturer or service provider to own and operate more than one microwave test and measurement system. Aerospace/Defense . The need within the aerospace/defense community for accurate and secure communications and tracking systems led to the emergence of microwave test and measurement companies in the 1960’s. Recent growth in Department of Homeland Security and Department of Defense budgets have provided additional opportunities for the Company. The industry’s tracking requirements, such as air traffic control, precision guided weapons, and data links and stealth aircraft, led to the development of Radar Cross Section (“RCS”) and the test and measurement of radomes. RCS involves the transmission of microwave signals towards a passive target, such as an aircraft or missile, and then the creation of an “image” of the target by measuring the energy reflected back towards the transmit source. Radome testing evaluates the impact of a radome (the dome-shaped casing that is placed on the leading edge of an aircraft or missile to protect the radar and direction-finding equipment) on the microwave signals that pass through it. Wireless Communications . The wireless communications industry has grown in recent years as a result of the development of cost-effective digital technologies and the gradual global deregulation of the telecommunications industry. Wireless communications products include cellular/PCS handsets and base stations, pagers, wireless PDAs, and Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and Wi-Max products, and RFIDs (RF tags). The Company expects continued growth within the wireless communications industry in the future due to an increase in available spectrum, new generations of cellular systems, the adoption of efficient new digital technologies and the development of “smart” antennas. Growing worldwide demand for wireless communications products and services has generated a need among wireless manufacturers and service providers for systems and products that address their specific microwave test and measurement needs. These companies operate in highly-competitive, rapidly changing markets in which the performance and reliability of their systems and products are essential to achieve and maintain competitive advantage. The accurate transmission and reception of microwave signals are fundamental to the performance of wireless systems and products. To ensure the successful transfer of voice or data from one point to another and to minimize poor reception, cross talk and dropped calls, manufacturers and service providers conduct extensive testing of both cellular handsets and wireless base stations for signal quality, direction, strength and interference. Satellite . Satellite-related markets have grown over the past several years, driven by the emergence of advanced communication technologies offering cost-effective global voice, video and data transmission, GPS, internet access and tracking capabilities. Satellites provide several advantages over 5 Table of Contents terrestrial communications networks, including rapid installation and deployment, no incremental cost as distances increase and higher rates of data transmission. To ensure that satellite-based communications systems are effective and reliable, it is essential that both satellites and “earth stations” transmit and receive microwave signals accurately. The accuracy requirements for these satellite systems are critical, and failure to detect a design error could result in a satellite’s “footprint” not covering its intended geographic area. Satellite manufacturers cannot afford to make this kind of error since the cost to manufacture, launch and insure a satellite can exceed approximately $200 million. Accordingly, sophisticated microwave test and measurement systems are critical to satellite and earth station manufacturers, as well as their subcontractors and sub-assembly manufacturers, to ensure that their products work properly. Automotive . The world’s major manufacturers of automobiles and automotive sub-assemblies, driven by competitive pressures, are designing new generations of “smart” cars and trucks. These vehicles incorporate the latest communications and safety devices including cellular, GPS-based, navigation and anti-theft systems, satellite radios (e.g. XM, Sirius), data transfer, digital TV and collision-avoidance systems. Each of these features requires a specialized, highly-accurate microwave transmission and reception system. To ensure the performance of these various systems and to assess how they are impacted by the electromagnetic properties of the car itself, automotive manufacturers must test the car and these devices as a unit using a microwave test and measurement system designed for automotive applications. The ORBIT/FR Solution ORBIT/FR provides its customers with flexible and reliable solutions for their complex microwave test and measurement needs. The Company focuses its efforts and resources on developing state-of-the-art microwave test and measurement systems and products that incorporate specialized technologies and expertise. The Company’s customers have a need for microwave test and measurement systems and products but often do not have the in-house capabilities to develop, or the desire to develop, such systems and products themselves. ORBIT/FR’s systems and products provide customers with cost- effective and user-friendly solutions to their microwave test and measurement needs, thus allowing them to remain focused on their core competencies. The Company’s systems and products incorporate technological expertise developed and acquired by the Company over many years. The Company offers a wide range of standard and custom microwave test and measurement solutions for specialized aerospace/defense-related testing, cellular/PCS handset testing, cellular base station testing, satellite testing and automotive testing. The Company’s products include test and measurement software, microwave receivers, positioner subsystems and controllers, as well as other microwave products, and a full line of RF absorbing materials, all of which are typically incorporated into the Company’s systems. The Company’s proprietary software supports the Company’s own test and measurement products as well as those manufactured by third parties. The Company’s engineers and other technical staff use their broad expertise to assess and understand their customers’ specific microwave test and measurement needs, process orders quickly, keep delivery time to a minimum, provide comprehensive customer support and release new software on a regular basis. The ORBIT/FR Strategy The Company’s objective is to strengthen its leadership position in automated microwave test and measurement systems while developing products and systems for a broader range of microwave applications. The principal elements of the Company’s strategy to reach its objective are: Offering Comprehensive Turnkey Solutions to Customers . Within the microwave test and measurement market, new and existing customers increasingly desire to purchase comprehensive, turnkey test and measurement systems from a single provider. The Company addresses this desire by providing engineering and project management services, by offering an increasingly broad product line and by maintaining close relationships with outside component suppliers. Additionally, the Company 6 Table of Contents may periodically acquire companies with complementary products and services that can be integrated with the Company’s existing or proposed products and systems, as it did with its acquisitions of Flam & Russell and AEMI. By acquiring suppliers of key components of microwave test and measurement systems that the Company does not already provide, the Company believes, but cannot assure, that it will be able to increase gross margins. Maintaining Technological Leadership . The Company believes that it has sophisticated and diversified technological capabilities and intends to strengthen its technologies by continuously designing and developing new software releases and hardware upgrades which offer greater performance and higher precision. Focusing on Standard Products and Proprietary Off-the Shelf Products . Given the diversified needs of the Company’s customers, no two microwave test and measurement systems are identical. However, the Company seeks to keep the costs of customization to a minimum by designing and delivering specific types of systems that maximize the use of the Company’s proprietary off-the-shelf products. This approach enables the Company to optimize its margins while offering its customers tailor-made solutions built around proven high-quality and reliable products. Continued focus on Expanding U.S. Aerospace/Defense Market. As a result of its reputation and diverse product line, the Company maintains relationships with the U.S. government and several of the leading defense contractors. With expected increases in Department of Homeland Security and Department of Defense budgets, the Company expects to expand this relationship. Pursuing Growth in International Markets. Approximately 48% and 47% of the Company’s revenues during 2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from international customers (i.e. customers outside of North America). The Company believes that in addition to domestic growth as a result of increases in Department of Defense and Homeland Security budgets, the international microwave test and measurement marketplace will also grow over the next several years, due in large part to worldwide economic development, governmental policies aimed at improving the communications infrastructure in developing countries and the increasing globalization of commerce. The Company has devoted and intends to continue to devote significant efforts to increasing its share of the international market for microwave test and measurement systems by strengthening and expanding its sales network through the establishment of foreign sales and customer service centers and the appointment of additional international sales representatives. In addition, the Company believes it has a competitive advantage due to the duty-free status of its products manufactured in Israel and sold into the European Union. Leveraging Technological Expertise to Expand into Complimentary Markets . The Company intends to leverage its technological expertise in microwave test and measurement systems to expand into complementary markets that the Company believes offer high growth potential and where the Company’s technology provides competitive advantages. Microwave Products . The Company believes that opportunities exist to apply the Company’s core technologies to the design, manufacture and marketing of products that incorporate microwave technology. The Company intends to continue marketing its radial power combiners, amplifiers, antennas and mixers, and plans to develop and sell additional microwave-based products in the future. The Company believes its large customer base will give it a competitive advantage in marketing these products. Systems and Products Since its founding, the Company has expanded from distributing individual microwave test and measurement components to providing turnkey solutions, which can include chamber design, RF absorbing materials, antenna measurement and/or RCS subsystems, RF test equipment and software suites, and a wide range of microwave test and measurement solutions. Components of an ORBIT/FR automated microwave test and measurement system include proprietary software and hardware products which can be combined into standard or customized configurations to meet customers’ specific needs. 7 Table of Contents The Company believes that one of its principal strengths is its experienced design team that solves complex technical and practical problems. Microwave Test and Measurement Systems . The Company designs, manufactures and markets automated microwave test and measurement systems. In addition to providing most of these systems’ component parts, the Company also integrates the systems and trains its customers in use of the systems. Although most customers purchase fully integrated turnkey microwave test and measurement systems, the Company also sells its hardware and software products individually as replacement parts or components of custom-designed systems. The Company offers seven types of microwave test and measurement systems. The first, antenna measurement systems, are generic systems that can be adapted for many uses, and the other types are designed and sold in response to well-defined microwave test and measurement needs within specific industries. Prices for a typical ORBIT/FR system ranges from $50,000 to $1,000,000, but large systems have been sold for over $3 million. Antenna Measurement Systems . All products and systems that receive or transmit microwave signals rely on antennas. Accordingly, items such as microwave radios, GPS receivers, cellular handsets and base-stations, field service/delivery equipment, satellite earth stations and radios, precision guided missiles, radar and commercial and military aircraft need to have their antennas tested to ensure satisfactory performance characteristics. The Company’s antenna measurement systems offer both manufacturers and service providers user-friendly and cost-effective solutions for their antenna measurement needs. The systems test for signal quality, direction, strength and interference and can be adapted to perform testing in each of the stages of a product’s life: development; qualification; production; and maintenance. Although antenna measurement systems differ significantly from one application to another, all of the Company’s systems incorporate a personal computer running specialized proprietary software, a microwave receiver, a positioning subsystem and at least one additional antenna or probe. The systems can be designed for use in a wide variety of different test environments, ranging from a small anechoic chamber to an outdoor range covering several acres. The Company offers three types of antenna measurement methods: Far-field : Traditional method generally used outdoors Near-field: Cost-effective indoor method using mathematical conversion tools Compact Range : High-end indoor method using a microwave reflector The Company also has developed advanced systems that combine these measurement methods, such as far-field and near-field, in a single chamber. Cellular/PCS Base Station Systems . The Company develops and sells test and measurement systems used to assess the microwave performance characteristics of cellular/PCS base stations and “smart” antennas. These systems enable cellular/PCS base station antenna manufacturers to design and build efficient and reliable products, and allow wireless communications service providers to monitor more efficiently the performance of their base stations. The existing system design is based on the Company’s cylindrical near-field technology and is designed for indoor use. Satellite Systems . The Company develops and sells microwave test and measurement systems for satellite communication and broadcast systems which test the satellite performance of the satellite’s antennas. These systems also test the transmit and receive characteristics of the active array antennas used on most modern satellites and can have the ability to identify and diagnose malfunctions within 8 Table of Contents these complex antennas. The Company’s satellite test systems utilize either near-field or compact range technology. Both technologies are equally effective from a test and measurement viewpoint, but each offers certain benefits. A near-field system offers diagnostic capabilities and is generally less expensive than a comparably equipped compact range system, but a compact range system is faster and easier to use. Automotive Systems . ORBIT/FR believes it is a leader in the design and delivery of high-performance test and measurement systems for automobile manufacturers and manufacturers of automotive sub-assemblies. The Company’s systems incorporate both near-field and far-field technologies and are thus capable of microwave sampling over a wide range of frequencies. A typical system includes a large mechanical arm that sweeps over a large turntable. The car being tested rests on the turntable, and both the turntable and the mechanical arm are set in motion based upon instructions received from the Company’s measurement software. The systems’ broad capabilities are essential given a growing trend by automobile manufacturers to integrate advanced microwave technologies such as cellular/PCS, GPS-based navigation system, satellite radios, digital TV and collision-avoidance systems into their advanced next generation cars. RCS Systems . The Company’s Radar Cross Section measurement systems transmit microwave signals towards a passive target and then measure the energy reflected back towards the transmit source. In an RCS system, the passive target is typically a model or full scale aircraft or missile that is mounted on a special “low-RCS” testing pylon capable of rotating the target. Data collected at various rotation angles and frequencies can be processed to form an electromagnetic “image” of the target. This type of information enables the design engineer to assess more accurately the detailed radar signature of the target. The Company believes that it is a market leader in this field. Radome Systems . A radome is a dome-shaped casing that is placed on the leading edge of a commercial aircraft, military aircraft or missile to protect the radar and direction-finding equipment. A radome is typically manufactured using fiberglass or other materials that are designed to be “transparent” to microwave signals. Testing is performed periodically to ensure that microwave signals are not degraded or deflected as they pass through the radome. The Company’s systems are designed to measure radome performance by analyzing the path of microwave signals as they pass through the radome and then comparing it to the propagation path when the radome is not present. Radome systems use far-field measurement methods but rely on high positioning accuracy normally required by near-field systems. Custom Systems . From time to time, the Company designs and manufactures custom microwave test and measurement systems for a wide variety of uses and applications worldwide. The Company’s broad microwave and antenna expertise has enabled it to obtain these contracts, and the Company intends to bid for similar jobs in the future if the expertise gained in designing such systems is deemed to be of strategic value to the Company. Multi-probe Measurement Systems. Through Microwave Vision, the Company has access to a new multi-probe measurement technology. This technology allows for a substantial increase in measurement speed. We believe that the combination of this technology with the Company’s systems, provides the Company with a competitive advantage. Microwave Test and Measurement Software Products . Through its 959Spectrum and MiDAS software packages, ORBIT/FR offers automatic measurement software for microwave test and measurement systems. The Company’s software products are Windows-based programs that provide the customer with a consistent user-friendly interface with the test and measurement system. The software products have a robust and modular structure that enables the Company to easily add features for current and future customers. The software uses far-field and/or near-field algorithms to generate accurate results, and the computational methodologies used have gained acceptance throughout the microwave test and measurement community. The software supports the Company’s own measurement equipment as well as equipment manufactured by third parties. The Company’s software products are designed to be “off-the-shelf,” but are versatile and can be customized by the Company’s or the customer’s technical personnel to suit specific needs. Although software can vary between systems, it always consists of three primary modules: data acquisition, data analysis and report writing. The software’s data acquisition module records actual measurements as it controls the microwave measurement equipment, the positioning subsystem, and 9 Table of Contents often the source antenna and/or the antenna being measured. Variables such as frequency, power level, amplitude, phase, rotary and/or linear motion, polarization, transmit/receive switching, electrical beam pointing and polarization switching are all controlled by the Company’s measurement software. The multidimensional results obtained are stored in a computer file for subsequent analysis. The software’s data analysis module processes the acquired data using sophisticated microwave and signal processing algorithms developed by the Company and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The data analysis module transforms the acquired data into easily-understood numerical information and graphic representations, thus providing the customer with the data required to satisfy its internal requirements and those of its own customers. The software’s report writing module can be customized to meet each customer’s needs. Positioner Subsystems . The positioner subsystem is the collection of equipment that holds the device under test and causes it to be moved according to the needs of the test. A typical positioner subsystem may include the following components: Positioners . A positioner is the item upon which the device under test is placed while it is being tested. The Company’s positioners are rugged, yet highly precise, devices that adjust themselves in accordance with the positioning instructions received from the measurement software. Special circuitry and mechanical design features built into the positioner enable the data acquired from the antenna under test to travel efficiently through the positioner to the computer to be analyzed. The Company’s simple positioners rotate around a single axis, while the Company’s more elaborate positioners incorporate up to three axes. An automated microwave test and measurement system requires one or more positioners. The Company offers over 200 different positioner models and believes that its positioners are among the most accurate. Positioner Controllers and Power Control Units . The Company manufactures positioner controllers and power control units (PCUs) as well as models that combine these two products into one component. Working together, the positioner controller and the PCU act as the “translators” between the measurement software and the positioner. The positioner controller receives digital instructions from the microwave software and translates them into analog signals understood by the PCU. These analog signals are then amplified by the PCU to provide precisely calibrated DC power to the positioner’s electric motors, which then operate at a user-defined speed to move the antenna or device under test through the desired positions. The Company offers four positioner controller models, two PCU models and four models that combine both positioner controller and PCU. Planar Scanners . A planar scanner is a rectangular device that enables a probe antenna to be moved along an x- and y-axis so that its position at any time is known and can be exactly replicated. Planar scanners are mounted to enable the probe to be moved throughout the height and width dimensions of the scanner. Scanners enable test engineers to accurately and reliably analyze many aspects of the microwave signals radiating from the antenna or device under test. The Company offers 24 standard scanners ranging in size from 3 feet by 3 feet to over 100 feet by 100 feet. Pylons and Model Towers . Pylons and model towers are used in many microwave test and measurement applications and range in size from very large to very small. Large pylons can carry substantial loads in indoor or outdoor environments, and certain models can even support a full-sized aircraft. Pylons designed to minimize measurement interference are almost always used in RCS systems. Other Microwave Products . The Company has developed several microwave products used in the larger microwave industry. Radial Power Combiners . The Company’s radial power combiners offer a highly efficient electromagnetic mechanism to combine several identical low-energy signals together to make a single high-energy signal. Radial power combiners have many uses, but their most common application is in high-power microwave transmitters. 10 Table of Contents Antennas, Probes and Other Microwave Accessories . The Company designs and manufactures antennas, probes and other microwave accessories. These products are used in the Company’s microwave test and measurement systems, and they are also sold to customers as stand-alone items. Sales and Marketing The Company markets and sells its products in the United States through direct regional sales managers including Microwave Vision’s world-wide direct sales force and through independent sales representatives that target specific geographic and strategic markets. Internationally, the Company has established sales and customer service centers in Israel and Germany and has a network of distributors, agents and representatives for sales, marketing and customer support throughout Europe and Asia. The Company’s engineers and other technical staff support the efforts of the sales force. Since a customer’s engineers typically play an important role in the procurement decision, the Company’s engineers work closely with them to help them understand the advantages of the Company’s products and systems. Additional business from existing customers is pursued through the joint efforts of both the sales force and the engineers and other technical staff who has worked closely with the customer’s engineers and who understand the customer’s needs. If a customer has already purchased a microwave test and measurement system from ORBIT/FR, the Company believes it has an advantage over competitors in obtaining orders for system upgrades as well as any additional systems that the customer may wish to purchase at a later date. Typically, a substantial portion of the Company’s revenues in a given year is generated by customers for whom the Company has previously provided products or systems. The Company generates sales leads for new customers through referrals from existing customers and other industry suppliers, its reputation in the industry, its on-line catalog (found at www.orbitfr.com ), in coordination with Microwave Vision advertising in trade publications, in conferences and trade shows, and on the World Wide Web. Customer Support The Company is committed to providing customer satisfaction through the service and support of its products. Through its Customer Service Response Center, the Company handles warranty support, field service, technical support, training, service contracts, spare parts and user documentation issues. Through a trained customer service representative and direct phone support, the Company believes it is positioned to provide rapid solutions upon request. ORBIT/FR’s customer service capabilities are achieved by providing comprehensive training through offices located in the U.S., Europe and Israel. Customers The Company has performed several hundred world-wide installations for customers in the aerospace/defense, wireless communications, satellite and automotive industries. Representative customers that have purchased systems from the Company include: Aerospace/Defense Aerospatiale, Alenia Aeronautica, Allgon, Ball Aerospace, Boeing, Chelton, BAE Systems, Dassault, Elta, Ericsson Microwave, General Electric, Israel Aircraft Industry, ITT Avionics, JPL, L3 Communications, Lockheed Martin/Loral, Lufthansa, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, NASA, Northrop-Grumman, Nurad, Pratt & Whitney, Racal Avionics, Raphael, Raytheon, Rockwell International, SAAB Missiles, SPAR Aerospace, Texas Instruments, and the United States Air Force, Army and Navy. Wireless Communications Alcatel, Andrew, AT&T, Bell Atlantic, BAE, Bosch, Celwave, Chelton, Daewoo, Ericsson, GTE, IBM, Intel, ITT, Korea Mobile Telecom, Lucent Technologies, Motorola, NEC, Nokia, Northern Telecom, NTT, Probrand, Qualcomm, RCA, Samsung, SiemensPlessey, Thales Antennas, Telebras and Tenovis. 11 Table of Contents Satellite Astrium, DASA, EADS, Elenia Spazio, Harris, Lockheed Martin, Space Systems/Loral, Raytheon and TRW. Automotive Blaupunkt, BMW, Daimler-Chrysler, Ford, Fuba, Hyundai, Mitsubishi, SAAB and Toyota. University Georgia Tech, University of Hawaii, University of Hong Kong, University of Utah, UCLA, University of Illinois, Texas A&M University and Villanova University. The Company’s customers are located in the Americas (the United States, Canada, Brazil and Argentina), Europe (the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Holland, Spain, Austria, Denmark, Belgium, Poland, Russia, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Portugal) and throughout the rest of the world (Japan, Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, Singapore, Indonesia, Australia, China, and South Africa). See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the geographic concentration of the Company’s revenues. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated revenues. Production and Suppliers The Company’s engineers, based in the United States, Germany and Israel, are responsible for product design and development and for overseeing the production of the Company’s products. Although the Company maintains a production facility in Horsham, PA, most of the production of the Company’s products is performed by subcontractors. Through its wholly owned subsidiary, Advanced ElectroMagnetics, Inc., the Company manufactures anechoic foam absorbing material, an integral component of the microwave test and measurement system environment. Although the Company produces many of the component parts for its microwave test and measurement systems, it purchases certain components from outside vendors for turnkey microwave test and measurement systems, including personal computers, shielded enclosures and microwave absorbers. Backlog At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s backlog was approximately $25.2 million and $18.4 million, respectively. The Company includes in backlog only those orders for which it has received and accepted a completed purchase order. Such orders are generally subject to cancellation by the customer with payment of a specified charge. The delivery lead time on the Company’s products and systems is generally three to six months, but can be as short as a few days and as long as 18 months or more. Because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules, cancellation of orders and potential shipment delays, the Company’s backlog as of any particular date may not be representative of actual sales for any succeeding period. 12 Table of Contents Research and Development The Company believes that its future success depends on its ability to adapt to rapidly changing technological circumstances within the industries it serves and to continue to meet the needs of its customers. Accordingly, the timely development and introduction of new products is essential to maintain the Company’s competitive position. Using its internal research and development staff, augmented by external consultants, the Company develops most of its products in-house. On occasion, the Company’s research and development efforts have been conducted in direct response to the specific requirements of customers’ orders, and, accordingly, such amounts are included in cost of revenues when incurred and the related funding is included in net revenues at such time. Included in cost of revenues are customer-funded research and development costs of approximately $147,000 and $33,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Other research and development expenses of the Company for fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $1,308,000 and $2,080,000, respectively. Competition The Company believes that its current systems and products compete effectively with the systems and products offered by its competitors on the basis of product functionality, speed and accuracy, reliability, price, ease of use and technical support. The market for automated microwave test and measurement products, systems and services, however, is highly competitive and is characterized by continuing advances in products and technologies. Some of the Company’s competitors have established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company also competes, on a limited basis, with the internal development groups of its existing and potential customers, many of whom design and develop parts of their own microwave test and measurement systems. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by such competition. The Company’s primary competitors in the microwave test and measurement market are MI Technology, Nearfield Systems, Inc., EMC Test Systems, March Microwave. Proprietary Rights The Company is heavily dependent on its proprietary technology. The Company relies on a combination of confidentiality agreements with its employees, license agreements, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and protect rights to its proprietary technology. The Company does not hold any material patents. All of the Company’s software is shipped with a security lock which limits software access to authorized users. Generally, the Company does not license or release its source code. Effective copyright and trade secret protection of the Company’s proprietary technology may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Employees As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a total of 127 employees. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Rapid Technological Change . The microwave test and measurement industry is characterized by rapid technological change. The Company’s future success will depend upon its ability to continually enhance its current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with the increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers and the technological advancements of its competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace. 13 Table of Contents Dependence on Proprietary Technology. The Company’s success is heavily dependent upon its proprietary technology. The Company does not currently have any material patents and relies principally on trade secret and copyright laws to protect its technology. However, there can be no assurance that these steps will prevent misappropriation of its technology. Moreover, third parties could independently develop technologies that compete with the Company’s technologies. Although the Company believes that its products and proprietary rights do not infringe patents and proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement claims, regardless of merit, will not be asserted against the Company. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection of the Company’s proprietary technology may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Dependence on Alchut; Operations in Israel. The Company previously maintained a number of relationships with Alchut, the former majority stockholder of the Company. On May 13, 2008, Orbit-Alchut Technologies, Ltd., (“Alchut”) sold all of its 3.7 million shares of common stock of the Company to Satimo, SA. As part of that transaction, Alchut had agreed to continue to provide the services for a period of one year after the closing of the transaction. The Company’s subsidiary in Israel has moved its operations to a new location and all the general and administrative services previously provided by Alchut were in place at the expiry of the one year service agreement on May 13, 2009. The Company maintains part of its engineering operations, in Israel. As a result, the Company may be directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. As a result of the change in ownership of the Company, utilization of the Company’s domestic net operating loss carryforwards is limited pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such limitation may have an effect on future results of operations. Risks of Fixed-Price Contracts. Virtually all of the Company’s contracts for its systems and products are on a fixed-price basis. The profitability of such contracts is subject to inherent uncertainties as to the cost of completion. In addition to possible errors or omissions in making initial estimates, cost overruns may be incurred as a result of unforeseen obstacles, including both physical conditions and unexpected problems in engineering, design or testing. Since the Company’s business may at certain times be concentrated in a limited number of large contracts, a significant cost overrun on any one contract could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Associated with Entering New Markets . The Company has identified and is evaluating whether to enter into certain complementary markets. The Company’s success in these markets will depend on, among other factors, the Company’s ability to identify markets and develop technologies for such markets on a timely basis, hire and retain skilled management, financial, marketing and engineering personnel, successfully manage growth and obtain capital sufficient to finance such expansion. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully enter these markets. Management of Growth . The Company believes that growth will be required to maintain the Company’s competitive position. Future growth, coupled with the rapid evolution of the Company’s markets, has placed, and is likely to continue to place, significant strains on its management, administrative, operating and financial resources, as well as increased demands on its internal systems, procedures and controls. The Company’s ability to manage future growth will require the Company to continue to improve its financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures on a timely basis, to implement new systems as necessary and to expand, train, motivate and manage its sales and technical personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage its growth 14 Table of Contents successfully. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Associated with International Sales . In 2009 and 2008, international sales (sales to customers outside of North America) comprised approximately 48% and 47%, respectively, of the Company’s total sales, and the Company expects its international business to continue to account for a material part of its revenues. International sales are subject to numerous risks, including political and economic instability in foreign markets, restrictive trade and export policies of foreign governments, inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments, imposition of product tariffs and burdens and costs of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements. Approximately 86% of the Company’s sales in 2009 were denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, the Company believes that it does not have significant exposure to fluctuations in currency. However, fluctuations in currency could adversely affect the Company’s foreign customers. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results . The Company’s operating results have varied from quarter to quarter in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as the size and timing of significant contracts, the mix of third party products and the Company’s proprietary products included in a particular contract, customers’ budgetary constraints, increased competition, the timing of new product announcements and changes in pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of the Company’s products, changes in operating expenses and changes in general economic factors and export license delays and denials. The Company’s expense levels are based, in part, on its expectations as to future revenue levels. If the Company’s revenue levels were to be below expectations, the Company’s operating results would likely be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Qualified Technical Personnel . The Company’s operating results depend in large part upon the efforts of its microwave, software and systems engineers. The success of the Company’s business therefore depends on its ability to attract and retain engineers and other technical personnel. There are a limited number of microwave engineers, and such individuals are sought both by microwave test and measurement companies such as the Company and by manufacturers of wireless products and telecommunications service providers. Competition for such personnel is intense. The Company has at times experienced difficulty in recruiting and retaining technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience difficulties in the future in attracting and in retaining technical personnel. Dependence on Key Personnel . The success of the Company depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of its executive officers and other key personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its managerial and other key personnel or to attract additional managerial and other key personnel if required. Product Liability; Risk of Product Defects . The sale of products and systems by the Company may entail the risk of product liability and related claims. A product liability claim brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Complex software and system products, such as those offered by the Company, may contain defects or failures when introduced or when new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by the Company, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. The Company maintains product liability insurance in the amount of $2.0 million and errors and omissions insurance in the amount of $7.0 million, although there can be no assurance that such coverage will be applicable to a particular claim or that the amounts of such insurance will be adequate if the Company experiences a significant claim. Although the Company has not experienced any significant claims to date related to its systems or products, the occurrence of such a claim could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Competition . The market for automated microwave test and measurement products, systems and services is highly competitive and is characterized by continuing advances in products and technologies. 15 Table of Contents In general, competition in this market comes from major microwave test and measurement vendors, some of which have a longer operating history, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and a larger installed customer base than the Company. These companies also have established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company also competes, on a limited basis, with the internal development groups of its existing and potential customers, who may design and develop parts of their own microwave test and measurement systems. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by such competition. Fluctuations in Capital Spending. The Company is dependent upon the wireless communications, satellite, automotive and aerospace/defense industries. Because these industries are characterized by technological change, pricing and gross margin pressure and, particularly in the aerospace/defense industry, government budget constraints, they have from time to time experienced sudden economic downturns. During these periods, capital spending is frequently curtailed and the number of design projects often decreases. Since the Company’s revenues are dependent upon capital spending trends and new design projects, negative factors affecting these industries could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. No Dividends . The Company has never paid cash dividends on its Common Stock and does not anticipate that any cash dividends will be declared or paid in the foreseeable future. Issuance of Preferred Stock and Common Stock; Anti-Takeover Provisions. Pursuant to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company has an authorized class of 2,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock which may be issued by the Board of Directors with such terms and such rights, preferences and designations as the Board may determine and without any vote of the stockholders, unless otherwise required by law. Issuance of such Preferred Stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations thereof, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Issuance of additional shares of Common Stock could result in dilution of the voting power of the Common Stock. In addition, certain “anti-takeover” provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law among other things, may restrict the ability of the stockholders to approve a merger or business combination or obtain control of the Company. Market for Common Stock. The Company’s Common Stock is traded on the OTCBB, which limits exposure to market analysts and, in turn, may limit volume of trading. Investors may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, the Company’s common stock than would otherwise be the case were the Company’s Common Stock listed on a more recognized stock exchange or quotation service. In addition, trading in the Company’s Common Stock is currently subject to certain rules under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock.” Penny stocks are generally non-Nasdaq equity securities with a market price less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock rules require broker-dealers selling penny stocks to make certain disclosures about such stocks to purchasers thereof, and impose sales practice restrictions on broker-dealers in certain penny stock transactions. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these rules may discourage them from effecting transactions in the Company’s Common Stock, which could limit the liquidity of the common stock and the ability of the Company’s stockholders to sell their stock in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 