Item 1A. Risk Factors One of the challenges of a global business such as ours is to be able to determine in a sophisticated manner the enterprise risks that in fact exist and then to determine how best to employ available resources to prevent, mitigate and/or minimize those risks that have the greatest potential (1) to occur and (2) to cause significant damage from an operational, financial or reputational standpoint. An important dynamic that we must also consider and appropriately manage is how much and what types of commercial insurance to obtain and how much potential liability may remain uninsured consistent with the infrastructure that is in place within the organization to identify and properly manage it. While we attempt to approach these issues in an increasingly sophisticated and coordinated manner across the globe, our failure to identify or effectively manage the enterprise risks inherent within our business could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. 8 Table of Contents General economic conditions and real estate market conditions can have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced in past years, and expect in the future to be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdown or recession, and corresponding declines in the demand for real estate and related services, within one or more of the markets in which we operate. Each real estate market tends to be cyclical and related to the condition of its corresponding economy as a whole or, at least, to the perceptions of investors and users as to the relevant economic outlook. For example, corporations may be hesitant to expand space or enter into long-term commitments if they are concerned with the economic environment. Corporations that are under financial pressure for any reason, or are attempting to more aggressively manage their expenses, may reduce the size of their workforces and/or seek corresponding reductions in office space and related management services. Negative economic conditions and declines in the demand for real estate and related services in several markets or in significant markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including as a result of the following factors: • Decline in Leasing Activity A general decline in leasing activity can lead to a reduction in fees and commissions for arranging leases, both on behalf of owners and tenants. Additionally, a decline in leasing activity can lead to a reduction in the demand for, and fees earned from, other real estate services, such as Project and Development Services (managing the build-out of space) and Corporate Property Services (managing space occupied by clients). • Decline in Acquisition and Disposition Activity A general decline in acquisition and disposition activity can lead to a reduction in fees and commissions for arranging such transactions, as well as in fees and commissions for arranging financing for acquirers. • Decline in Real Estate Investment Activity A general decline in real estate investment activity can lead to a reduction in investment management fees on the acquisition of property for clients, as well as in fees and commissions for arranging acquisitions, dispositions and financings. • Decline in the Value and Performance of Real Estate and Rental Rates A general decline in the value and performance of real estate and in rental rates can lead to a reduction in investment management fees (the most significant portion of which are generally based upon the performance of investments) and the value of the co-investments we make with our investment management clients or “merchant banking” investments we have made for our own account. Additionally, such declines can lead to a reduction in fees and commissions that are based upon the value of, or revenues produced by, the properties with respect to which services are provided, including fees and commissions for property management and valuations, and for arranging acquisitions, dispositions, leasing and financings. Concentrations of business with corporate clients increase credit risk and the impact from the loss of certain clients. While our client base remains diversified across industries and geographies, we do value the expansion of business relationships with individual corporate clients and the increased efficiency and economics (both to our clients and our firm) that can result from developing repeat business from the same client and from performing an increasingly broad range of services for the same client. At the same time, having increasingly large and concentrated clients can also lead to greater or more concentrated risks of loss if, among other possibilities, such a client (1) experiences its own financial problems, which can lead to larger individual credit risks, (2) decides to reduce its operations or its real estate facilities, (3) makes a change in its real estate strategy, such as no longer outsourcing its real estate operations, (4) decides to change its providers of real estate services or (5) merges with another corporation or otherwise undergoes a change of control, which may result in new management taking over with a different real estate philosophy or in different relationships with other real estate providers. Additionally, increasingly large clients may, and sometimes do, attempt to leverage the extent of their relationships with us during the course of contract negotiations or in connection with disputes or potential litigation. The international scope of our operations, and our operations in particular regions and countries, involve a number of risks for our business. The fact that we operate in 50 countries presents risks for our business in a number of ways. If those risks, including the following, associated with the international scope of our operations and our operations in particular regions and countries cannot be or are not successfully managed, our business, operating results and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. • Difficulties and Costs of Staffing and Managing International Operations; Noncompliance with Policies; Communications and Enforcement of Our Policies and Our Code of Business Ethics; Conflicts of Interest The coordination and management of international operations poses additional costs and difficulties. We must manage operations in many time zones and that involve people with language and cultural differences. Our success depends on finding and retaining people capable of dealing with these challenges effectively and who will represent the Company with the highest levels of integrity. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or successfully plan for succession of employees holding key management positions, our growth may be limited, and our business and operating results could suffer. Among the challenges we face in retaining our people is maintaining a compensation system that rewards them consistent with local markets and with our profitability, which can be especially difficult where competitors may be attempting to gain market share by hiring our best people at rates of compensation that are well above the market. We have committed resources to effectively coordinate our business activities around the world to meet our clients’ needs, whether they be local, regional or global. We also consistently attempt to enhance the establishment, organization and communication of corporate policies, particularly where we determine that the nature of our business poses the greatest risk of noncompliance. The failure of our people to carry out their responsibilities in accordance with our client contracts, our corporate and operating policies, or our standard operating procedures, or their negligence in doing so, could result in liability to clients or other third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. When addressing staffing in connection with a restructuring of our organization or a downturn in economic conditions or activity, we must take into account the employment laws of the countries in which actions are contemplated, which in some cases can result in significant costs and/or time delays in implementing headcount reductions. Our ability to manage such operational fluctuations and maintain adequate long-term strategies in the face of such developments will be critical to our continued growth and profitability. 9 Table of Contents The geographic and cultural diversity in our organization makes it more challenging to communicate the importance of adherence to our Code of Business Ethics, to monitor and enforce compliance with its provisions on a worldwide basis, and to ensure local compliance with U.S. laws that apply globally, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Patriot Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have introduced an Ethics Everywhere program to address these challenges and to attempt to maintain a high level of awareness about, and compliance with, our Code of Business Ethics. Breaches of our Code of Business Ethics, particularly by our executive management, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. All providers of professional services to clients, including our firm, must manage potential conflicts of interest that may arise, principally where the primary duty of loyalty owed to one client is somehow potentially weakened or compromised by a relationship also maintained with a third party. While the Company has policies in place to identify, disclose and resolve potential conflicts of interest, the failure or inability to do so in a significant situation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. • Client Due Diligence There are circumstances where the conduct or identity of our clients could cause us reputational damage or financial harm or could lead to our non-compliance with certain laws, as the result of which there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. An example would be the attempt by a client to “launder” funds through its relationship with us, namely to disguise the illegal source of funds that are put into otherwise legitimate real estate investments. While we continue to attempt to enhance the procedures we use to evaluate our clients before doing business with them and to avoid attempts to launder money or otherwise to exploit their relationship with us, our efforts may not be successful in all situations. • Currency Restrictions and Exchange Rate Fluctuations We produce positive flows of cash in various countries and currencies that can be most effectively used to fund operations in other countries or to repay our indebtedness, which is currently primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We face restrictions in certain countries that limit or prevent the transfer of funds to other countries or the exchange of the local currency to other currencies. We also face risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may lead to a decline in the value of the funds produced in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, although we operate globally, we report our results in U.S. dollars and thus our reported results may be positively or negatively impacted by the strengthening or weakening of currencies against the U.S. dollar. As an example, the euro and the pound sterling, each a currency used in a significant portion of our operations, weakened against the U.S. dollar over the course of 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 28% of our operating income was attributable to operations with U.S. dollars as their functional currency, and 72% was attributable to operations having other functional currencies. In addition to the potential negative impact on reported earnings, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of the reported results of operations. We are authorized to use currency-hedging instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts, purchased currency options and borrowings in foreign currency. There can be no assurance that such hedging will be economically effective. We do not use hedging instruments for speculative purposes. The following table sets forth the revenues derived from our most significant currencies (based upon 2005 revenues, $ in millions). The euro revenues include our businesses in France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg. Most Significant Currencies on a Revenue Basis 2005 2004 United States Dollar $ 539.9 421.5 United Kingdom Pound 281.7 259.6 Euro 220.8 191.4 Australian Dollar 108.5 94.9 Other currencies 239.7 199.6 Total Revenues $ 1,390.6 1,167.0 • Potentially Adverse Tax Consequences; Changes in Tax Legislation and Tax Rates Moving funds between countries can produce adverse tax consequences in the countries from which and to which funds are transferred, as well as in other countries, such as the United States, in which we have operations. Additionally, as our operations are global, we face challenges in effectively gaining a tax benefit for costs incurred in one country that benefit our operations in other countries. Changes in tax legislation or tax rates may occur in one or more jurisdictions in which we operate that may materially increase the cost of operating our business. • Burden of Complying with Multiple and Potentially Conflicting Laws and Regulations and Dealing with Changes in Legal and Regulatory Requirements; Licensing; Regulatory and Contractual Liabilities We face a broad range of legal and regulatory environments in the countries in which we do business. Coordinating our activities to deal with these requirements presents challenges. As an example, in the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) regulates the conduct of investment businesses and the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) regulates the profession of Chartered Surveyors, which is the professional qualification required for certain of the services we provide in the United Kingdom, through upholding standards of competence and conduct. As another example, in the United States, various activities of LaSalle Investment Management are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commisssion (SEC), and as a publicly traded company, we are subject to various corporate governance and other requirements established by statute, pursuant to SEC regulations and under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Additionally, changes in legal and regulatory requirements can impact our ability to engage in business in certain jurisdictions or increase the cost of doing so. 10 Table of Contents The brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions requires us to maintain licenses in various jurisdictions in which we operate. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct brokerage activities without a license, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions received or have licenses suspended. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from noncompliance have increased. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to our business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, also may change in ways that materially increase the costs of compliance. As a licensed real estate service provider in various jurisdictions, we and our licensed employees may be subject to various due diligence, disclosure, standard-of-care, anti-money laundering and other obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties we brokered or managed. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales or other services claiming that we did not fulfill our obligations as a service provider or broker (including, for example, with respect to conflicts of interests where we are acting, or are perceived to be acting, for two or more clients with potentially contrary interests). In addition, we may, on behalf of our clients, hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction, engineering and various other services for our managed properties. Depending upon the terms of our contracts with clients (which, for example, may place us in the position of a principal rather than an agent), we may be subjected to, or become liable for, claims for construction defects, negligent performance of work or other similar actions by third parties whom we do not control. Adverse outcomes of property management disputes or litigation could negatively impact our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, particularly if we have not limited in our contracts the extent of damages to which we may be liable for the consequences of our actions or if our liabilities exceed the amounts of the commercial third-party insurance that we carry. Moreover, our clients may seek to hold us accountable for the actions of contractors because of our role as property manager even if we have technically disclaimed liability as a legal matter, in which case we may be pressured to participate in a financial settlement for purposes of preserving the client relationship. • Greater Difficulty in Collecting Accounts Receivable in Certain Countries and Regions We face challenges to our ability to efficiently and/or effectively collect accounts receivable in certain countries and regions. For example, in Asia, many countries have underdeveloped insolvency laws and clients often are slow to pay. In Europe, clients in some countries, particularly Spain, Italy and France, also tend to delay payments, reflecting a different business culture. • Political and Economic Instability; Terrorist Activities; Health Epidemics We operate in 50 countries with varying degrees of political and economic stability. For example, certain Asian, Eastern European and South American countries have experienced serious political and economic instability within the past few years, and such instability will likely continue to arise from time to time in countries in which we have operations. As a result, our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course may be disrupted in one way or another, with corresponding reductions in revenues, increases in expenses or other material adverse effects. In addition, terrorist activities have escalated in recent years and at times have affected cities in which we operate. To the extent that similar terrorist activities continue to occur, they may adversely affect our business because they tend to target the same type of high-profile urban areas in which we do business. Health epidemics that affect the general conduct of business in one or more urban areas, such as occurred from SARS or may occur from an avian flu outbreak, can also adversely affect the volume of business transactions, real estate markets and the cost of operating real estate, and may therefore adversely affect our results. Real estate services markets are highly competitive. We provide a broad range of commercial real estate services, and there is significant competition on an international, regional and local level with respect to many of these services and in commercial real estate services generally. Depending on the service, we face competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers, accounting firms, technology firms, firms providing outsourcing services and companies bringing their real estate services in-house (any of which may be a global, regional or local firm). Many of our competitors are local or regional firms, which, although substantially smaller in overall size, may be larger in a specific local or regional market. Some of our competitors are expanding the services they offer in an attempt to gain additional business. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we have. Larger or more well-capitalized competitors may be able to respond faster to the need for technological changes, price their services more aggressively, compete more effectively for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions more easily and generally compete more aggressively for market share. New competitors or alliances among competitors that increase their ability to service clients could emerge and gain market share, develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services we offer. In order to respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may have to lower our prices, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins. We are substantially dependent on long-term client relationships and on revenue received for services under various service agreements. Many of these agreements are cancelable by the client for any reason with as little as 30 to 60 days’ notice, as is typical in the industry. In this competitive market, if we are unable to maintain these relationships or are otherwise unable to retain existing clients and develop new clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We must also continue to successfully differentiate the scope and quality of our service and product offerings from those of our competitors in order to maintain the value and premium status of our brand, which is one of our most important assets. 11 Table of Contents The seasonality of our business exposes us to risks and to volatility in our stock price. Our revenues and profits tend to be significantly higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year than the first two quarters. This is a result of a general focus in the real estate industry on completing or documenting transactions by calendar-year-end and the fact that certain expenses are constant through the year. Historically, we have reported a small loss in the first quarter, a small profit or loss in the second quarter and increasingly larger profit during the third and fourth quarters, excluding the recognition of investment-generated performance fees and co-investment equity gains (both of which can be particularly unpredictable). The seasonality of our business makes it difficult to determine during the course of the year whether plan results will be achieved, and thus to adjust to changes in expectations. Additionally, negative economic or other conditions that arise at a time when they impact performance in the fourth quarter, such as the particular timing of when larger transactions close, may have a more significant impact than if they occurred earlier in the year. To the extent we are not able to identify and adjust for changes in expectations or we are confronted with negative conditions that impact inordinately on the fourth quarter of a year, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. This may in turn lead to volatility in our stock price. Volatility in LaSalle Investment Management incentive fee revenues. With the growth in assets under management at LaSalle Investment Management, our portfolio is of sufficient size to periodically generate large incentive fees, and in some cases equity gains, that significantly contribute to our earnings and to the changes in earnings from one year to the next. However, volatility in this component of our earnings is inevitable due to the nature of this aspect of our business. In the case of our commingled funds, underlying market conditions, particular decisions regarding the acquisition and disposition of fund assets, and the specifics of the client mandate will determine the timing and size of incentive fees from one fund to another. For separate accounts, where asset management is ongoing, we may also earn incentive fees at periodic agreed-upon measurement dates, and that may be related to performance relative to specified real-estate indices (such as that published by the National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries (NCREIF)). While LaSalle Investment Management has focused over the past several years on developing more predictable annuity-type revenues, incentive fees have been, and will continue to be, an important part of our revenues and earnings. As a result, the volatility described above should be expected to continue. For example, in 2005 we recognized, and in 2006 we expect to also recognize, significant incentive fees from a mix of both fund liquidations and separate account performance. We are currently anticipating incentive fees in 2006 to be primarily concentrated in a significant incentive fee from a separate account where we have ongoing portfolio management. This incentive fee is payable only once every four years and will be calculated based on the account’s performance above a real rate of return so long as the account's performance has exceeded a NCREIF - based index. We may face liability with respect to environmental issues occurring at properties that we manage or in which we invest. Various laws and regulations impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. We may face liability under these laws as a result of our role as an on-site property manager. In addition, we may face liability if such laws are applied to expand our limited liability with respect to our co-investments in real estate as discussed below. Co-investment and merchant banking activities subject us to real estate investment risks and potential liabilities. An important part of our investment strategy includes investing in real estate along with our money management clients. In order to remain competitive with well-capitalized financial services firms, we also make “merchant banking” investments, as the result of which we may use Firm capital to acquire properties before the related investment management funds have been established or investment commitments received from third-party clients. Investing in this manner exposes us to a number of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including as a result of the following risks: • We may lose some or all of the capital that we invest if the investments perform poorly. • We will have fluctuations in earnings and cash flow as we recognize gains or losses, and receive cash, upon the disposition of investments, the timing of which is geared toward the benefit of our clients. • We generally hold our investments in real estate through subsidiaries with limited liability; however, in certain circumstances, it is possible that this limited exposure may be expanded in the future based upon, among other things, changes in applicable laws or the application of existing or new laws. To the extent this occurs, our liability could exceed the amount we have invested. • We make co-investments in real estate in many countries, and this presents risks as described above in "The International Scope of Our Operations, and Our Operations in Particular Regions and Countries, Involve a Number of Risks for Our Business." We may have indebtedness with fixed or variable interest rates and certain covenants with which we must comply. At December 31, 2005, we had $44.7 million of indebtedness on a consolidated basis, principally under a revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders. We subsequently incurred an additional $150 million of indebtedness as the result of our acquisition of Spaulding & Slye in January 2006. Our average outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility were $109 million during 2005, and the effective interest rate on that facility was 3.9%. Our outstanding borrowings fluctuate during the year primarily due to varying working capital requirements. For example, payment of annual incentive compensation represents a significant working capital requirement commanding increased borrowings in the first half of the year, while the Firm’s seasonal earnings pattern provides more for working capital requirements in the second half of the year. The terms of our debt contain a number of covenants that could restrict our flexibility to finance future operations or capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. The debt covenants limit us in, among other things: • Encumbering or disposing of assets; • Incurring indebtedness; and • Engaging in acquisitions. In addition, with respect to the revolving credit facility, we must maintain a consolidated net worth of at least $450 million and a leverage ratio not exceeding 3.25 to 1. We must also maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.5 to 1. If we are unable to make required payments under the revolving credit facility or if we breach any of the debt covenants, we will be in default under the terms of the revolving credit facility. A default under the facility could cause acceleration of repayment of those amounts as well as defaults under other existing and future debt obligations. 12 Table of Contents The charter and the amended bylaws of Jones Lang LaSalle and the Maryland general corporate law could delay, defer or prevent a change of control. The charter and bylaws of Jones Lang LaSalle include provisions that may discourage, delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that may be in the best interest of Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The charter and bylaws provide for: • The ability of the board of directors to establish one or more classes and series of capital stock including the ability to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of such capital stock without any further shareholder approval; • A requirement that any shareholder action taken without a meeting be pursuant to unanimous written consent; and • Certain advance notice procedures for Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders nominating candidates for election to the Jones Lang LaSalle board of directors. Under the Maryland General Corporate Law (the “MGCL”), certain “Business Combinations” (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares or an affiliate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the corporation (an “Interested Shareholder”) or an affiliate of the Interested Shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder. Thereafter, any such Business Combination must be recommended by the board of directors of such corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation and (2) 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation other than shares held by the Interested Shareholder with whom the Business Combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the corporation’s shareholders receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Shareholder for its shares. Pursuant to the MGCL, these provisions also do not apply to Business Combinations approved or exempted by the board of directors of the corporation prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder becomes an Interested Shareholder. Claims and Investigations; Performance Under Client Contracts; Litigation Management. Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against the Company could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. While we do maintain commercial insurance in an amount we believe is appropriate, we also maintain a significant level of self-insurance for the liabilities we may incur. We generally provide our services to our clients under contracts, and in certain cases we are subject to regulatory and/or fiduciary obligations (which may relate to, among other matters, the decisions we may make on behalf of a client with respect to managing assets on its behalf or purchasing products or services from third parties or other divisions within our firm). We face legal and reputational risks in the event we do not perform, or are perceived to have not performed, under those contracts or in accordance with those regulations or obligations. The precautions we take to prevent these types of occurrences, which we believe do represent a significant commitment of corporate resources, may nevertheless not be effective in all cases. Unexpected costs or delays could make our client contracts or engagements less profitable than anticipated. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could have an adverse effect on profit margins. In the event that we perform services for clients without executing appropriate contractual documentation, we may be unable to realize our full compensation potential or recognize revenue for accounting purposes, and we may not be able to effectively limit our liability in the event of client disputes. Because any disputes we have with third parties must generally be adjudicated within the jurisdiction in which the dispute arose, our ability to resolve our disputes successfully depends on the local laws that apply and the operation of the local judicial system, the timeliness, quality and sophistication of which varies widely from one jurisdiction to the next. Our geographic diversity therefore makes it unusually challenging to resolve any such disputes efficiently and/or effectively. Infrastructure Disruptions. Our ability to conduct a global business may be adversely impacted by disruptions to the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which they are located. This may include disruptions involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Jones Lang LaSalle or third parties with which we conduct business, or disruptions as the result of natural disasters (such as earthquakes), political instability or terrorist attacks. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events affecting only the buildings in which we operate (such as fires) or such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact on the cities where those buildings are located. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including Chicago, London, Singapore and Sydney, work in close proximity to each other in one or more buildings. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. The infrastructure disruptions described above may also disrupt our ability to manage real estate for clients or may adversely affect the value of real estate investments we make on behalf of clients. The buildings we manage for clients, which include some of the world’s largest office properties and retail malls, are used by numerous people daily, as the result of which fires, floods, defects and natural disasters can result in significant loss of life and, to the extent we are held to have been negligent in connection with our management of the affected properties, we could incur significant financial liabilities and reputational harm. While we have disaster recovery and crisis management procedures in place, there can be no assurance that they will suffice in any particular situation to avoid a significant loss. 13 Table of Contents Computer and Information Systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. If any of our financial, accounting or other data processing, e-mail or electronic information management systems do not operate properly or are disabled (including as the result of computer viruses, problems with the internet or sabotage), we could suffer a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of client data, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including disruptions of electrical or communications services, disruptions caused by natural disasters, political instability or terrorist attacks, or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The development of new software systems used to operate one or more aspects of our business, particularly on a customized basis, is complicated and may result in costs that cannot be recuperated in the event of the failure to complete a planned software development. A new software system that has defects may cause reputational issues and client or employee dissatisfaction, with business lost as a result. The acquisition or development of software systems is often dependent to one degree or another on the quality, ability and/or financial stability of one or more third-party vendors, over which we may not have control beyond the rights we negotiate in our contracts. Our business is also dependent, in part, on our ability to deliver to our clients the efficiencies and convenience afforded by technology. The effort to gain technological expertise and develop or acquire new technologies requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors do, we could lose market share. Risks Inherent in Making Acquisitions. We have made in the past, and anticipate that we may make in the future, acquisitions of businesses or business lines. In 2006, for example, we closed the acquisition of Spaulding & Slye, a significant business with approximately 500 employees. Any such acquisitions may subject us to a number of significant risks, including, among others: · Diversion of management attention; · Inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; · Inability to retain clients of the acquired business; · Exposure to legal, environmental, employment and other types of claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition, including those that may not have been adequately identified during the pre-acquisition due diligence investigation; · Inability to effectively integrate the acquired business and its employees; and · Potential impairment of intangible assets, which could adversely affect our reported results. Ability to Protect Intellectual Property; Infringement of Third-Party Intellectual Property Rights. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to identify and protect proprietary information and other intellectual property (such as our service marks, client lists and information, and business methods). Existing laws of some countries in which we provide or intend to provide services may offer only limited protections of our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements, and on copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to detect unauthorized use (for example, by former employees) or take appropriate or timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot be sure that the services we offer to clients do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services. Employee Misconduct. Like any business, we run the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. We do have a strong ethics policy, which is articulated in our Code of Business Ethics, and an overall Ethics Everywhere program that employs a number of different but complementary methods to reinforce the importance of integrity as our employees carry out their employment duties. In particular, we attempt to reinforce our commitment to sound ethics through regular employee communication, and we are continuously increasing our training efforts in this area. Ability to Continue to Maintain Satisfactory Internal Controls and Procedures. If we are not able to continue to successfully implement the requirements of Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our reputation, financial results and the market price of our stock could suffer. While we believe that we have adequate internal control procedures in place, we may be exposed to potential risks from the recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal controls and have their controls attested to by their independent auditors on an annual basis. We have evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls as required for purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to receive a positive attestation in future years, particularly since there is no precedent available with which to measure compliance adequacy, as the result of which the standards may change over time. If we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future that we cannot remediate in a timely fashion, we may be unable to receive a positive attestation at some time in the future from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents Item 