ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have a history of losses, and expect to incur additional losses in the future. We are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable. For the years ended September 30, 1999 through September 30, 2008, we experienced operating losses and as of September 30, 2008 our accumulated deficit was $5.0 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the near future. Our ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. 5 Table of Contents We are unable to control many of the factors affecting consumer spending, and declines in consumer spending our products could reduce demand for our products. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fuel prices, recession and fears of recession, war and fears of war, inclement weather, consumer debt, conditions in the housing market, interest rates, sales tax rates and rate increases, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security. In particular, an economic downturn leads to decreased discretionary spending, which adversely impacts our business. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our products, thus reducing our sales and harming our business and operating results. We must obtain the subscribers we lose in the ordinary course of business and, if we fail to do so, our revenue and subscriber base will decline. A substantial number of subscribers to our consumer products and services cancel their subscriptions each year. Cancellations may occur due to numerous factors, including: • changing subscriber preferences; • competitive price pressures; • general economic conditions; • subscriber dissatisfaction; • cancellation of subscribers due to credit card declines; and • credit or charge card holder turnover. If we fail to replace subscribers to our consumer products and services we lose in the ordinary course of business, our revenue may decline, causing a material adverse impact on the results of our operations. There can be no assurance that we can successfully replace the large number of subscribers that cancel each year. Marketing laws and regulations may materially limit our or our clients’ ability to offer our products and services to consumers. We market our consumer products and services through a variety of marketing channels, including direct mail, outbound telemarketing, inbound telemarketing, inbound customer service and account activation calls, email, mass media and the internet. These channels are subject to both federal and state laws and regulations. Federal and state laws and regulations may limit our ability to market to new subscribers or offer additional services to existing subscribers, which may have a material impact on our ability to sell our services. If we lose our ability to purchase data from any of the three major credit reporting repositories, which we are able to do through the three credit data resellers to whom they sell, each of which is a competitor of ours, demand for our services would decrease. We rely on the three major credit reporting repositories, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, to provide us with essential data for our consumer identity theft protection and credit management services, through our contract with Equidata, Inc. Our agreement with Equidata, Inc. expires in October 2009. That agreement may be terminated by them on 30 days’ notice in certain circumstances. Each of the three major credit reporting repositories owns its consumer credit data and is a competitor of ours in providing credit information directly to consumers, and may decide that it is in their competitive interests to stop indirectly supplying data to us. Any interruption, deterioration or termination of our relationship with Equidata, Inc., one of its two competitors, or one or more of the three credit reporting repositories would be disruptive to our business and could cause us to lose subscribers. 6 Table of Contents Our competitors, including those who have greater resources and experience than we do, may commercialize technologies that make ours obsolete or noncompetitive. There are many public and private companies, actively engaged in our line of business and that target the same markets that we target. Some of our current competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we do. Low barriers to entry into our line of business may result in new competitors entering the markets we serve. If our competitors market products that are more effective and less expensive than our products, we may not be able to achieve commercial success. Our long-term capital needs may require additional sources of capital, and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in negotiating additional sources of long-term capital. Our long-term capital needs may require additional sources of equity or credit. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in negotiating additional sources of equity or credit for our long-term capital needs. Our inability to have continuous access to such financing at reasonable costs could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we are a publicly-traded company and our stock is traded on National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.’s OTC Bulletin Board, or “OTCBB,” where there is limited visibility in the investment community. Moreover, our share volume averaged less than 5,000 shares per day during our fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. Raising equity capital could therefore be challenging for us. Any limitations on our ability to raise equity capital could significantly impact our ability to fund our operations or undertake future growth through expansion or acquisition. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and, if we are unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to design, develop, market and sell our systems could be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including William J. Caragol, our chief executive officer, president and acting chief financial officer, as well as the chairman of our board of directors, and key technical and operations personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly operations, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As of December 18, 2008, our current directors and executive officer beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 61.6% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. Conflicts of interest may arise between Blue Moon Energy Partners, LLC and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Blue Moon Energy and us, in a number of areas relating to our ongoing relationships. As of December 18, 2008, Blue Moon owned 31.5% of our outstanding common stock. Currently, Scott R. Silverman, our chairman of the board, is a manager of Blue Moon and controls a member of Blue Moon and William J. Caragol, our chief executive officer, president and acting chief financial officer, is a manager and member of Blue Moon. The equity interests of our directors and executive officers in Blue Moon could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to, among other matters, the desirability of a potential acquisition or joint venture opportunity or employee retention or recruiting. 7 Table of Contents It may be more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, it is not listed on a national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the Nasdaq Stock Market or any other national stock exchange or it has not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to an investor in violation of the penny stock rules, the investor may be able to cancel its purchase and get its money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell their shares of our common stock publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges and the NASDAQ. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could be subject to liability under applicable laws or our reputation may be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 