Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report, and we can not guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We assume no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual results. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a broad based molecular diagnostics company that develops, manufactures, and markets fully-integrated systems for genetic testing in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic, Industrial and Biothreat markets. Our systems enable rapid, sophisticated molecular testing for organisms and genetic-based diseases by automating otherwise complex manual laboratory procedures. Molecular testing involves a number of complicated and time-intensive steps, including sample preparation, DNA amplification and detection. Our easy-to-use systems integrate these steps and analyze complex biological samples in our proprietary test cartridges. We are currently the only company to have obtained Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments moderate complexity categorization for an amplified molecular test system and an associated specific infectious disease test on the market in the United States. Our efforts are currently focused on those applications where rapid molecular testing is particularly important, such as identifying infectious diseases and cancer in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market; food, agricultural and environmental testing in the Industrial market; and identifying bio-terrorism agents in the Biothreat market. Our two principal system platforms are the SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems. The SmartCycler system integrates DNA amplification and detection to allow rapid analysis of a sample. The GeneXpert system integrates sample preparation in addition to DNA amplification and detection. The GeneXpert system is designed for a broad range of user types ranging from reference laboratories and hospital central laboratories to satellite testing locations, such as emergency departments and intensive care units within hospitals, and doctors’ offices. The GeneXpert system represents a paradigm shift in the automation of molecular analysis, producing accurate results in a timely manner with minimal risk of contamination. Our GeneXpert system can provide rapid results with superior test specificity and sensitivity over comparable systems on the market today that are integrated but have open architectures. 1 Table of Contents We currently have available a relatively broad menu of tests and reagents for use on our respective systems. Our reagents and tests are marketed along with our systems on a worldwide basis. Sales for products within our specific markets are conducted through both direct sales and distribution channels worldwide. Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market sales in the United States are handled primarily on a direct basis, while sales in all markets for Europe and our markets in the rest of the world are handled on both a direct and distributor basis. Our marketing programs are managed on a direct basis. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to become the leading supplier of integrated systems and tests for genetic assessment in a variety of environments. Key elements of our strategy to achieve this objective include: • Provide a fully-integrated molecular testing solution to the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market. We believe our GeneXpert system will enable us to significantly expand our presence in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market, because we believe this system is currently the only closed, self-contained, fully-integrated and automated system for molecular testing commercially available. The GeneXpert system will allow healthcare providers to obtain timely, accurate results from a raw biological sample, with minimal risk of contamination. The system is currently available in a variety of configurations ranging from 1 to 16 individual test modules. To our knowledge, the system is also the only currently available system to offer true random access and on demand test capability. Additional configurations of the system are under development for high volume test requirements. • Obtain additional target rights. We expect to continue to expand our collaborations with academic institutions to develop and obtain target rights to various infectious disease and cancer targets. In addition, we will be focusing key business development activities on identifying infectious disease and cancer targets held by academic institutions or commercial operations for potential license or acquisition. • Continue to develop and market new tests. We plan to capitalize on our strengths in nucleic acid chemistry and molecular biology to internally develop new tests for our GeneXpert and SmartCycler systems. In addition, in order to more rapidly expand our test pipeline, we are working and expect to continue to expand collaborations with strategic partners and major academic medical centers to co-develop and validate additional tests • Enhance international platform. Internationally we are currently primarily focused on developing the European Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market. However, we also have and are developing programs for the markets in Japan and the rest of the world. We conduct our European sales and marketing operations through our French subsidiary, Cepheid SA, which has a facility, sales and customer support personnel and an established European distribution network. We will continue to expand our distribution capability in Europe on both a direct and distributor basis. In addition, we intend to expand in other international markets. • Continue to maintain applications in the Industrial and Biothreat markets. We currently sell products into the Industrial and Biothreat markets and expect to continue our offerings in these markets. PRODUCTS Our product portfolio consists of tests, reagents and instrument systems for the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic, Industrial, and Biothreat markets. Our two main systems are the SmartCycler, which is a system that integrates DNA amplification and detection for rapid batch or random access analysis in “real-time”, and a GeneXpert system, which incorporates sample preparation, nucleic acid extraction and purification, DNA amplification, and detection into a small self-contained single cartridge providing rapid “on-demand” molecular testing 24/7, offering medically relevant results when and where they are needed most. In the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market, we market tests for both the GeneXpert and the SmartCycler systems in the areas of healthcare associated infections, critical infectious disease, immuno-compromised transplantation, women’s health, and oncology. These tests include United States Food and Drug Administration 2 Table of Contents (“FDA”) cleared products, such as in vitro medical devices (“IVDs”), CE Marked (“CE IVD”), Analyte Specific Reagents (“ASRs”), and Research Use Only tests. We continue to develop tests for both systems. Our February 2007 acquisition of Sangtec Molecular Diagnostics AB (“Sangtec”) in Bromma, Sweden brought a relatively complete line of products for potential use in managing infections of immuno-compromised patients. We have integrated the Sangtec affigene family of real-time PCR molecular diagnostic products targeted at the immuno-compromised market into our existing European and U.S. portfolio of in vitro diagnostic products. The expanded line includes affigene assay kits for cytomegalovirus (“CMV”), Epstein-Barr Virus (“EBV”), Herpes Simplex Virus 1 and 2 (“HSV”), Hepatitis B Virus (“HBV”), Varicella Zoster Virus (“VZV”), BK Virus (“BKV”), and Aspergillus. In March 2007, we received FDA clearance to market our Xpert EV test, which runs on the GeneXpert system, for the presumptive qualitative detection of Enterovirus (“EV”) RNA in cerebrospinal fluid (“CSF”) as an aid in the laboratory diagnosis of EV infection in patients with a clinical suspicion of meningitis. The Xpert EV test, designed to detect EV RNA in CSF by reverse- transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction (“RT-PCR”), is the first test of its type to receive FDA clearance. Xpert EV is the first and only RT-PCR test that delivers EV results in less than two and a half hours compared to up to three and six days for standard culture testing. In April 2007, we received FDA clearance to market our Xpert MRSA test, which runs on the GeneXpert system, for the rapid detection of MRSA. Xpert MRSA results are delivered in just over one hour, identifying carriers of the potential pathogen and enabling healthcare organizations to promptly implement the proper infection control measures, leading to lower healthcare associated infection rates while improving patient care. This was our fourth clinical in vitro diagnostic test. In December 2007 we released Xpert MRSA/SA-BC (Blood Cultures) and Xpert MRSA/SA-S STI (Skin and Soft Tissue Infection) tests in Europe as CE IVD Mark products under the European Directive on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices. The tests are designed to enable simultaneous rapid detection of two leading causes of hospital and community acquired infections, MRSA and, Staphylococcus aureus, directly from blood cultures and soft tissue infection samples respectively. We expect to complete our clinical trials and submit the product to the FDA during 2008. During 2008, we expect to continue development programs for use with Clostridium difficile (“C. difficile”), vancomycin resistant enterococcus (“VRE”), drug resistant tuberculosis, sepsis, and a test for genetic polymorphisms in clotting factors II and V that are widely used to predict risk of thrombosis (blood clots). In the Industrial market, we sell our SmartCycler system along with general use PCR reagents and reaction tubes. In the Biothreat market, the GeneXpert system is the main platform. GeneXpert modules have been integrated into the Biohazard Detection Systems (“BDS”), purchased by the United States Postal Service (“USPS”). We have tests currently available for anthrax, pestis, and tullarensis. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The objective of our research and development programs is to develop high value test applications for the GeneXpert and/or SmartCycler systems for the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic, Biothreat, and Industrial testing market. We focus efforts on four main areas: a) systems engineering efforts to extend the multiplexing capabilities of our systems and to develop new low and high throughput systems, b) chemistry research in our Bothell, Washington facility to develop innovative and proprietary methods to design and synthesize oligonucleotide primers, probes, and dyes to optimize the speed, performance and ease-of-use of our assays, c) assay development efforts to design, optimize, and produce specific tests that leverage the systems and chemistry we have developed, and d) target discovery research to identify novel micro RNA targets to be used in the development of future assays. SALES We sell our products in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic, Industrial and Biothreat markets on both a direct and distributed product basis. 3 Table of Contents Distribution and collaboration arrangements bioMerieux, Inc. In December 2003, we entered into an agreement for a strategic commercial relationship with bioMerieux, Inc. (“bioMerieux”) for bioMerieux to develop DNA testing products using its proprietary Nucleic Acid Sequence-Based Amplification (“NASBA”) technology to be run on systems employing our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems. To date, bioMerieux has not commercialized a product based on our technology. bioMerieux SA. In January 2007, we entered into a program with bioMerieux SA for the development, production and marketing of a line of sepsis products, based upon our real-time PCR technologies. To date, no commercialized product has been jointly developed. Infectio Diagnostic, Inc./GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. In November 2003, we entered into a series of agreements with Infectio Diagnostics, Inc. (“IDI”). IDI merged with GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. in 2004. GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. was acquired by Becton, Dickson and Company (“BDC”) in February 2006. Under these agreements, we received non-exclusive worldwide, excluding Canada, distribution rights to IDI tests for GBS, MRSA and VRE that have been configured for use with the SmartCycler system. The distribution rights relating to tests for MRSA were terminated in November 2006, and the distribution rights relating to GBS terminated in April 2007. In the event that BDC introduces a VRE product for the SmartCycler system, our distribution rights relating to VRE tests will terminate two years from the date of such introduction. IDI received non-exclusive worldwide rights to distribute our SmartCycler system for use with IDI tests. Such IDI distribution rights, now owned by BDC, have an initial term that expires in November 2008. Applied Biosystems Group. In October 2002, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Applied Biosystems Group (“ABI”) to develop reagents for use in the USPS BDS program, which was developed by the consortium led by Northrop Grumman Corporation. Under the agreement, reagents are manufactured by ABI for packaging by us into our GeneXpert test cartridges and sold by us for use in the BDS. This agreement calls for the computed gross margin on sales of anthrax cartridges for the USPS BDS program to be equally shared between the two parties. USPS Program. In 2003, a Northrop Grumman-led consortium that includes Cepheid and other subcontractors developed the BDS for the USPS. This consortium was awarded a production contract, and installations were completed at the end of 2005. In August 2007, we entered into a five-year master purchase order with Northrop Grumman for the purchase of up to $200 million in anthrax test cartridges and associated materials used in BDS. The agreement covers the USPS fiscal years of 2007 through 2011. Under the terms of the agreement, the purchase quantity of anthrax tests will be determined on an annual basis, based on the USPS fiscal year of October 1 through September 30. We have received notice that expected test purchases for fiscal 2008 will be approximately two million cartridges. Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics. In May 2006, we entered into an agreement with the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (“FIND”) to develop a simple, rapid test that can detect mycobactrium tuberculosis and associated rifampin resistance from human sputum samples. Under the agreement, we are responsible for the development of a 6-color GeneXpert system to accomplish such test and the development of an enhanced manufacturing line for the manufacture of test cartridges used in the test. FIND will reimburse us at agreed upon amounts. The term of the development portion of the agreement is for 30 months. The supply term of the agreement is for twelve years, unless terminated by either party in accordance with relevant provisions of the agreement. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In December 2006, we entered into a contract with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) for the first two phases of a five phase program for the development of a new Point-of-Care in vitro diagnostic product that tests for influenza viruses A and B, and H5N1, providing general clinical utility for seasonal flu diagnosis in addition to its application in the case of an avian flu pandemic. Under the first two phases of the program, we were responsible to develop a pre-clinical development plan, a clinical development and a regulatory plan. In September 2007, the contract was terminated. 4 Table of Contents MANUFACTURING Our facilities and manufacturing processes are designed to comply with the quality standard set by the International Organization for Standardization and the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, enabling us to market our systems in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic, Industrial and Biothreat testing markets worldwide. In our manufacturing facilities, we assemble our instrument systems and produce reagents and tests for use on our GeneXpert and SmartCycler systems. We assemble our disposable reaction tubes on a custom, automated assembly line that is designed with an expandable capacity. We depend on suppliers for various components used in the manufacture of the SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems, disposable reaction tubes, and cartridges, some of which are our sole source for such components. We received ISO 13485:1996 certification in February 2003. In 2006 we received ISO 13485:2003 certification that includes CADMAS for European and Canadian product distribution. Our facility was inspected by the FDA during 2007 and found to be in compliance with Quality System Regulations. COMPETITION We face intense competition from an increasing number of companies that offer products in our targeted application areas. These competitors include: • companies developing and marketing sequence detection systems for industrial research products; • healthcare companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers; • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; • companies developing drug discovery technologies; and • companies developing or offering biothreat detection technologies. Several companies provide instruments and reagents for DNA amplification or detection. ABI and F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd (“Roche”) sell systems integrating DNA amplification and detection (sequence detection systems) to the commercial market. Roche, Abbott Laboratories, Becton, Dickinson and Company, Qiagen, Celera and GenProbe sell sequence detection systems, some with separate robotic batch DNA purification systems and sell reagents to the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market. Other companies, including Siemens, Third Wave Technologies and bioMerieux, offer molecular tests. We also face competition from both established and development-stage companies that are entering these markets. Several companies are currently making or developing products that may or will compete with our products. Our competitors may succeed in developing, obtaining FDA approval for, or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our potential products or that render our technologies and potential products obsolete. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that prevent us from successfully commercializing our products. In order to compete effectively, we will need to demonstrate the advantages of our products over alternative well-established technologies and products. We will also need to demonstrate the potential economic value of our products relative to these technologies and products. In many instances, particularly in the clinical genetics assessment area, our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources, and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we have. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and tactical discounts and have greater name recognition. If we fail to compete effectively against these and other competitors, we could lose sales, and our business will be harmed. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting sales of genetic and DNA analysis systems include the speed, integrated functionality and portability of the equipment, ease of use, the quality of the test results, price, market acceptance of the technology, regulatory approvals, particularly in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market, and possession of the necessary intellectual property licenses for specific markets, collaborations and distributor relationships for specific markets and tests, and the selection of tests available for the system. We believe 5 Table of Contents our products better integrate the various processes associated with DNA and RNA analysis than other currently available equipment, and that the speed, portability, flexibility, reliability and ease of use of our products are competitive. GOVERNMENT REGULATION In the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market, our products are generally regulated as medical device products by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries. In particular, FDA regulations govern activities such as product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, premarket clearance or approval, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product failures and distribution. Some of our products, depending on their intended use, will require either premarket approval (“PMA”) or 510(k) clearance from the FDA prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to four months from submission but can take longer. To date, we have received FDA clearance on Smart GBS, Xpert GBS, Xpert EV and Xpert MRSA. In addition, we have CE IVD-marked products for sale in Europe for Xpert BCR/ABL, Xpert GBS, Xpert EV, Xpert MRSA Xpert MRSA/SA-BC and Xpert MRSA/SA-SSTI on the GeneXpert system. We also have CE IVD-marked products for Smart GBS, EBV, CMV and VZV on the SmartCycler system. We have CE IVD marked the SmartCycler system and GeneXpert system for IVD use in EU countries. For the Industrial and Biothreat markets, some of our products may not need FDA or other regulatory approval; however, all of our products will be produced under ISO 13485 and Quality System Regulations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We integrate capabilities in systems design, development, production and DNA amplification technologies, along with design, development and manufacture of primers, probes, dyes, quenchers and other individual reagent components. We have and are continuing to develop our own proprietary intellectual property along with licensing specific third-party technologies. We currently have, either through assignment or exclusive license, 41 issued and allowed US patents along with 36 pending US patent applications. These do not include international counterparts. Our competitive success will be affected in part by our continued ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our inventions, technologies and discoveries, including intellectual property that includes technologies that we license. We have patents covering technologies of our own and have licensed technologies from others. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over applications submitted by third parties or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements, licenses and other contractual provisions and technical measures to maintain and develop our competitive position with respect to intellectual property. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. For example, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the United States. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside of the United States. Our trade secrets could become known through other unforeseen means. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology. Our competitors may also develop similar products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. Furthermore, any efforts to enforce our proprietary rights could result in disputes and legal proceedings that could be costly and divert attention from our business. We could also be subject to third-party claims that we require additional licenses for our products, and such claims could interfere with our business. From time to time, third parties have contacted us regarding their intellectual property, whether to license intellectual property, or in some instances, alleging potential infringement. If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could face costly litigation, which could cause us to pay substantial 6 Table of Contents damages and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products. Even if our products were determined not to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could incur substantial costs in defending any such claims. We hold an exclusive license to key technologies from Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (“LLNL”) related to thermal cycling with integrated optical detection. This license is limited to the fields of nucleic acid analysis and ligand binding tests and contains diligence and U.S. preference provisions. These technologies have resulted in three issued U.S. patents and two pending international counterpart patent applications. The LLNL technologies are the basis of our I-CORE module and encompass the key I-CORE features. In April 2004, we entered into a patent license agreement with Applera for a non-exclusive worldwide license to make, use, and sell our products incorporating technology covered by Applera patents. In June 2006, the patent license agreement was expanded to include additional products. In July 2004, we entered into an agreement with Roche that provides us with rights under a broad range of Roche patents, which include patents relating to the PCR process, reverse transcription-based methods, nucleic acid quantification methods, real-time PCR detection process and composition, and patents relating to methods for detection of viral and cancer targets. In September 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Abaxis, Inc. (“Abaxis”), pursuant to which Abaxis granted us a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to certain Abaxis patents relating to lyophilization technology in accordance with the provisions specified in the agreement. In exchange for the license rights, we (i) made an upfront license payment, (ii) agreed to pay royalties during the term of the agreement and (iii) agreed to pay a yearly license maintenance fee during the term of the agreement, which fee will be creditable against any royalties due during such calendar year. In November 2005, we entered into a license agreement with DxS Limited (“DxS”), a private United Kingdom based company, pursuant to which DxS granted us a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to the DxS Scorpions patents and other intellectual property rights relating to its Scorpions technology for the real-time PCR detection of nucleic acid amplification. Under the amended agreement, and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, we will be able to use the licensed rights to develop and sell test products incorporating the licensed technology in the human in vitro diagnostics field, in addition to the environmental, veterinarian, forensics identity relationship testing and agricultural fields. In September 2006, we entered in a sublicense agreement with Abbott Laboratories (“Abbott”), pursuant to which Abbott granted us a non-exclusive, world-wide, non-transferable right to Abbott’s exclusive license to certain patents from the Baylor College of Medicine. Under the sublicense agreement, we will be able to make, use, distribute and sell products incorporating the patented technology generally characterized as multiple genomic DNA amplification for deletion detection. In September 2006, we also entered into a license agreement with Abbott, pursuant to which Abbott granted us a non-exclusive, world-wide, non-transferable right to a certain Abbott patent. Under the license agreement, we will be able to make, use, distribute and sell products incorporating the patented technology generally characterized as detection of cervical chlamydia trachomatis infection. In January 2007, we entered into a sublicense agreement with bioMerieux SA, pursuant to which bioMerieux SA granted us a non-exclusive, worldwide, irrevocable sublicense to certain patents that relate to the diagnosis of MRSA. The patents are owned by Kainos Laboratories Inc. and Professor Keiichi Hiramatsu and have been exclusively licensed to bioMerieux SA with the right for bioMerieux SA to sub-license. Under the sublicense agreement, and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, we will be able to use the licensed rights to develop and sell products for use with our GeneXpert and SmartCycler systems. We intend to actively pursue acquisitions of additional molecular markers and/or complementary products, technologies or companies in the fields of oncology, infectious diseases and other fields appropriate for molecular diagnostics. Under this program, we made our first significant technology acquisition during 2006 in the emerging field of micro RNA technology. Based on this acquisition, we currently have over 600 micro RNA targets under evaluation, and an additional 1,400 candidates are under investigation. These targets are expected to lead to specific potential test opportunities in the cancer and infectious disease areas. 7 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2007, we had 473 full-time equivalent and contract employees worldwide. At December 31, 2007 none of our employees were represented by a labor union. Many of our employees in Sweden are under a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The names of our executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies as of February 15, 2008 appear below: Our former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, John R. Sluis, retired on December 31, 2007. We entered into a separation and consulting agreement with Mr. Sluis, pursuant to which he will provide us with consulting services on a part-time basis until December 31, 2008. On February 6, 2008, we entered into an employment agreement with our new Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Andrew D. Miller, who we expect to begin employment with us on or about April 14, 2008. The following table and discussion set forth certain information with regard to our current executive officers. Name Age Position John L. Bishop 63 Chief Executive Officer and Director Peter J. Dailey, Ph.D. 54 Senior Vice President, Research and Development Russel K. Enns, Ph.D. 59 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs, Quality System and Reimbursement Robert J. Koska 50 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Commercial Operations David H. Persing, M.D., Ph.D 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Medical and Technology Officer and Director Humberto Reyes 62 Executive Vice President, Operations Joseph H. Smith 63 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary John L. Bishop. Mr. Bishop joined us as Chief Executive Officer and as a director in April 2002. Mr. Bishop served as President and a director of Vysis, a genomic disease management company, from 1993 to 2002 and as Chief Executive Officer from 1996 to March 2002. From 1991 until November 1993, Mr. Bishop was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MicroProbe Corporation, a biotechnology company, and, from 1987 until 1991, of Source Scientific Systems, a biomedical instrument manufacturing company. From 1984 to 1986, Mr. Bishop was President and Chief Operating Officer of Gen-Probe, Inc. From 1968 to 1984, Mr. Bishop held various management positions with American Hospital Supply Company and its affiliates, including a three-year assignment in Japan as an Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of International Reagents Corp., a joint venture between American Hospital Supply Company and Green Cross Corporation. Peter J. Dailey, Ph.D. Dr. Dailey joined us as Vice President, Research and Development in June 2006 and now serves as our Senior Vice President, Research and Development. Most recently, Dr. Dailey was the Senior Director of the Department of Infectious Disease in Discovery Research at Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. He is a microbiologist and virologist by training and has worked in the field of diagnostic microbiology for the last 25 years. Dr. Dailey worked as a Public Health Microbiologist at the California State Dept. of Health’s Viral & Rickettsial Disease Laboratory in Berkeley, California in the 1980s on the development of diagnostic assays for HIV and HTLV. He also worked many years as a Clinical Laboratory microbiologist in medical centers, hospitals, and reference laboratories. Beginning in 1990, he was employed at Chiron Diagnostics (now Bayer Diagnostics) working on the research, development, and application of nucleic acid probe assays, in particular viral load assays for HCV, HIV, and SIV. He has served as a subcommittee member on the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards committee revising Guidelines for Molecular Diagnostic Methods for Infectious Diseases and has authored or co-authored more than 35 peer-reviewed papers as well as several book chapters and reviews on infectious disease nucleic acid diagnostic assays. Russel K. Enns, Ph.D. Dr. Enns joined us as Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs, Quality System, Clinical Affairs and Medical Reimbursement in June 2003. Prior to joining Cepheid, Dr. Enns was Divisional Vice 8 Table of Contents President for Regulatory and Clinical Affairs, Quality Systems, and Medical Reimbursement at Vysis, Inc., a genomic disease management company that was acquired by Abbott Laboratories, from 1995 to April 2003. Before joining Vysis, he was Vice President, Technical Affairs of MicroProbe Corporation, a biotechnology company, from 1992 to 1995. Before joining MicroProbe Corporation, he was Director of Product Development Clinical Programs and Technical Affairs at GenProbe, Inc., a biotechnology diagnostic company, from 1984 to 1992. From 1979 to 1984, Dr. Enns was the Director of Cell Biology at Alpha Therapeutics Corporation, and from 1975 to 1979 he was a Senior Biochemist at Monsanto Corporation. He received his Ph.D. in Biochemistry from University of California at Davis in 1976. Dr. Enns is a charter member and past chair of the CLSI (formerly NCCLS) Area Committee on Molecular Methods, and he is currently a member of the CLSI Board of Directors. Robert J. Koska. Mr. Koska joined us in February 2005 and since September 2007 has served as our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Commercial Operations. Prior to joining Cepheid, Mr. Koska held various positions with Vysis, Inc. and subsequently Abbott Laboratories since 1996. Mr. Koska’s work experience includes Divisional Vice President, Vysis U.S. and Canadian Sales at Abbott Molecular Diagnostics, and Senior Vice President Worldwide Sales & Marketing, Vysis prior to the Abbott acquisition. Mr. Koska further previously held progressive positions of increased responsibility in sales and marketing at DIFCO Laboratories, Inc., Bristol Myers Genetic Systems Corporation, and Johnson and Johnson’s Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc. Mr. Koska has an MBA, Marketing Emphasis, from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, and a BS degree in Medical Technology from Wayne State University, Detroit, MI. David H. Persing, M.D., Ph.D. Dr. Persing first joined us as a director in May 2004, and became our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical and Technology Officer in August 2005. Dr. Persing was previously Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer at Corixa Corporation, a Seattle-based biotechnology company, until their acquisition by GlaxoSmithkline from 1999 to July 2005. From 1990 to 1999 he was a member of the Clinical and Research Faculty of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota where he researched programs on hepatitis viruses and tick-borne infections. In 1992 he founded and directed the Molecular Microbiology Laboratory at Mayo Clinic. He has authored over 240 peer-reviewed articles and served as Editor in Chief for three textbooks on Molecular Diagnostics, the most recent of which was published by ASM press in December 2004. Dr. Persing currently serves as a director of Monogram Biosciences, Inc. Humberto Reyes. Mr. Reyes joined us as Senior Vice President of Operations in November 2004 and became our Executive Vice President of Operations in November 2006. Prior to joining Cepheid, Mr. Reyes was an Operations Consultant with Brownsboro Group, LLC. from September 2003 to November 2004. Prior to joining Brownsboro, Mr. Reyes was a Senior Operations Consultant for EXPERTech Associates, consulting in medical devices and biotech industries from November 2001 to June 2003. Prior to that, he was Head of Operations for OXIS Health Products Inc., which developed, manufactured and marketed products for oxidative research and wellness programs from August 1997 to September 2001. He is an experienced operations executive with more than 25 years of progressive management experience in the diagnostic and related industries. Mr. Reyes’ work experience also includes Vice President, Operations, Dade Diagnostics at Baxter; Vice President/General Manager, Chromatography Division, Varian and Associates; and Sr. Vice President, Operations, Microgenics Corporation. Joseph H. Smith. Mr. Smith joined us in June 2003 and now serves as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. He has been Secretary of the Corporation since March 2004. From 1989 to April 2002, Mr. Smith was Vice President of Intellectual Property at Applied Biosystems Group and its predecessors, a biotechnology research equipment company, and during 2002-2003 was its Senior Vice President for Business Development. Prior to Applied Biosystems, Mr. Smith was a partner in the law firm of Wiseman, Jones, and Smith; and prior to that he was also a member of the Technical Legal Department of Hewlett-Packard. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC 9 Table of Contents maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. You can also access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. Our website is located at www.cepheid.com. We make available free of charge on our web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. Information contained on our web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. The charters of our Audit Committee, our Compensation Committee and our Nominating/Governance Committee, are available on the Investor Relations section of our website under “Corporate Governance”. Also available on that section of our website is our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which we expect every employee, officer, director, staffing agency worker and consultant to read, understand and abide by. This information is also available by writing to us at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this Report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Cepheid. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not achieve profitability. We have incurred operating losses in each period since our inception. We experienced net losses of approximately $13.6 million in 2005, $26.0 million in 2006 and $21.4 million in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $154.9 million. Our ability to become profitable will depend on our ability to continue to increase our revenues, which is subject to a number of factors including our ability to successfully penetrate the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market, our ability to successfully market the GeneXpert system and develop effective GeneXpert tests, the extent of our participation in the USPS BDS program and the operating parameters of the USPS BDS program, which will affect the rate of our consumable products sold, the success of our other collaborative programs, our ability to compete effectively against current and future competitors, global economic and political conditions and the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”. Our ability to become profitable also depends on our expense levels and product gross margin, which are also influenced by a number of factors, including the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products, the continued progress of our research and development of potential products, the ability to gain FDA clearance for our products, our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, license fees or royalties we may be required to pay, our ability to integrate acquired businesses and technologies, acquisition-related costs and expenses and the potential need to acquire licenses to new technology or to use our technology in new markets, which could require us to pay unanticipated license fees and royalties in connection with these licenses. Our expansion efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenues to offset higher expenses. These expenses, among other things, may cause our net income and working capital to decrease. If we fail to grow our revenue and manage our expenses and improve our product gross margin, we may never achieve profitability. If we fail to do so, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. If we cannot successfully commercialize our products, our business could be harmed. If our tests for use on the SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems do not gain continued market acceptance, we will be unable to generate significant sales, which will prevent us from achieving profitability. While we have received FDA clearance for our Xpert GBS, Xpert EV and Xpert MRSA tests, these products may not continue to 10 Table of Contents achieve commercial success. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of our products, including: • timely development of a menu of tests and reagents; • the results of clinical trials needed to support any regulatory approvals of our tests; • our ability to obtain requisite FDA or other regulatory clearances or approvals for our tests under development on a timely basis; • demand for the tests and reagents we are able to introduce; • the timing of market entry for various tests for the GeneXpert and the SmartCycler systems; • our ability to convince our potential customers of the advantages and economic value of our systems and tests over competing technologies and products; • the breadth of our test menu relative to competitors; • the extent and success of our marketing and sales efforts; and • publicity concerning our systems and tests. In particular, we believe that the success of our business will depend in large part on our ability to introduce additional tests for the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market. We believe that successfully building our business in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market is critical to our long-term goals and success. We have limited ability to forecast future demand for our products in this market. In addition, we have committed substantial funds to licenses that are required for us to enter the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market. If we cannot successfully penetrate the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market to exploit these licenses, these investments may not yield significant returns, which could harm our business. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of some of our products. In the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market, our products are regulated as medical device products by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries. In particular, FDA regulations govern activities such as product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, premarket clearance or approval, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product failures and distribution. Some of our products, depending on their intended use, will require premarket approval (“PMA”) or 510(k) clearance from the FDA prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to four months from submission but can take longer. The PMA process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain and generally takes from six months to one year or longer from submission. Clinical trials are generally required to support both PMA and 510(k) submissions. Certain of our products for use on our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems, when used for clinical purposes, may require PMA, and all such tests will most likely, at a minimum, require 510(k) clearance. We are planning clinical trials for other proposed products. Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, the commencement or completion of any clinical trials may be delayed or halted for any number of reasons, including product performance, changes in intended use, changes in medical practice and issues with evaluator Institutional Review Boards. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to grant premarket clearance or PMA for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals, or criminal prosecution. With regard to future products for which we seek 510(k) clearance or PMA from the FDA, any failure or material delay to obtain such clearance or approval could harm our business. If the FDA were to disagree with our regulatory assessment and conclude that approval or clearance is necessary to market the products, we could be forced to cease marketing the products and seek approval or clearance. With regard to those future products for which we will seek 510(k) clearance or PMA from the FDA, any failure or material delay to obtain such clearance or approval could harm our business. In addition, it is possible that the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product 11 Table of Contents development or marketing, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products and could harm our business. Our manufacturing facilities located in Sunnyvale, California, Bothell, Washington and Bromma, Sweden, where we assemble and produce the SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems, cartridges and other molecular diagnostic kits and reagents, are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. For example, these facilities are subject to Quality System Regulations (“QSR”) of the FDA and are subject to annual inspection and licensing by the State of California and European regulatory agencies. If we fail to maintain these facilities in accordance with the QSR requirements, international quality standards or other regulatory requirements, our manufacturing process could be suspended or terminated, which would prevent us from being able to provide products to our customers in a timely fashion and therefore harm our business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has issued a final interpretation of the regulations governing the sale of Analyte Specific Reagent products which could prevent or delay our sales of these products and harm our business. In September 2006, the FDA published “Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Commercially Distributed Analyte Specific Reagents (“ASRs”): Frequently Asked Questions” clarifying the FDA’s interpretation of the regulations governing the sale of ASR products. On September 14, 2007, the FDA published its final guidance that becomes effectively enforced on September 15, 2008. ASRs are a class of products that do not require regulatory clearance or approval but do require compliance with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice Regulations. The final guidance contains changes in interpretation of the ASR regulations with regard to which products may be characterized as ASRs that represent a departure from what we believe had been the previous FDA practice and policy, in particular, the final guidance excludes reagent mixtures used to detect multiple targets from the definition of ASRs. The changes in the final ASR guidance may require modifications of some of our ASR products for us to continue selling them, or may require us to seek FDA clearance in order to sell them. In addition, the final guidance may curtail our interest in developing any new products that would qualify as ASRs. We rely on licenses of key technology from third parties and may require additional licenses for many of our new product candidates. We rely on third-party licenses to be able to sell many of our products, and we could lose these third-party licenses for a number of reasons, including, for example, early terminations of such agreements due to breaches or alleged breaches by either party to the agreement. If we are unable to enter into a new agreement for licensed technologies, either on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, we may be unable to sell some of our products or access some geographic or industry markets. We also need to introduce new products and product features in order to market our products to a broader customer base and grow our revenues, and many new products and product features could require us to obtain additional licenses and pay additional license fees and royalties. Furthermore, for some markets, we intend to manufacture reagents and tests for use on our instruments. We believe that manufacturing reagents and developing tests for our instruments is important to our business and growth prospects but may require additional licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to develop, manufacture and sell products, and our strategic plans and growth, could be impaired if we are unable to obtain these licenses or if these licenses are terminated or expire and cannot be renewed. We may not be able to obtain or renew licenses for a given product or product feature or for some reagents on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Furthermore, some of our competitors have rights to technologies and reagents that we do not have which may put us at a competitive disadvantage in certain circumstances and could adversely affect our performance. We enter into collaborations with third parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenues. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into collaborative arrangements to develop new products or to pursue new markets. These collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success, and these collaborations could be terminated prior to developing any products. Accordingly, we cannot 12 Table of Contents assure you that any of our collaborations will result in the successful development of a commercially viable product or result in significant additional future revenues in the future. Our participation in the USPS BDS program may not result in predictable contracts or revenues in the future. Our participation in the USPS BDS program involves significant uncertainties related to governmental decision-making and timing of deployment, and is highly sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and budgets. Budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies such as the USPS, sometimes without advanced notice. We cannot be certain that actual funding and operating parameters, or product purchases, will occur at currently expected levels or in the currently expected timeframe. We may face risks associated with acquisitions of companies, products and technologies, and our business could be harmed if we are unable to address these risks. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we intend to acquire or make other investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefit of any acquisition or investment. We will likely face risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including difficulties in the integration of the operations and services of an acquired company, integration of acquired technology with our products, diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses and impairment charges if future acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies, products or technologies that we acquire, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired intangible assets. We expect that our operating results will fluctuate significantly, and any failure to meet financial expectations may result in a decline in our stock price. We expect that our quarterly operating results will fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, such as those described elsewhere in this section, many of which are beyond our control. Because our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indicator of our future performance. Our operating results may be affected by the inability of some of our customers to consummate anticipated purchases of our products, whether due to changes in internal priorities or, in the case of governmental customers, problems with the appropriations process and variability and timing of orders, or manufacturing inefficiencies. If revenue declines in a quarter, whether due to a delay in recognizing expected revenue, unexpected costs or otherwise, our results of operations will be harmed because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. In particular, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses are not significantly affected by variations in revenue. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed and our ability to generate revenue could be diminished. Our revenues and other operating results will depend in large part on our ability to manufacture and assemble our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner. Any interruptions we experience in the manufacturing or shipping of our products could delay our ability to recognize revenues in a particular quarter. We have limited experience in manufacturing large volumes of products, and manufacturing problems can and do arise or we may be unable to adequately scale-up manufacturing in a timely manner or on a commercially reasonable basis if we experience increased demand. In the past, we have experienced problems and delays in production that have impacted our product yield and caused delays in our ability to ship finished products, and we may experience such delays in the future. We may not be able to react quickly enough to ship products and recognize anticipated revenues for a given period if we experience significant delays in the manufacturing process. If we are unable to manufacture 13 Table of Contents our products consistently and on a timely basis, our revenues from product sales, gross margins and our other operating results will be materially and adversely affected. If certain single source suppliers fail to deliver key product components in a timely manner, our manufacturing ability would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on certain single source suppliers that supply some of the components used in the manufacture of our instruments and our disposable reaction tubes and cartridges. If we need alternative sources for key component parts for any reason, these component parts may not be immediately available to us. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and production of these components may be delayed. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Shipments of affected products have been limited or delayed as a result of such problems in the past, and similar problems could occur in the future. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of our products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships or force us to curtail or cease operations. If certain of our products fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payers, our ability to sell products in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market would be harmed. Our ability to sell our products in the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for tests using our products will be available from: • government health administration authorities; • private health coverage insurers; • managed care organizations; and • other organizations. There are efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. Additionally, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of our products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using our products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products and whether adequate third-party coverage will be available. If our competitors and potential competitors develop superior products and technologies, our competitive position and results of operations would suffer. We face intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our target markets. These competitors include: • healthcare companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers; • companies developing and marketing sequence detection systems for industrial research products; • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; • companies developing drug discovery technologies; and • companies developing or offering biothreat detection technologies. Several companies provide instruments and reagents for DNA amplification or detection. ABI and Roche sell systems integrating DNA amplification and detection (sequence detection systems) to the commercial market. Roche, Abbott Laboratories, Becton, Dickinson and Company, Qiagen, Celera and GenProbe sell sequence detection systems, some with separate robotic batch DNA purification systems and sell reagents to the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic market. Other companies, including Siemens, Third Wave Technologies and bioMerieux, offer molecular tests. 14 Table of Contents If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, we could experience lost revenue, delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality molecular test systems. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. Our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies may be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected or our products are perceived as difficult to use. Despite testing, defects or errors could occur in our products or technologies. Furthermore, with respect to the BDS program, our products are incorporated into larger systems that are built and delivered by others; we cannot control many aspects of the final system. In the future, if our products experience a material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. Any failure in the overall BDS, even if it is unrelated to our products, could harm our business. Even after any underlying concerns or problems are resolved, any widespread concerns regarding our technology or any manufacturing defects or performance errors in our products could result in lost revenue, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, increased service and warranty costs, and claims against us. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our product and incur significant liabilities. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our technologies or systems are alleged to have caused harm or do not perform in accordance with specifications, in part because our products are used for sensitive applications. We cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product liability lawsuit brought against us. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • costs of related litigation; and • substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. If we become the subject of a successful product liability lawsuit, we could incur substantial liabilities, which could harm our business. We rely on relationships with collaborative partners and other third parties for development, supply and marketing of certain products and potential products, and such collaborative partners or other third parties could fail to perform sufficiently. We believe that our success in penetrating our target markets depends in part on our ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies. Relying on collaborative relationships is risky to our future success for these products because, among other things: • our collaborative partners may not devote sufficient resources to the success of our collaboration; • our collaborative partners may not obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; • our collaborative partners may be acquired by another company and decide to terminate our collaborative partnership or become insolvent; • our collaborative partners may develop technologies or components competitive with our products; • components developed by collaborators could fail to meet specifications, possibly causing us to lose potential projects and subjecting us to liability; • disagreements with collaborators could result in the termination of the relationship or litigation; 15 Table of Contents • collaborators may not have sufficient capital resources; • collaborators may pursue tests or other products that will not generate significant volume for us, but may consume significant research and development and manufacturing resources; and • we may not be able to negotiate future collaborative arrangements, or renewals of existing collaborative agreements, on acceptable terms. Because these and other factors may be beyond our control, the development or commercialization of these products may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. If we or any of our collaborative partners terminate a collaborative arrangement, we may be required to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization or we may need to cancel some development programs, which could adversely affect our product pipeline and business. If our direct selling efforts for our products fail, our business expansion plans could suffer, and our ability to generate revenue will be diminished. We have a relatively small sales force compared to our competitors. If our direct sales force is not successful, or new additions to our sales team fail to gain traction among our customers, we may not be able to increase market awareness and sales of our products. If we fail to establish our systems in the marketplace, it could have a negative effect on our ability to sell subsequent systems and hinder the planned expansion of our business. If our distributor relationships are not successful, our ability to market and sell our products would be harmed and our financial performance will be adversely affected. We depend on relationships with distributors for the marketing and sales of our products in the Industrial and Clinical Molecular Diagnostic markets in various geographic regions, and we have a limited ability to influence their efforts. We expect to continue to rely substantially on our distributor relationships for sales into other markets or geographic regions, which is key to our long-term growth potential. Relying on distributors for our sales and marketing could harm our business for various reasons, including: • agreements with distributors may terminate prematurely due to disagreements or may result in litigation between the partners; • we may not be able to renew existing distributor agreements on acceptable terms; • our distributors may not devote sufficient resources to the sale of products; • our distributors may be unsuccessful in marketing our products; • our existing relationships with distributors may preclude us from entering into additional future arrangements with other distributors; and • we may not be able to negotiate future distributor agreements on acceptable terms. We may be subject to third-party claims that require additional licenses for our products and we could face costly litigation, which could cause us to pay substantial damages and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products. Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, claims of which appear to overlap in many cases. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty regarding the extent of patent protection and infringement. Companies may have pending patent applications, which are typically confidential for the first eighteen months following filing, that cover technologies we incorporate in our products. Accordingly, we may be subjected to substantial damages for past infringement or be required to modify our products or stop selling them if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Moreover, from time to time, we receive correspondence and other communications from companies that ask us to evaluate the need for a license of patents they hold, and indicating or suggesting that we need a license to their patents in order to offer our products and services or to conduct our business operations. Even if we are successful in defending against claims, we could 16 Table of Contents incur substantial costs in doing so. Any litigation related to claims of patent infringement could consume our resources and lead to significant damages, royalty payments or an injunction on the sale of certain products. Any additional licenses to patented technology could obligate us to pay substantial additional royalties, which could adversely impact our product costs and harm our business. If we fail to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors could use our technology to develop competing products and our business will suffer. Our competitive success will be affected in part by our continued ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our inventions, technologies and discoveries, including our intellectual property that includes technologies that we license. Our ability to do so will depend on, among other things, complex legal and factual questions. We have patents related to some of our technology and have licensed some of our technology under patents of others. We cannot assure you that our patents and licenses will successfully preclude others from using our technology. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over applications submitted by third parties or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements, licenses and other contractual provisions and technical measures to maintain and develop our competitive position with respect to intellectual property. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. For example, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the United States. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside of the United States. Our trade secrets could become known through other unforeseen means. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology. Our competitors may also develop similar products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. Furthermore, any efforts to enforce our proprietary rights could result in disputes and legal proceedings that could be costly and divert attention from our business. The United States Government has certain rights to use and disclose some of the intellectual property that we license and could exclusively license it to a third party if we fail to achieve practical application of the intellectual property. Aspects of the technology licensed by us under agreements with third party licensors may be subject to certain government rights. Government rights in inventions conceived or reduced to practice under a government-funded program may include a non-exclusive, royalty-free worldwide license to practice or have practiced such inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us or our licensors (as applicable) to grant licenses which shall be exclusive under any of such inventions to a third party if they determine that: (i) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize such inventions in a particular field of use; (ii) such action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (iii) such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations. Further, the government rights include the right to use and disclose, without limitation, technical data relating to licensed technology that was developed in whole or in part at government expense. At least one of our technology license agreements contains a provision recognizing these government rights. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some, if not all, of our intellectual property rights, and thereby impair our ability to compete. We rely on patents to protect a large part of our intellectual property. To protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. 17 Table of Contents They would also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. We may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in our industry are generally uncertain. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, would be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Any public announcements related to these suits could cause our stock price to decline. Our sales cycle can be lengthy, which can cause variability and unpredictability in our operating results. The sales cycles for our systems products can be lengthy, which makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues in a given period, and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Sales of our products to the Industrial market often involve purchasing decisions by large public and private institutions, and any purchases can require many levels of pre-approval. In addition, many of these sales depend on these institutions receiving research grants from various federal agencies, which grants vary considerably from year to year in both amount and timing due to the political process. As a result, we may expend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or we may not be able to complete transactions on the schedule anticipated. Our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs. Our international operations have expanded recently. These operations are subject to a number of difficulties and special costs, including: • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • potential for exchange and currency risks; • potential difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties and expense in enforcing intellectual property rights; • business risks, including fluctuations in demand for our products and the cost and effort to conduct international operations and travel abroad to promote international distribution, and global economic conditions; • multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; and • political and economic instability. We intend to expand our international sales and marketing activities, including through our subsidiary in France, and enter into relationships with additional international distribution partners. We may not be able to attract international distribution partners that will be able to market our products effectively. Our international operations could also increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. If we cannot comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our products and services or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, foreign countries may impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business. 18 Table of Contents The nature of some of our products may also subject us to export control regulation by the US Department of State and the Department of Commerce. Violations of these regulations can result in monetary penalties and denial of export privileges. Our SmartCycler and GeneXpert products are marketed in Europe under the CE IVD mark, and we intend to introduce additional products under the CE IVD mark as we pursue our expansion plans. Our use of the CE IVD mark is based on self declarations of conformity with stated directives and standards of the European Parliament and Council and is subject to review by competent authorities in Europe. Our recently acquired subsidiary, Cepheid AB, successfully introduced CE IVD-marked products that require independent third party review recognized by competent authorities, for example, a CMV test for use on our SmartCycler instrument. Any finding of non-conformity under such a review could prevent or otherwise adversely affect our ability to market products in Europe and result in other consequences, including both criminal sanctions, such as the imposition of fines or penalties, and civil claims for damages from persons suffering damage as a result of the non-conformity. If we fail to retain key members of our staff, our ability to conduct and expand our business would be impaired. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of services of any of these persons could seriously harm our product development and commercialization efforts. In addition, we require skilled personnel in areas such as microbiology, clinical and sales, marketing and finance. Attracting, retaining and training personnel with the requisite skills remains challenging, and, as general economic conditions improve, is becoming increasingly competitive, particularly in the Silicon Valley area of California where our main office is located. If at any point we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to match our growth, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. If we become subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials, we could incur significant cost and time to comply. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including biological hazardous materials. We are subject to foreign, federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. We may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) and the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act in the United States. OSHA or the EPA may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that would have a material adverse effect on our operations. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our workers’ compensation insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. If a catastrophe strikes our manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and we would experience lost revenue. Our manufacturing facilities are located in Sunnyvale, California, Bromma, Sweden, and Bothell, Washington. Although we have business interruption insurance, our facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Various types of disasters, including earthquakes, fires, floods and acts of terrorism, may affect our manufacturing facilities. Earthquakes are of particular significance since our primary manufacturing facilities in California are located in an earthquake-prone area. In the event our existing manufacturing facilities or equipment is affected by man-made or natural disasters, we may be unable to manufacture products for sale or meet customer demands or sales projections. If our manufacturing operations were curtailed or ceased, it would seriously harm our business. 19 Table of Contents We might require additional capital to support business growth, and such capital might not be available. We may need to engage in additional equity or debt financing to support business growth and respond to business challenges, which include the need to develop new products or enhance existing products, conduct clinical trials, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Equity and debt financing, however, might not be available when needed or, if available, might not be available on terms satisfactory to us. In addition, to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. In addition, these securities may be sold at a discount from the market price of our common stock and may include rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Compliance with regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting is complex and expensive. Many laws and regulations, notably those adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, impose obligations on public companies, such as ours, which have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Our implementation of these reforms and enhanced new disclosures has required and will continue to require substantial management time and oversight and requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. Our business could be harmed by adverse economic conditions in our target markets or reduced spending in our industry. Our business depends on the overall demand in our industry. The markets we serve are emerging and the purchase of our products can be discretionary. Weak economic conditions in our target markets, or a reduction in spending in our industry even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including lower prices for our products and reduced unit sales. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 