Risk Factors.” Forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among other items: • our anticipated growth strategies; • our intention to introduce new products or enter into new licensing alliances; • our plans to open new retail stores; • our ability to make strategic acquisitions of selected licensees; • anticipated effective tax rates in future years; • future expenditures for capital projects; • our ability to continue to maintain our brand image and reputation; • our ability to continue to initiate cost cutting efforts and improve profitability; • our plans to expand internationally; and • our efforts to improve the efficiency of our distribution system. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements as a result of, among others, changes in the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors, changes in the economy, and other events leading to a reduction in discretionary consumer spending. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In light of these risks and uncertainties, we cannot assure you that the forward-looking information contained in this Form 10-K will in fact transpire. 18 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Risks Related to Our Business The loss of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Ralph Lauren’s leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success. The loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering Mr. Lauren, our other executive officers and certain other members of senior management. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and several other of our executive officers. A substantial portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of department store customers. Several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. We believe that a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including sales made by our sales force of Ralph Lauren Home products, are also made to our largest department store customers. Our three most significant department store customers accounted for 51.1% of our wholesale net sales during Fiscal 2005, while our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 64.6% of our wholesale net sales during Fiscal 2005. The department store sector is undergoing consolidation. Two of our largest wholesale customers, Federated Department Stores, Inc. and The May Department Stores Company have entered into a merger agreement and have stated that they expect to close the merger in the third quarter of 2005. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “BUSINESS — Operations — Customers and Service.” Our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the United States and Europe and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. Three of our customers, Dillard Department Stores, Inc., Federated Department Stores, Inc. and The May Department Stores Company, in aggregate constituted 44.9% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at April 2, 2005. As noted above, Federated Stores, Inc. and The May Department Stores Company have agreed to merge. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. See “BUSINESS — Credit Control.” 19 Table of Contents Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer’s inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by international manufacturers. During Fiscal 2005, less than 2%, by dollar value, of our men’s and women’s products were manufactured in the United States and over 98%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured in Asia and other countries. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. See “BUSINESS — Sourcing, Production and Quality.” We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. Our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. Two of the manufacturers engaged by us accounted for approximately 17% and 9% of our total production during Fiscal 2005. The primary production facilities of these two manufacturers are located in Asia. We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products. As of April 2, 2005, we source a significant portion of our products outside the United States through arrangements with over 270 foreign vendors in various countries. In Fiscal 2005, approximately 98%, by dollar volume, of our products were produced outside the U.S. primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. Risks inherent in importing our products include: • quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements with non-WTO countries. These agreements limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from these countries; • unilateral quotas imposed by the United States in May 2005 effecting seven product categories under the China Safeguard Agreement; the EU-China Memorandum of Understanding which restricts 10 product categories of imports through 2007; • changes in social, political and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; • the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; 20 Table of Contents • the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; • significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials; • significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; • institution of antidumping of countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and • imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the United States or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments; currently the EU and Canada are imposing additional duties on certain U.S. products in retaliation for the failure of the U.S. Congress to resolve the Byrd Amendment, and additional sanctions are threatened for 2006 in response to the U.S.’s failure to adequately respond to specific WTO decisions. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “BUSINESS — Sourcing, Production and Quality.” We are dependent upon the revenue generated by our licensing alliances. Approximately 53.2% of our income from operations for Fiscal 2005 was derived from licensing revenue received from our licensing partners. Approximately 33.5% of our licensing revenue for Fiscal 2005 was derived from three licensing partners. WestPoint Stevens, Inc., Impact21 and Jones Apparel Group, Inc. accounted for 14.2%, 12.1% and 7.2%, respectively. See “— Risks Related to our Business — An adverse result in the lawsuit that Jones filed against the Company could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.” In June 2003, one of our licensing partners, WestPoint Stevens, Inc. and certain of its affiliates filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy code. WestPoint Stevens, Inc. produces bedding and bath products for our Home Collection. On December 19, 2003, the United States Bankruptcy Court approved an amended licensing agreement between WestPoint Stevens, Inc. and us. The amended agreement provides for the same royalty rate and minimum royalties that are not materially less than the previous agreement. We had no other licensing partner which accounted for more than 10% of our licensing revenue in Fiscal 2005. The interruption of the business of any one of our material licensing partners due to any of the factors discussed immediately below could also adversely affect our licensing revenues and net income. We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner’s ability to: • obtain capital; • manage its labor relations; • maintain relationships with its suppliers; • manage its credit risk effectively; and • maintain relationships with its customers. Although some of our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our licensing partners’ products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. 21 Table of Contents Failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. See “Operations — Our Licensing Alliances.” Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the United States. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. In the course of our international expansion, we have, however, experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include Polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have in the past successfully resolved these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. See “Trademarks,” and Item 3 “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.” We cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands, expand our geographic coverage, increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring select licensees and enhancing our operations. Implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in Europe, Asia and other international areas. We may have difficulty hiring and retaining qualified key employees or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. In addition, Europe, as a whole, lacks the large wholesale distribution channels found in the United States, and we may have difficulty developing successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the major European countries. Implementation of our strategy also involves the continued expansion of our network of retail stores, both in the United States and abroad. We may not be able to purchase or lease desirable store locations or renew existing store leases on acceptable terms. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign currencies. These foreign currencies include the Japanese Yen, the Euro and the Pound Sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Approximately 40.9% of our licensing revenue was received from international licensing partners in Fiscal 2005. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7 “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 22 Table of Contents Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include: • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: • political instability and terrorist attacks; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European Union, Japan, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect our business in the future or may require us to modify our current business practices. An adverse result in the lawsuit that Jones filed against the Company could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the failure of Jones to meet the minimum sales volumes for the year ended December 31, 2002 under the license agreements for the sale of products under the “Ralph” trademark between us and Jones, these license agreements terminated as of December 31, 2003. We advised Jones that the termination of these licenses would automatically result in the termination of the licenses between us and Jones with respect to the “Lauren” trademark pursuant to the Cross Default and Term Extension Agreement between the Company and Jones dated May 11, 1998. The Lauren license agreements would otherwise have expired on December 31, 2006. On June 3, 2003, Jones filed a lawsuit against us in the Supreme Court of the State of New York alleging, among other things, that we breached our agreements with Jones with respect to the “Lauren” trademark by asserting our rights pursuant to the Cross Default and Term Extension Agreement, and that we induced Ms. Jackwyn Nemerov, the former President of Jones, to breach the non-compete and confidentiality clauses in Ms. Nemerov’s employment agreement with Jones. Jones stated that it would treat the Lauren license agreements as terminated as of December 31, 2003, and is seeking compensatory damages of $550.0 million, punitive damages and enforcement of the provisions of Ms. Nemerov’s agreement. Also on June 3, 2003, we filed a lawsuit against Jones in the Supreme Court of the State of New York seeking, among other things, an injunction and a declaratory judgement that the Lauren license agreements terminated as of December 31, 2003 pursuant to the terms of the Cross Default and Term Extension Agreement. The two lawsuits have been consolidated. On July 3, 2003, we filed a motion to dismiss Jones’ claims regarding breach of the “Lauren” agreements and a motion to stay the claims regarding Ms. Nemerov pending the arbitration of Jones’ dispute with Ms. Nemerov. On July 23, 2003, Jones filed a motion for summary judgement in our action against Jones, and on August 12, 2003, we filed a cross-motion for summary judgement. On March 18, 2004, the Court entered orders (i) denying our motion to dismiss Jones’ claims against us for breach of the Lauren agreements and (ii) granted Jones’ motion for summary judgement in our action for declaratory judgement the Lauren Agreements terminated on December 31, 2003 and dismissed our complaint. The order also stayed Jones’ claim against us relating to Ms. Nemerov pending arbitration regarding her alleged breach of her employment 23 Table of Contents agreement. On August 24, 2004, the Court denied our motion to reconsider its decision and we appealed the orders. On March 24, 2005, the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court affirmed the lower Court’s orders. On April 22, 2005, we filed a motion with the Appellate Division for reargument and/or permission to appeal its decision to the New York Court of Appeals. On June 23, 2005, the Appellate Division denied our request for reargument, but granted our motion for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals. If the Court of Appeals does not reverse the Appellate Division’s decision, the case will go back to the lower Court for a trial on damages. Although we intend to continue to defend the case vigorously, in light of the Appellate Division’s decision we recorded a reserve of $100.0 million during Fiscal 2005, which reduced Fiscal 2005 Income from operations from $399.7 million to $299.7 million. This charge represents management’s best estimate at this time of the loss incurred. No discovery has been held, and the ultimate outcome of this matter could differ materially from the reserved amount. Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • maintaining favorable brand recognition; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; • appropriately pricing products; • providing strong and effective marketing support; • creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and • obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. We also face competition from companies selling apparel and home products through the Internet. Although our Ralph Lauren Media, LLC joint venture does sell our products through the internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from Internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demands. Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business. At the same time, our focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to time, in our not having an adequate 24 Table of Contents supply of products to meet consumer demand and cause us to lose sales. See “BUSINESS — Sourcing, Production and Quality.” A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance and home products industries, including, among others: • general business conditions; • interest rates; • the availability of consumer credit; • taxation; and • consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products, may adversely affect our revenues. The current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect consumer spending and sales of our products. Our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced significant consolidation and other ownership changes. Two of our largest customers, Federated Department Stores, Inc. and The May Department Stores Company have agreed to merge. Some of our customers have operated under the protection of the federal bankruptcy laws. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry, including: • consolidating their operations; • undergoing restructurings; • undergoing reorganizations; or • realigning their affiliations. While to date these changes in the retail industry have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, our business could be materially affected by these changes in the future. See “— Risks Related to Our Business — A substantial portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of department store customers.” 