RISK FACTORS The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Because of these and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business will be harmed. The Company’s business has grown significantly over the past several years as a result of internal growth and acquisitions. This has placed significant demands on the Company’s management team, computer and telecommunication systems, and internal controls. To meet these demands, the Company intends to continue to add new members to its management team, make investments in computer and telecommunication systems and strengthen internal controls. The Company must also continue to integrate its acquisitions to ensure retention of key employees and customers of acquired companies. 16 We depend on continuous supply of our key products. Any shortages of key products could adversely affect our business. Many of the biopharmaceutical products the Company distributes are manufactured with ingredients that are susceptible to supply shortages. In addition, the manufacturers of these products may not have adequate manufacturing capability to meet rising demand. If any products we distribute are in short supply for long periods of time, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our relationships with our suppliers and the loss of any of our key suppliers could adversely affect our business. Any termination of, or adverse change in, our relationships with our key suppliers, or the loss of supply of one of our key products for any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Company’s two largest suppliers accounted for the following percentages of our total net sales in 2004 respectively: Ortho Biotech: 14%; and Amgen, Inc.: 10%. We have a single source of supply for many of our key products, including the products supplied by the Company’s two largest suppliers, each of which is the only manufacturer of those products. In addition, we have few long-term contracts with our suppliers. Our arrangements with most of our suppliers may be canceled by either party, without cause, on minimal notice. Many of these arrangements are not governed by written agreements. We depend on reimbursements from third party payors and changes in reimbursement policies or efforts by payors to recoup payments already made could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. The profitability of the Company depends in large part on reimbursement from third-party payors. In 2004, Aetna, Inc. accounted for approximately 7% of our net sales. In the future, most of these net sales will be made by our joint venture with Aetna, Aetna Specialty Pharmacy, LLC, which is an Aetna-branded specialty pharmacy operation and is currently owned 60% by the Company and 40% by Aetna. Aetna has an option to purchase the Company’s 60% interest beginning in 2008, subject to acceleration under certain circumstances. The loss of a payor relationship, or an adverse change in the financial condition of a payor, could result in the loss of a significant number of patients and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, competition for patients, efforts by traditional third-party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs, and the increasing influence of managed care payors, such as health maintenance organizations, have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement. If these trends continue, they could adversely affect our results of operations unless we can implement measures to offset the loss of revenues and decreased profitability. Our office-based and clinic customers seek reimbursement from third-party payors for the cost of pharmaceuticals and related medical supplies that we distribute. Changes in reimbursement policies of private and governmental third-party payors, including policies relating to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to these customers for our products and in turn, the amount these customers would be willing to pay for the products. Although our revenues in 2004 did not include significant amounts of reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid, changes in those reimbursement policies affect our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on us. Third-party payors also have contractual rights to audit our books and records to determine if they have overpaid us. If an audit would find that we received overpayments, we could be required, under the terms of our contractual relationship, to reimburse the payor. Subject to the outcome of the audit, we could be required to make a significant payment in order to satisfy our alleged contractual obligations. If payors seek to recoup payments already made to us, it could have a material adverse effect on us. The loss of one or more of our larger customers could hurt our business by reducing our revenues and profitability. As is customary in our industry, we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Significant declines in the level of purchases by one or more of our larger customers or the loss of one of these customers through industry consolidation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Also, an adverse change in the financial condition of any of these customers, including an adverse change as a result of a change in governmental or private reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on 17 our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have contracts with group purchasing organizations for physicians’ offices under which we are a recommended supplier of biopharmaceuticals. Failure to renew these contracts could cause a reduction in our sales through the loss of sales to members who determine not to purchase from us on their own, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The high level of competition in our industry places pressure on our profit margins and we may not be able to compete successfully. The specialty distribution segment of the healthcare industry in which we operate is highly competitive and is experiencing both horizontal and vertical consolidation. All of the products which we sell are available from sources other than us. The high level of competition in our industry places pressure on profit margins. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we have. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our current and potential competitors include: • other specialty distributors; • regional and national full-line, full-service pharmaceutical and medical supply distributors; • pharmacy benefit management companies; • retail pharmacies; • home infusion therapy companies; and • manufacturers that own distributors or that sell their products both to distributors and directly to users, including clinics and physician offices. Our failure to maintain and expand relationships with payors, who can effectively determine the pharmacy source for their members, could materially adversely affect our competitive position. Consolidation in our industry could affect our ability to serve patients. Medco Health Solutions, Inc., one of the largest pharmacy benefit managers, or PBM’s, entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Accredo Health, Incorporated (one of our largest competitors) on February 22, 2005, which combination will create the nation’s largest specialty pharmacy business. In addition, Caremark Rx, Inc. and AdvancePCS recently combined to form the nation’s second largest PBM, processing drug claims for about 95 million individuals with about 600 million prescriptions filled per year. Express Scripts, Inc., which provides PBM services to over 50 million members, acquired Curascripts, another specialty pharmacy competitor, on January 30, 2004. All of these PBM’s are our customers and competitors. We also expect there will be further consolidation among specialty pharmacy providers. Such events could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could cause our business and future growth prospects to suffer. As part of our growth strategy, we continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions involve many risks, including: • difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition candidates and in negotiating and consummating acquisitions on terms attractive to us; • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations of the acquired company; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 18 • risks of entering new geographic or product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • the assumption of undisclosed liabilities. In addition to the above risks, future acquisitions may result in the dilution of earnings and the amortization of goodwill and intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may need additional capital to finance our growth and capital requirements, which could prevent us from fully pursuing our growth strategy. In order to implement our growth strategy, we will need substantial capital resources and will incur, from time to time, short- and/or long-term indebtedness, the terms of which will depend on market and other conditions. We cannot be certain that existing or additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be unable to fully pursue our growth strategy. Further, additional financing may involve the issuance of equity or debt securities that would reduce the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders. We could be adversely affected by an impairment of the significant amount of goodwill and other intangibles on our financial statements. Our acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill on our financial statements. The goodwill was recorded because the fair value of the tangible net assets acquired was less than the purchase price. There can be no assurance that we will realize the full value of this goodwill. We evaluate on an on-going basis whether events and circumstances indicate that all or some of the carrying value of goodwill is no longer recoverable, in which case we would write off the unrecoverable goodwill as a charge to our earnings. As of January 1, 2005, we had goodwill of approximately $155 million, or 23% of total assets and 39% of shareholders’ equity. Since our growth strategy may involve the acquisition of other companies, we may record additional goodwill in the future. The possible write-off of this goodwill could negatively impact our future earnings. We will also be required to allocate a portion of the purchase price of any acquisition to the value of non-competition agreements, patient base and contracts that are acquired. The amount allocated to these items could be amortized over a fairly short period. As a result, our earnings and the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. Our business and our industry are highly regulated and if government regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us or our business, we may be subject to enforcement actions and material limitations on our operations. The specialty distribution industry is highly regulated. The Company and its customers are extensively regulated by federal, state and local government agencies. We are required to register our business for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with certain operating and security standards of, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, State Boards of Pharmacy, state health departments and other state agencies in states where we operate. Although we believe that we have obtained or are obtaining the permits and/or licenses required to conduct our business and operations, failure to have the necessary permits and licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we are subject to federal and state regulations which govern financial and other arrangements between healthcare providers, including the federal anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to significant civil sanctions and could result in suspension of our operations. See “Business—Government Regulation—Licensing.” In November 2004, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) requiring the Company to provide the DOJ with certain information regarding the promotion and marketing of Actimmune, a product manufactured by InterMune, Inc. The Company believes that the materials sought by the DOJ 19 are part of an ongoing investigation being conducted by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California. The Company is fully cooperating with the DOJ, however should the DOJ find that the Company acted improperly, it could subject the Company to fines and/or sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or financial condition. In addition, if the ongoing investigation by the DOJ were to result in decreased off-label prescriptions and orders for Actimmune from the Company, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. We are also subject to federal and state laws governing the confidentiality of patient information. In addition, recent federal legislation and related rule-making have resulted in new national standards for the protection of patient information in electronic health information transactions. Failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding medical information privacy and security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and rules, including laws and regulations that govern the activities of many of our customers that depend upon Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement in their businesses. See “Business—Government Regulation.” We cannot assure that such increased enforcement activities will not indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because the healthcare industry will continue to be subject to substantial regulations, we cannot guarantee that our activities will not be reviewed or challenged by regulatory agencies in the future. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could be harmed by changes in Medicare or Medicaid. Changes in Medicare, Medicaid or similar government health benefit programs or the amounts paid by those programs for our services may adversely affect our earnings. Such programs are highly regulated and subject to substantial changes and cost containment measures. In recent years, changes in these programs have modified payments to providers both positively and negatively. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, is having a significant impact on the U.S. drug delivery system and, correspondingly, on our business. The MMA expands drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries and changes drug pricing methodologies resulting in both increases and decreases in drug payments. The MMA changes Medicare’s payment methodology over the next three years from a system based on average wholesale price, or AWP, to one based on average sales price, or ASP, and provided for Medicare rate reductions that were effective January 1, 2004. Although the MMA impacted the Company in 2004, we expect potential additional impact in 2005, 2006 and thereafter, but the effect of which is not readily ascertainable at this time. We expect that the effect of the MMA will be to reduce prices and margins on some of the drugs that we distribute. At least one Medicaid program has adopted, and we expect other Medicaid programs, some states and some commercial payors to adopt, those aspects of the MMA that either result in or appear to result in price reductions for drugs covered by such programs. Adoption of ASP as the measure for determining reimbursement by state Medicaid programs for the drugs we sell could materially reduce our revenue and gross margins. In order to deal with budget shortfalls, some states are attempting to create state administered prescription drug discount plans, to limit the number of prescriptions per person that are covered, and to raise Medicaid co-pays and deductibles, and are proposing more restrictive formularies and reductions in pharmacy reimbursement rates. Any reductions in amounts reimbursable by other government programs for our services or changes in regulations governing such reimbursements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in average wholesale prices could reduce our pricing and margins. Many government payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, have paid, or continue to pay, us directly or indirectly at a percentage off a drug’s AWP. We have also contracted with a number of private payors to sell drugs at AWP or at a percentage off AWP. AWP for most drugs is compiled and published by several private companies, including First DataBank, Inc. Several states have filed lawsuits against pharmaceutical manufacturers for allegedly inflating reported AWP for prescription drugs. In addition, class action lawsuits have been brought by consumers against pharmaceutical manufacturers alleging overstatement of AWP. We are not responsible for such calculations, reports or payments; however, there can be no assurance that our ability to negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers will not be materially adversely affected by such investigations or lawsuits. 20 The federal government has also entered into settlement agreements with several drug manufacturers relating to the calculation and reporting of AWP pursuant to which the drug manufacturers, among other things, have agreed to report new pricing information, the “average sales price”, to government healthcare programs. The average sales price is calculated differently than AWP. The recently enacted MMA changes the way the federal government pays for certain Part B drugs. While the majority of our revenue is reimbursed by private payors, as the ASP methodology of reimbursement is implemented, it may affect our current AWP based reimbursement structure with our private payors. While we cannot predict the eventual results of these law changes, government proposals, investigations, or lawsuits, the effect of the MMA has been and will be to reduce prices and margins on some of the drugs that we distribute. If government payors or private payors revise their pricing based on new methods of calculating the AWP for drugs we handle or implement reimbursement methodology based on some value other than AWP, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation, including reducing the pricing and margins on certain of our products. Our business would be harmed if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces research, development and production of the types of drugs that are compatible with the services we provide. Our business is highly dependent on continued research, development, manufacturing and marketing expenditures of biopharmaceutical companies, and the ability of those companies to develop, supply and generate demand for drugs that are compatible with the services we provide. Our business would be materially and adversely affected if those companies stopped outsourcing the services we provide or failed to support existing drugs or to develop new drugs. Our business could also be harmed if there is any supply shortage, drug recall or adverse drug reaction, decline in product research, marketing or development, inability on the part of drug companies to finance product development because of capital shortages, change in the FDA approval process, or governmental or private initiative that would alter how drug manufacturers, health care providers or pharmacies promote or sell products and services. A disruption in our operations could hurt our relations with our customers. We depend upon our contractors and vendors and on our pharmacies and other facilities for the continued operation of our business of distributing biopharmaceutical products. In addition, our success depends, in part, upon our telephone sales and direct marketing efforts and our ability to provide prompt, accurate and complete service to our customers on a price-competitive basis. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including hurricanes, other severe weather, terrorist attacks, power interruptions and fires, could disrupt our operations and our ability to deliver our products, as well as the operations of our contractors and vendors. For example, during 2004 there were four hurricanes that impacted Central Florida and the ability of individuals and common carriers to work on certain days. In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption in our ability to deliver our services or products, including at our corporate headquarters building, our revenues could be reduced and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any continuing disruption in either our computer system or our telephone system could adversely affect our ability to receive and process customer orders and ship products on a timely basis, and could adversely affect our relations with our customers, potentially resulting in reduction in orders from customers or loss of customers. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We depend on key employees and the loss of a key employee could adversely affect our business. Our future performance will depend in part on the efforts and abilities of our key employees, and the loss of their services could have an adverse effect on our business. We have no key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. 21 If we become subject to liability claims that are not adequately covered by our insurance policies, we may have to pay damages and other expenses which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business exposes us to risks that are inherent in the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and the provision of ancillary services. A successful claim not covered by our professional liability and products liability insurance or in excess of our coverage under the insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain professional liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our debt may limit our future financial flexibility. In February 2004, we entered into a new unsecured revolving credit facility, which provides up to $150.0 million of indebtedness. At January 1, 2005, we had an outstanding principal balance of $40.0 million and an outstanding interest payable balance of $290,000. A portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal on the debt and will not be available for other purposes such as capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other expenses. The current level of our debt will have several important effects on our future operations, including, among others: • our debt covenants will require us to meet financial tests, and impose other limitations that may limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, including possible acquisition opportunities; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; • failure to meet our debt covenants could result in acceleration of the debt or an increase in the interest rate or administrative fees associated with our debt; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage to similar companies that have less debt; and • we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations may fluctuate on a quarterly basis, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others: • lower prices paid by Medicare or Medicaid for the drugs that we sell, including lower prices resulting from the MMA and other state and federal legislation and revisions in pricing methods, or the method of establishing AWP or ASP; • below-expected sales or delayed launch of a new drug or increases in our operating expenses in anticipation of the launch of a new drug; • price and term adjustments with our drug suppliers; • product shortages or an oversupply of product; • inaccuracies in our estimates of the costs of ongoing programs; • the timing and integration of our acquisitions; • changes in our estimates used to prepare our financial statements; • effectiveness of our sales force; • the annual renewal of deductibles and co-payment requirements that affect patient ordering patterns and physician prescribing patterns; and • general political and economic conditions, including interest rate fluctuations. 22 The market price of our common stock may experience substantial fluctuations for reasons over which we have little control. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market System. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including, among others: • fluctuations in our quarterly results; • announcements concerning us, our competitors, the drug manufacturers with whom we have relationships or the health care market; • overall volatility of the stock market; • changes in government regulations; • changes in the financial estimates we provide to the market or estimates by analysts; and • loss of key executives. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. These fluctuations, coupled with changes in our results of operations and general economic, political and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and under Indiana law make any change in control of us more difficult, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • the division of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • removal of directors only for cause and only upon a 66 2/3% shareholder vote; • the ability to issue additional shares of our common stock without shareholders’ approval; and • advance notice requirements for raising business or making nominations at shareholders’ meetings. The Indiana corporation law contains business combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. The Indiana corporation law also contains control share acquisition provisions that limit the ability of certain shareholders to vote their shares unless their control share acquisition was approved in advance. 23 Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in the Company’s financial reports and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. The Company must continue to document, test and evaluate its internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual reports by management regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and a report by the Company’s independent registered certified public accounting firm attesting to management’s assessment and the effectiveness of the internal control. The Company has, and expects that it will continue to, expend significant management time and resources documenting and testing the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. While management’s evaluation as of January 1, 2005 resulted in the conclusion that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of that date, the Company cannot predict the outcome of testing in future periods. If the Company concludes in future periods that its internal control over financial reporting is not effective, or if the Company’s independent registered certified public accounting firm is not able to render the required attestations, it could result in lost investor confidence in the accuracy, reliability and completeness of the Company’s financial reports. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. 24 