Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should be aware that we and our business are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of any investment. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and included elsewhere. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. 1. If we are not able to compete effectively in the highly competitive wireless communications industry, our future growth and operating results will suffer. Our business involves selling wireless communications services to subscribers, and as a result, our economic success is based on our ability to attract new subscribers and retain current subscribers. Our success will depend on the ability of our operating companies to compete effectively with other telecommunications services providers, including wireline companies and other wireless telecommunications companies, in the markets in which they operate. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry, including new services and technologies, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. a. The wireless industries in our markets are highly competitive, making it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, our financial performance will be impaired. Competition in our markets has intensified in recent periods, and we expect that it will continue to intensify in the future as a result of the entry of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. We also expect the current consolidation trend in the wireless industry to continue as companies respond to the need for cost reduction and additional spectrum. This trend may result in larger competitors with greater financial, technical, promotional and other resources to compete with our businesses. In addition, as we expand our marketing and sales focus to include a larger segment of high value consumers, we will be increasingly seeking to attract the same customers as our competitors, many of which are larger companies with more extensive networks, financial resources and benefits of scale that allow them to spend more money on marketing and advertising than us. Among other things, our competitors have: • provided increased handset subsidies; • offered higher commissions to distributors; • provided discounted or free airtime or other services; 21 • expanded their networks to provide more extensive network coverage; • developed and deployed networks that use new technologies and support new or improved services; • offered incentives to larger customers to switch service providers, including reimbursement of cancellation fees; and • offered bundled telecommunications services that include local, long distance and data services. We anticipate that competition will lead to continued significant advertising and promotional spending as well as continued pressure on prices for voice services and handsets. In addition, portability requirements, which enable customers to switch wireless providers without changing their wireless numbers, have been implemented or are proposed to be implemented in all of our markets. These developments and actions by our competitors could negatively impact our operating results and our ability to attract and retain customers. The cost of adding new customers may increase, reducing profitability even if customer growth continues. If we are unable to respond to competition and compensate for declining prices by adding new customers, increasing usage and offering new services, our revenues and profitability could decline. b. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, including a failure to complete the deployment of our third generation networks and new technology that supports services on these networks, we may not be able to attract and retain customers. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. For example, competitors in each of our markets have launched upgraded third generation networks designed to support services that use high speed data transmission capabilities, including internet access and video telephony. Although not in our markets yet, fourth generation networks with enhanced data speed and capacity have been launched in some markets around the world and could be launched by our competitors in markets in which we operate in the future. These and other future technological advancements may enable competitors who use other wireless technologies to offer features or services we cannot provide or exceed the quality of our current level of service, thereby making the services we offer less competitive. The 800 MHz spectrum that our operating companies are licensed to use is non-contiguous while the third generation technology platforms that are currently available operate only on contiguous spectrum. While in Brazil, Mexico, Chile and Peru we have rights to use spectrum that supports third generation technology, we have only recently launched the third generation services in Peru and are only beginning to develop and deploy these networks in Brazil, Mexico and Chile, which gives our competitors a significant time-to-market advantage. In addition, in Argentina, we do not hold rights to use additional spectrum in bands that would facilitate a transition to a new network technology, which could make it more difficult or impossible for us to deploy a third generation network in Argentina. Deploying the third generation networks in Brazil, Mexico, Chile and Peru requires a significant amount of time and capital. If we are unable to acquire additional spectrum in Argentina or are unsuccessful in our efforts to deploy our planned third generation networks in Brazil, Mexico, Chile and Peru, or if we are unable to raise sufficient capital to pay for those efforts, we will continue to be heavily reliant on Motorola, as the sole supplier of iDEN technology, to maintain the competitiveness of our services and customer equipment. If Motorola is unwilling or unable to upgrade or improve iDEN technology or develop other technology solutions to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, we will be less able to compete effectively and could lose customers to our competitors. For more information, see “3. Costs, regulatory requirements and other problems we encounter as we deploy our third generation networks could adversely affect our operations. The deployment of new technology and service offerings could distract management from our current business operations or cause network degradation and loss of customers.” As we deploy our third generation networks, we must develop, test and deploy new supporting technologies, software applications and systems intended to enhance our competitiveness both by supporting services our customers have come to expect like push-to-talk services and new services and features and by reducing the costs associated with providing these services. Successful deployment and implementation of new services and technology on our WCDMA networks depend, in part, on the willingness and ability of third parties to develop 22 successful new applications in a timely manner. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and deployment of new technology and related features or services in a timely manner, and the features and services we do develop may not be widely accepted by our subscribers or may not be profitable, which could result in us failing to recover our investment in this new technology. Any resulting subscriber dissatisfaction could affect our ability to retain subscribers and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. c. Some of our competitors are financially stronger than we are, which may limit our ability to compete based on price. Because of their size, scale and resources, and in some cases ownership by larger companies, some of our competitors may be able to offer services to customers at prices that are below the prices that our operating companies can offer for comparable services. Many of our competitors are well-established companies that have: • substantially greater financial and marketing resources; • larger customer bases; • larger spectrum positions; and • larger coverage areas than those of our operating companies. If we cannot compete effectively based on the price of our service offerings and related cost structure, our results of operations may be adversely affected. d. The network and subscriber equipment we currently use and expect to use is more expensive than the equipment used by our competitors, which may limit our ability to compete. Our iDEN networks utilize a proprietary technology developed and designed by Motorola that relies solely on the efforts of Motorola and any current or future licensees of this technology for product development and innovation. Additionally, Motorola is the primary supplier for the network equipment and handsets we sell for use on our iDEN networks. In contrast, all of our competitors use infrastructure and customer equipment that are based on standard technologies like the global system for mobile communications standard, or GSM, and WCDMA, which are substantially more widely used technologies than iDEN, are available from a significant number of suppliers and are produced in much larger quantities for a worldwide base of customers. As a result, our competitors benefit from economies of scale and lower costs for handsets and infrastructure equipment than are available to us for services on our iDEN network. In addition, because we plan to continue to use high performance push-to-talk service capabilities as a key differentiator, we expect that the cost of handsets capable of supporting those differentiated services on our third generation networks will be higher because they will not be produced at scale levels comparable with more standard WCDMA handsets. These factors, as well as the higher cost of our handsets and other equipment may make it more difficult for us to attract or retain customers, and may require us to absorb a comparatively larger cost of offering handsets to new and existing customers. The combination of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage and may reduce our growth and profitability. e. Our operating companies may face disadvantages when competing against formerly government-owned incumbent wireline operators or wireless operators affiliated with them. In some markets, our operating companies may not be able to compete effectively against a formerly government-owned monopoly telecommunications operator, which today enjoys a near monopoly on the provision of wireline telecommunications services and may have a wireless affiliate or may be controlled by shareholders who also control a wireless operator. For example, Telcel, which is one of our largest competitors in Mexico, is an affiliate of Telefonos de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V., which provides wireline services in Mexico and was formerly a government-owned monopoly. Similarly, in Peru, we compete with Telefonica Moviles, which is an affiliate of the Telefonica del Peru, S.A.A., which operates wireline services in Peru and was formerly a government-owned monopoly. Our operating companies may be at a competitive disadvantage in these markets because formerly government-owned incumbents or affiliated competitors may have: • close ties with national regulatory authorities; 23 • control over connections to local telephone lines; or • the ability to subsidize competitive services with revenues generated from services they provide on a monopoly or near-monopoly basis. Our operating companies may encounter obstacles and setbacks if local governments adopt policies favoring these competitors or otherwise afford them preferential treatment. As a result, our operating companies may be at a competitive disadvantage to incumbent providers, particularly as our operating companies seek to offer new telecommunications services. f. Our coverage is not as extensive as those of other wireless service providers in our markets, which may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. We have recently expanded the coverage of our iDEN networks, particularly in Mexico and Brazil, and we are either deploying or planning to deploy WCDMA networks in Brazil, Mexico, Chile and Peru that are generally expected to serve a wider coverage area than our iDEN networks, but our current networks do not offer nationwide coverage in the countries in which we operate and our iDEN technology limits our potential roaming partners for customers solely on iDEN networks. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively with competitors that operate mobile networks with more extensive areas of service. Additionally, many of our competitors have entered into reciprocal roaming agreements that permit their customers to roam on the other parties’ networks. The iDEN technology that we currently use in our networks is not compatible with the technology used by our competitors. Although some of the handset models that we sell are compatible with both iDEN 800 MHz and GSM 900/1800 MHz systems, we offer very few of these models and, as such, we are more limited in our ability to offer the breadth of roaming capabilities of our competitors. In addition, our customers are not able to roam on other carriers’ networks where we do not have roaming agreements. These factors may limit our ability to attract and retain certain customers. To date, we have not entered into roaming agreements with respect to GSM or WCDMA-based third generation services offered in the countries in which our operating companies conduct business, but have entered into agreements that allow our customers to utilize roaming services in other countries using the handsets that are compatible with iDEN and/or GSM systems. For handsets that operate on our WCDMA-based third generation network in Peru, we have entered into similar agreements with providers in a more limited group of countries that allow our Peruvian third generation customers to utilize roaming services in those countries. g. If our current customer turnover rate increases, our business could be negatively affected. In recent years, we have experienced a higher consolidated customer turnover rate compared to earlier periods, which resulted primarily from the combined impact of weaker economic conditions and the more competitive sales environments in the markets in which we operate. While this trend reversed to some extent in 2010 as we took steps and incurred expenses in our effort to maintain and improve subscriber retention and reduce our customer turnover rate, there can be no assurance that our efforts will maintain or lower our customer turnover rates. Subscriber losses adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because these losses result in lost revenues and cash flow. Although attracting new subscribers and retaining existing subscribers are both important to the financial viability of our business, there is an added focus on retaining existing subscribers because the cost of acquiring a new customer is much higher. Accordingly, an increase in customer deactivations could have a negative impact on our results, even if we are able to attract new customers at a rate sufficient to offset those deactivations. If we experience an increase in our customer turnover rate, our ability to achieve revenue growth and our profitability could be impaired. h. We may be limited in our ability to grow unless we successfully deploy our third generation networks, expand network capacity and address increased demands on our business systems and processes. Our customer base continues to grow rapidly. To continue to successfully increase our number of customers and pursue our business plan, we must economically: • deploy our planned third generation networks; 24 • expand the capacity of our iDEN networks and the capacity and coverage of our third generation networks; • secure sufficient transmitter and receiver sites at appropriate locations to meet planned system coverage and capacity targets; • obtain adequate quantities of base radios and other system infrastructure equipment; and • obtain an adequate volume and mix of handsets to meet customer demand. In particular, the deployment of our planned third generation networks will require us to deploy a significant number of new transmitter sites to meet the expanded coverage requirements for those networks resulting from differences in our commercial strategies, differences in the propagation characteristics of the spectrum bands being used to support those networks and the coverage requirements associated with the spectrum licenses being utilized for those networks. The effort required to locate and build a significant number of additional transmitter sites across our markets in coming years will be substantial, and our failure to meet this demand could delay or impair the deployment of our third generation networks, which would adversely affect our business. We have experienced significant subscriber growth in recent years, which has put demands on the capacity of our networks and our supporting systems. Our operating performance and ability to retain new customers may be adversely affected if we are not able to timely and efficiently meet the demands for our services and address any increased demands on our customer service, billing and other back-office functions. In addition, we are deploying new systems that are designed to support our sales, marketing and customer management functions, but the implementation of these new systems could heighten these risks or could distract management’s focus from day-to-day operations and goals. Problems we may encounter in deploying these new systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. i. If our networks do not perform in a manner that meets customer expectations, we will be unable to attract and retain customers. Customer acceptance of the services we offer on our networks is and will continue to be affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance and reliability of these networks. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers if we are unable to satisfactorily address and resolve performance or other transmission quality issues as they arise or if these issues limit our ability to deploy or expand our network capacity as currently planned or place us at a competitive disadvantage to other wireless providers in our markets. 2. We operate exclusively in foreign markets, and our assets, customers and cash flows are concentrated in Latin America, which presents risks to our operating plans. a. A decline in foreign exchange rates for currencies in our markets may adversely affect our growth and our operating results. Historically, in the countries in which we do business, the values of the local currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar have been volatile. The unstable global economic environment and recent weakness in the economies of some of the countries where we operate led to increased volatility in these currencies. Nearly all of our revenues are earned in non U.S. currencies, but we report our results in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can have a significant impact on our reported results that are unrelated to the operating trends in our business. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding debt is denominated in U.S. dollars. A decline in the values of the local currencies in the markets in which we operate makes it more costly for us to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations and affects our operating results because we generate nearly all of our revenues in foreign currencies, but we pay for some of our operating expenses and capital expenditures in U.S. dollars. Further, because we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, declines in the value of local currencies in our markets relative to the U.S. dollar result in reductions in our reported revenues, operating income and earnings, as well as a reduction in the carrying value of our assets, including the value of cash investments held in local currencies. Depreciation of the local currencies also results in increased costs to us for imported equipment. Accordingly, if the values of local currencies in the countries in which our operating companies conduct business depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, we would expect our operating results in future periods, and the value of our assets held in local currencies, to be adversely affected. 25 b. We face economic and political risks in our markets, which may limit our ability to implement our strategy and our financial flexibility and may disrupt our operations or hurt our performance. Our operations depend on the economies of the markets in which our operating companies conduct business, all of which are considered to be emerging markets. These markets are in countries with economies in various stages of development, some of which are subject to volatile economic cycles and significant, rapid fluctuations in terms of commodity prices, local consumer prices, employment levels, gross domestic product, interest rates and inflation rates, which have been generally higher, and in prior years, significantly higher than the inflation rate in the United States. If these economic fluctuations and higher inflation rates make it more difficult for customers to pay for our products and services, we may experience lower demand for our products and services and a decline in the growth of their customer base and in revenues. In recent years, the economies in some of the markets in which we operate have also been negatively affected by volatile political conditions and, in some instances, by significant intervention by the relevant government authorities relating to economic and currency exchange policies. We are unable to predict the impact that local or national elections and the associated transfer of power from incumbent officials or political parties to newly elected officials or parties may have on the local economy or the growth and development of the local telecommunications industry. Changes in leadership or in the ruling party in the countries in which we operate may affect the economic programs developed under the prior administration, which in turn, may adversely affect the economies in the countries in which we operate. Other risks associated with political instability could include the risk of expropriation or nationalization of our assets by the governments in the markets where we operate. Although political, economic and social conditions differ in each country in which we currently operate, political and economic developments in one country or in the United States may affect our business as a whole, including our access to international capital markets. c. Our operating companies are subject to local laws and government regulations in the countries in which they operate, and we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which could limit our growth and strategic plans and negatively impact our financial results. Our operations are subject to local laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, which may differ from those in the United States. We could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In some foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, persons may engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business. Our employees and agents interact with government officials on our behalf, including interactions necessary to obtain licenses and other regulatory approvals necessary to operate our business and through contracts to provide wireless service to government entities, creating a risk of payment that would violate the FCPA. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations as well as U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, contractors and agents will abide by our policies. The penalties for violating the FCPA can be severe. Any violations of law, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in each market in which we operate, one or more regulatory entities regulate the licensing, construction, acquisition, ownership and operation of our wireless communications systems. Adoption of new regulations, changes in the current telecommunications laws or regulations or changes in the manner in which they are interpreted or applied could adversely affect our operations. In some markets, we are unable, or have limitations on our ability, to provide some types of services we have planned to offer. These limitations, or similar regulatory prohibitions or limitations on our services that may arise in the future could increase our costs, reduce our revenues or make it more difficult for us to compete. The regulatory schemes in the countries in which we operate allow third parties, including our competitors, to challenge our actions. If our competitors are successful in pursuing claims such as these, or if the regulators in our markets take actions against us in response to actions initiated by our competitors, our ability to pursue our business 26 plans and our results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, in Mexico, certain aspects of the auctions, including the processes used to adopt the rules applicable to the auctions, the terms of those rules, the implementation of the auction process, the grant of the spectrum license to Nextel Mexico and its right to use the spectrum have been challenged in a number of legal and administrative proceedings brought primarily by our competitors in Mexico. While we believe that the auction rules were adopted consistent with applicable legal requirements in Mexico, the auction process was conducted properly and the licenses were awarded to Nextel Mexico in accordance with the auction rules, it is uncertain whether these proceedings will affect our ability to use the spectrum granted pursuant to those licenses. If these proceedings were to result in a loss of, or the imposition of a significant limitation of our ability to use, the spectrum awarded to Nextel Mexico, our plans to deploy the third generation network in Mexico could be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Similar challenges could arise with respect to future spectrum auctions in which we are a participant, and these challenges could adversely affect our ability to acquire the rights to use spectrum that would provide us with the ability to deploy new technologies that support new services that would position us to compete more effectively. Finally, rules and regulations affecting tower placement and construction affect our ability to operate in each of our markets, and therefore impact our business strategies. In some of our markets, local governments have adopted very stringent rules and regulations related to the placement and construction of wireless towers, or have placed embargoes on some of the cell sites owned by our operating companies, which can significantly impede the planned expansion of our service coverage area, eliminate existing towers, result in unplanned costs, negatively impact network performance and impose new and onerous taxes and fees. Our licenses to use spectrum in some of our markets require us to build our networks within proscribed time periods, and rules and regulations affecting tower placement and construction could make it difficult to meet our build requirements in a timely manner or at all, which could lead us to incur unplanned costs or result in the loss of spectrum licenses. d. We pay significant import duties on our network equipment and handsets, and any increases could impact our financial results. Our operations are highly dependent upon the successful and cost-efficient importation of network equipment and handsets from North America and, to a lesser extent, from Europe and Asia. Network equipment and handsets may be subject to significant import duties and other taxes in the countries in which our operating companies conduct business. Any significant increase in import duties in the future could significantly increase our costs. To the extent we cannot pass these costs on to our customers, our financial results will be negatively impacted. e. We are subject to foreign taxes in the countries in which we operate, which may reduce amounts we receive from our operating companies or may increase our tax costs. Many of the foreign countries in which we operate have increasingly turned to new taxes, as well as aggressive interpretations of current taxes, as a method of increasing revenue. For example, the Mexican government has enacted an excise tax on telecommunications services, increased the value-added tax rate and enacted an increase to the corporate income tax rate. In addition, our operating company in Brazil is required to pay two types of income taxes, which include a corporate income tax and a social contribution tax and is subject to various types of non-income related taxes, including value-added tax, excise tax, service tax, importation tax and property tax. In addition, the reduction in tax revenues resulting from the recent economic downturn has led to proposals and new laws in some of our markets that increase the taxes imposed on sales of handsets and on telecommunications services. The provisions of new tax laws may attempt to prohibit us from passing these taxes on to our customers. These taxes may reduce the amount of earnings that we can generate from our services or in some cases may result in operating losses. Distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, received from our operating companies may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by some countries in which these entities operate. Any of these taxes will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive from those operating companies. See “Part I. Operating Companies” for more information. In general, a U.S. corporation may claim a foreign tax credit against its Federal income tax expense for foreign withholding taxes and, under certain circumstances, for its share of foreign income taxes paid directly by foreign 27 corporate entities in which the company owns 10% or more of the voting stock. Our ability to claim foreign tax credits is, however, subject to numerous limitations, and we may incur incremental tax costs as a result of these limitations or because we do not have U.S. Federal taxable income. We may also be required to include in our income for U.S. Federal income tax purposes our proportionate share of specified earnings of our foreign corporate subsidiaries that are classified as controlled foreign corporations, without regard to whether distributions have been actually received from these subsidiaries. Nextel Brazil has received tax assessment notices from state and federal Brazilian tax authorities asserting deficiencies in tax payments related primarily to value added taxes, import duties and matters surrounding the definition and classification of equipment and services. Nextel Brazil has filed various petitions disputing these assessments. In some cases we have received favorable decisions, which are currently being appealed by the respective governmental authorities. In other cases, our petitions have been denied and we are currently appealing those decisions. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our potential tax obligations in Brazil. f. We have entered into a number of agreements that are subject to enforcement in foreign countries, which may limit efficient dispute resolution. A number of the agreements that we and our operating companies enter into with third parties are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of or through arbitration proceedings in, the countries or regions in which the operations are located. We cannot accurately predict whether these forums will provide effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. Even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain or enforce relief in the United States is also uncertain. 3. Costs, regulatory requirements and other problems we encounter as we deploy our third generation networks could adversely affect our operations. The deployment of new technology and service offerings could distract management from our current business operations or cause network degradation and loss of customers. We have acquired or successfully bid for new spectrum rights and have deployed or begun to deploy new third generation networks using that spectrum so that we may offer our customers new services supported by those networks. The rights to use this new spectrum come with significant regulatory requirements governing the coverage of our new networks and the timing of deployment of these networks. If we fail to meet these regulatory requirements, the applicable regulators could take action to revoke our spectrum rights. In addition, our deployment of these new networks will require significant capital expenditures and will result in incremental operating expenses prior to fully launching services. Costs could increase beyond expected levels in the event of unforeseen delays, cost overruns, unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes, engineering design changes, problems with network or systems compatibility, equipment unavailability and technological or other complications. In addition, our ability to attract and support customers that use these new networks could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully coordinate the deployment of those networks with our customer care, billing, order fulfillment and other back-office operations. In addition, we are deploying new systems that are designed to support our sales, marketing and customer management functions. The efforts associated with the deployment of our new networks and these supporting systems will require substantial management time and attention, which could distract management’s focus from our day-to-day operations and goals, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Deployment of new technology supporting new service offerings may also adversely affect the performance or reliability of our networks with respect to both the new and existing services and may require us to take action like curtailing new customers in certain markets. Any resulting customer dissatisfaction could affect our ability to retain customers and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. Additionally, we will need to raise additional funds in order to finance the costs associated with the development and deployment of our new networks. To do so, we may issue shares of common stock or incur new debt. Our ability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms to meet our funding needs will depend on the 28 conditions in the financial markets. See “4. We are dependent on external financing to meet our future funding needs and debt service requirements, and adverse changes in economic conditions could negatively impact our access to the capital markets. If we are unable to obtain financing when needed and on terms acceptable to us, our business may be adversely affected.” and “5. Our current and future debt may limit our flexibility and increase our risk of default.” for more information. 4. We are dependent on external financing to meet our future funding needs and debt service requirements, and adverse changes in economic conditions could negatively impact our access to the capital markets. If we are unable to obtain financing when needed and on terms acceptable to us, our business may be adversely affected. We are dependent on external financing to meet our future funding needs and debt service requirements. Our current plans to deploy and operate new third generation networks, as well as the costs associated with marketing and distribution of our related services requires substantial capital. In addition, we have significant outstanding indebtedness that will mature over the next five years, including most of the $459.0 million in our outstanding loan facilities and $1.1 billion in convertible debt that is scheduled to mature in 2012. Based on the level of capital needed to support our current plans, we believe it will be necessary for us to refinance or replace a significant portion of this indebtedness. Our funding needs may also increase to pursue one or more of the following opportunities: • acquisitions of spectrum licenses, either through government sponsored auctions, including auctions of spectrum that are expected to occur in Argentina, or through acquisitions of third parties, acquisitions of assets or businesses or other strategic transactions; • a decision by us to deploy new network technologies, in addition to the planned third generation network deployments in Brazil, Mexico, Peru and Chile, or to offer new communications services in one or more of our markets; or • our expansion into new markets or further geographic expansion in our existing markets, including the construction of additional portions of our network. Our funding needs could also be affected by changes in economic conditions in any of our markets generally, or by changes to competitive practices in the mobile wireless telecommunications industry from those currently prevailing or those now anticipated, or by other presently unexpected circumstances that may arise that have a material effect on the cash flow or profitability of our business. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain kinds of change of control events, we may be required to repurchase or repay a significant portion of our outstanding debt. Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of the currently available sources and could require us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. It will be necessary for us to access the credit and capital markets to support the combined funding requirements relating to: (i) the growth of our business, (ii) the acquisition of additional spectrum, (iii) capital expenditures in connection with the expansion and improvement of our wireless networks and the deployment of our planned third generation networks in Brazil, Mexico and Chile and (iv) the repayment of our existing indebtedness. While we believe that our current cash balances, the funds we expect to generate in our business and the funding opportunities that we believe are currently available to us will be sufficient to meet these funding needs, if there is an adverse change in capital market conditions similar to what occurred in 2008 and early 2009, our access to the necessary funding may be limited and the cost of funding could increase, which could make it more difficult for us to raise the capital we need to support our plan. If this occurs, our cash, cash equivalent and investment balances could be significantly depleted by the end of 2012. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of additional factors that we cannot presently predict with certainty, including the commercial success of our operations, volatility and demand of the capital markets and future market prices of our securities. If we fail to obtain suitable financing when it’s required, it could, among other things, result in our inability to implement our current or future business plans and negatively impact our results of operations. 29 5. Our current and future debt may limit our flexibility and increase our risk of default. As of December 31, 2010, the total outstanding principal amount of our debt was $3,342.7 million. We may, over time and as market conditions permit, incur significant additional indebtedness for various purposes, which may include, without limitation, expansion of our existing network, the acquisition of telecommunications spectrum licenses or other assets, the deployment of new network technologies and the refinancing, repayment or repurchase of outstanding indebtedness. The terms of the indentures governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. Our existing debt and debt we may incur in the future could: • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing that we may need to fund our business; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Furthermore, the indentures relating to our senior notes and certain of our financing agreements include covenants that impose restrictions on our business and, in some instances, require us and our subsidiaries to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial tests. Similar restrictions may be contained in future financing agreements. If we or our subsidiaries are not able to meet the applicable ratios and satisfy other tests, or if we fail to comply with any of the other restrictive covenants that are contained in our current or future financing agreements, we will be in default with respect to one or more of the applicable financing agreements, which in turn may result in defaults under the remaining financing arrangements, giving our lenders and the holders of our debt securities the right to require us to repay all amounts then outstanding. In addition, these covenants and restrictions may prevent us from raising additional financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities, which may affect our ability to generate revenues and profits. Our ability to meet our existing or future debt obligations and to reduce our indebtedness will depend on our future performance and the other cash requirements of our business. Our performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions and financial, business, political and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate cash flow from operations at or above current levels, that we will be able to meet our cash interest payments on all of our debt or that the related assets currently owned by us will continue to benefit us in the future. 6. The costs we incur to connect our operating companies’ networks with those of other carriers are subject to local laws in the countries in which they operate and may increase, which could adversely impact our financial results. Our operating companies must connect their telecommunication networks with those of other carriers in order to provide the services we offer. We incur costs relating to these interconnection arrangements and for local and long distance transport services relating to the connection of our transmitter sites and other network equipment. These costs include interconnection charges and fees, charges for terminating calls on the other carriers’ networks and transport costs, most of which are measured based on the level of our use of the related services. We are able to recover a portion of these costs through revenues earned from charges we are entitled to bill other carriers for terminating calls on our network, but because users of mobile telecommunications services who purchase those services under contract generally, and business customers like ours in particular, tend to make more calls that terminate on other carriers’ networks and because we have a smaller number of customers than most other carriers, we incur more charges than we are entitled to receive under these arrangements. The terms of the interconnection and transport arrangements, including the rates that we pay, are subject to varying degrees of local regulation in most of the countries in which we operate, and often require us to negotiate agreements with the other carriers, most of whom are our competitors, in order to provide our services. In some instances, other carriers offer their services to some of their subscribers at prices that are near or lower than the rates that we pay to terminate calls on their networks, which may make it more difficult for us to compete profitably. Our costs relating to these interconnection and transport arrangements are subject to fluctuation both as a result of changes in regulations in the countries in 30 which we operate and the negotiations with the other carriers. Changes in our customers’ calling patterns that result in more of our customers’ calls terminating on our competitors’ networks and changes in the interconnection arrangements either as a result of regulatory changes or negotiated terms that are less favorable to us could result in increased costs for the related services that we may not be able to recover through increased revenues, which could adversely impact our financial results. 7. Because we rely on one supplier for equipment used in our iDEN networks, any failure of that supplier to perform could adversely affect our operations. Much of the spectrum that our operating companies are licensed to use, other than the spectrum that we have recently acquired and plan to use to support our third generation networks, is non-contiguous, and Motorola’s iDEN technology is the only widespread, commercially available technology that operates on non-contiguous spectrum. As a result, Motorola is the primary supplier for the network equipment and handsets we sell for use on our iDEN networks. If Motorola fails to deliver system infrastructure equipment and handsets or enhancements to the features and functionality of our networks and handsets on a timely, cost-effective basis, we may not be able to adequately service our existing customers or attract new customers. Nextel Communications, a subsidiary of Sprint Nextel, is currently the largest customer of Motorola with respect to iDEN technology and, in the past, has provided significant support with respect to new product development for that technology. Sprint Nextel’s recently announced plans to decommission its iDEN network over the coming years could affect Motorola’s ability or willingness to provide support for the development of new iDEN handset models or enhancements to the features and functionality of our iDEN networks without us funding that development or agreeing to significant purchase commitments. This decommissioning could make it more difficult or costly for us to compete effectively in markets where we have not yet deployed our planned third generation networks. Lower levels of iDEN equipment purchases by Sprint Nextel could also increase our costs for network equipment and new network features, affect the development of new handsets and could impact Motorola’s willingness to support iDEN technology beyond their current commitments. We expect to continue to rely principally on Motorola for the manufacture of a substantial portion of the equipment necessary to construct, enhance and maintain our iDEN-based networks and for the manufacture of iDEN compatible handsets. Accordingly, if Motorola is unable to, or determines not to, continue supporting or enhancing our iDEN-based infrastructure and handsets, including potentially as a result of adverse developments affecting Motorola’s operations, profitability, and financial condition or other business developments, we will be materially adversely affected. Motorola recently completed a separation of its mobile devices and home division into a separate public entity called Motorola Solutions, Inc., to which our agreements have been assigned. In addition, in July 2010, Motorola announced that it had reached an agreement to sell certain of its operations relating to the manufacture of network equipment to Nokia Siemens Networks. Although Motorola has announced that the sale does not include its iDEN business, it is uncertain whether or to what extent the sale by Motorola of its other network equipment businesses could impact Motorola’s ability to support its iDEN business. While we cannot currently determine the impact of Motorola’s recently completed separation of the mobile devices business on its iDEN business, Motorola’s obligations under our existing agreements, including the obligation to supply us with iDEN handsets and network equipment, remain in effect. 8. Our reliance on indirect distribution channels for a significant portion of our sales exposes us to the risk that our sales could decline or cost of sales could increase if there are adverse changes in our relationships with, or the condition of, our indirect dealers. Our business depends heavily upon third party distribution channels for securing a substantial portion of the new customers to our services. In some of our markets, a significant portion of our sales through these indirect distribution channels is concentrated in a small number of third party dealers. Because these third party dealers are a primary contact between us and the customer in many instances, they also play an important role in customer retention. As a result, the volume of our new customer additions and our ability to retain customers could be adversely affected if these third party dealers terminate their relationship with us, if there are adverse changes in our relationships with these dealers or if the financial condition of these dealers deteriorates. In addition, our 31 profitability could be adversely affected if we increase commissions to these dealers or make other changes to our compensation arrangements with them. 9. If our licenses to provide mobile services are not renewed, or are modified or revoked, our business may be restricted. Wireless communications licenses and spectrum allocations are subject to ongoing review and, in some cases, to modification or early termination for failure to comply with applicable regulations. If our operating companies fail to comply with the terms of their licenses and other regulatory requirements, including installation deadlines and minimum loading or service availability requirements, their licenses could be revoked. This is particularly true with respect to the grants of licenses for spectrum we plan to use to support our third generation networks, most of which impose strict deadlines for the construction of network infrastructure and supporting systems as a condition of this license. Further, compliance with these requirements is a condition for eligibility for license renewal. Most of our wireless communications licenses have fixed terms and are not renewed automatically. Because governmental authorities have discretion as to the grant or renewal of licenses, our licenses may not be renewed or, if renewed, renewal may not be on acceptable economic terms. For example, under existing regulations, our licenses in Brazil and Peru are renewable once, and no regulations presently exist regarding how or whether additional renewals will be granted in future periods. In Mexico, we have filed applications to renew 31 of our licenses, all of which expired prior to their renewal. Nextel Mexico subsequently received renewals of 19 of the expired licenses. While we expect that the remainder of these renewals will be granted, if some or all of these renewals are not granted, it could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, the regulatory schemes in the countries in which we operate allow third parties, including our competitors, to challenge the award and use of our licenses. If our competitors are successful in pursuing claims such as these, or if regulators in our markets take actions modifying or revoking our licenses in response to these claims, our ability to pursue our business plans, including our plans to deploy third generation networks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 10. Any modification or termination of our trademark license with Nextel Communications could increase our costs. Nextel Communications has licensed to us the right to use “Nextel” and other of its trademarks on a perpetual royalty-free basis in Latin America. However, that license is limited to the use of the trademarks in connection with the offering of specified services, which may not include all of the services we propose to offer in the future, and Nextel Communications may terminate the license on 60 days notice if we commit one of several specified defaults (namely, failure to maintain agreed quality controls or a change in control of NII Holdings). If there is a change in control of one of our subsidiaries, upon 30 days notice, Nextel Communications may terminate the sublicense granted by us to the subsidiary with respect to the licensed marks. The loss of the use of the “Nextel” name and trademark could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 