risk factors for severe disease (smoking, diabetes, or being positive for the PST test). 11 Product Pipeline Summary The table below summarizes the key milestones completed of the products described above. We are launching our cardiovascular health and general nutrition tests in the first quarter of 2006 in North America through the Alticor business channel. We currently cannot predict the adoption rate of this test in the particular channel in which it is being launched. We have spent $3.1 million, $4.1 million and $3.5 million on research and development during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We expect to spend between $3.0 million and $3.5 million in 2006. These research and development expenses include research funded by Alticor. Laboratory Testing Procedure To conduct a genetic risk assessment test, the consumer collects cells from inside the cheek on a brush and submits it by mail to our laboratory. Our clinical laboratory then performs the test following our specific protocol and informs the consumer and, depending on the regulations in the particular state or (in Canada) province, his designated health care provider, of the results. During 2004, we completed the construction of our genetic testing laboratory (for which we obtained registration under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1988 (CLIA) in 2005) to process the test samples. The regulatory requirements associated with a clinical laboratory are addressed under the section titled “Government Regulation” on page 16. Marketing and Distribution Strategy We will market and distribute our products through strategic partnerships. The type of sales and marketing partner will differ based on the type of products. Genetic Risk Assessment Tests Our marketing partner for these products will likely be a consumer product company with nutritional products developed to mitigate a risk assessed by our tests. The nutritional products are likely to be personalized (matched to the results of a genetic test). 12 Preventive Nutritional Products Our sales and marketing partner for these products will most likely either be a consumer or a pharmaceutical product company with a sales force that calls on medical/dental professionals. Access to the product by patients may or may not require a prescription. The ideal partner is likely to have national or worldwide distribution capabilities. We are at an early stage of work in this area. Personalized Therapeutic Products Our sales and marketing partner for these products will likely be a pharmaceutical company that is a late entry in a particular disease market and is seeking a product with a differentiating feature. The ideal partner is likely to be progressive in genomics technology and have appreciation for the value of personalized medicine. We are at the very earliest stages of work in this area. Reimbursement Under our distribution agreement with Alticor, Alticor pays us directly for the processed tests and, therefore, we do not anticipate facing issues in third-party reimbursement in the near future. We have some products under development that may require third-party reimbursement. To the extent that some of our products are sold through the medical channel, our ability to successfully commercialize these products may depend on obtaining adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Strategic Alliances and Collaborations Our strategy is to develop products for research and clinical use and commercialize such products through strategic alliances. We have followed a strategy of working with strategic partners at the fundamental discovery stage in product development and in sales and marketing. This strategy has given us access to discoveries while reducing up-front research expenses and will give us access to markets without committing to the high costs of selling and advertising. Alticor In March 2003, we entered into a broad strategic alliance with Alticor to develop and market novel nutritional and skin care products. (To date, we have done little work in regard to skin care). The alliance utilizes our intellectual property and expertise in genetics to develop risk assessment tests and to aid Alticor in its effort to develop personalized consumer products. The alliance has included an equity investment, multi-year research and development agreements, a licensing agreement with minimal royalties on marketed products, the deferment of outstanding loan repayment and the refinancing of bridge financing obligations. The financial elements of this alliance are described in greater detail in the section titled “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We expect that this alliance will open our research and development products to our partner’s proven marketing and distribution channels (including in Asia). Alticor and we share a belief that the future of personalized nutritional supplementation and skin care will be based on an individual’s genetic makeup. This alliance is currently focused on developing genetic risk assessment tests to determine a genetic profile of an individual and developing nutritional supplements and skin care products that will benefit individuals of that genetic profile. 13 Academic Research Collaborations We have (or have had) active research collaborations at the following academic institutions: University of Sheffield We have followed a strategy of working with partners at the fundamental discovery stage. This strategy has given us access to discoveries while reducing up-front research expenses. For example, from 1994–2004 we had an alliance with Sheffield. Under this alliance, Sheffield conducted fundamental discovery and genetic analysis, and we focused on product development, including clinical trials, and the commercialization of these discoveries. The agreements with Sheffield and certain of its investigators expired in June 2004. We continue to have an agreement with one Sheffield investigator (Dr. Gordon Duff). Tufts University We have licensed genetic technology from Tufts University related to the control of fat metabolism, body weight, and metabolic syndrome. We have active research agreements with Tufts that are focused on the genetics of body weight and on the development of products that alter fat metabolism and body weight. These studies are under the direction of Drs. Jose Ordovas and Andrew Greenberg at Tufts. Mayo Clinic We previously funded and conducted a clinical study of genetics and cardiovascular disease at the Mayo Clinic. Although the clinical phase of this project is complete, further research on the clinical data and on the patients’ DNA continues in collaboration with Dr. Peter Berger who was the principal investigator at Mayo but is now Head of Interventional Cardiology at Duke University. California Pacific Medical Center (CPMC) We have studies with CPMC in late stages that are focused on the genetics of osteoporosis and the genetics of cardiovascular disease. These studies are under the direction of Drs. Stephen Cummings and Katherine Stone. Boston University We have funded research at Boston University Medical Center to determine the influence of IL-1 gene variations on biochemical factors involved in various inflammatory diseases that are the targets for drug development by multiple companies. We hope to use this information to develop pharmacogenetic tests. University of Arkansas In March 2002, we entered into a collaboration with the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences College of Medicine to study how genetic variations in inflammatory genes influenced risk for Alzheimer’s Disease and to identify potential drug targets for that disorder. The collaboration is small. In addition, we have recently completed studies at the University of Arkansas on the influence of genetic variations on muscle function with aging and in response to exercise. Yonsei University We entered into a collaboration with Yonsei University in Seoul, Korea to study the cytokine gene variations in certain Asian individuals as it relates to cardiovascular disease. Under the direction of 14 Yangsoo Yang and Jong Ho Lee, Yonsei University is performing a clinical study in Korea to determine the haplotypes of these individuals. PST® Commercial Partnerships Hain Diagnostika/ADS GmbH and Laboral International In December 2000, we entered into an exclusive seven-year license agreement with Hain Diagnostika/ADS GmbH (Hain) for the marketing, distribution and processing of PST® in all countries outside of North America and Japan. In May 2003, we amended the agreement with Hain to a non-exclusive license limited to the European Territory. Since then we added Laboral International as a non-exclusive PST® distributor in Europe. Revenue from Hain and Laboral International was minimal in 2005 and 2004. Kimball Genetics, Inc. In September 2000, we entered into a 5-year agreement with Kimball Genetics, Inc. to process PST® tests and market the product in the United States on a non-exclusive basis. Since December 2001, Kimball has been our sole marketing partner within the United States. We receive a royalty from Kimball for every PST® test processed. Revenue from Kimball was minimal in 2005 and 2004. We are currently operating under the terms of the expired agreement. Intellectual Property Our commercial success may depend at least in part on our ability to obtain appropriate patent protection on our drug discovery and diagnostic products and methods. We currently own rights in twenty issued U.S. patents, which have expiration dates between 2015 and 2020, and have twenty additional U.S. patent applications pending, which are based on novel genes or novel associations between particular gene sequences and certain inflammatory diseases, and disorders. Of the twenty issued patents, sixteen relate to genetic tests for periodontal disease, osteoporosis, asthma, coronary artery disease, sepsis and disease associated with IL-1 inflammatory haplotypes, three relate to BioFusion, our biologic modeling software, and one relates to a transgenic mouse model. We have been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S. patents and patent applications pending. We have received trademark protection for PST®, our periodontal genetic risk assessment test. Our proprietary technology is subject to numerous risks, which we discuss in “Risk Factors” beginning on page 17 of this report. Competition The competition in the field of personalized health is not well defined due to lack of an established market and customer base. There are a few companies offering predisposition tests and product recommendations but we believe they neither have the intellectual property nor the scientific credibility required to provide market leadership. There are a number of companies involved in identifying and commercializing genetic markers. The companies differ in product end points and target customers. The companies in the industry break down into four sectors, including, 1) predictive medicine companies, 2) SNP discovery companies, 3) personalized health companies, and 4) technology platform companies. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our potential competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, which may allow these competitors to discover important 15 genes or successfully commercialize these discoveries before us. If we do not discover disease-predisposing genes, characterize their functions, develop genetic tests and related information services based on such discoveries, obtain regulatory and other approvals, and launch these services or products before competitors, we could be adversely affected. Additionally, some of our competitors receive data and funding from government agencies. To the extent our competitors receive data and funding from those agencies at no cost to them, they may have a competitive advantage over us. In the case of newly introduced products requiring “change of behavior” (such as genetic risk assessment tests), multiple competitors may accelerate market acceptance and penetration through increasing awareness. Moreover, two different genetic risk assessment tests for the same disease may in fact test or measure different components, and thus, actually be complementary when given in parallel as an overall assessment of risk, rather than being competitive with each other. Furthermore, the primary focus of most companies in the field is performing gene-identification research for pharmaceutical companies for therapeutic purposes, with genetic risk assessment testing being a secondary goal. In contrast, our primary business focus is developing and commercializing genetic risk assessment tests for common diseases and forward-integrating these tests with additional products and services. Government Regulation The cheek cell samples, which are submitted by individuals, are collected using standard materials previously approved as medical devices. The testing procedure itself is performed in a CLIA clinical laboratory. It is possible that a changing regulatory climate could someday require advance regulatory approval of the launch of genetic risk assessment tests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some states forbid laboratories from accepting samples from consumers without a requisition order signed by a physician or other health care practitioner. Any state (or, in Canada, province), at any time could adopt new laws or regulations or change its interpretation of existing rules in a manner that constrains or forbids us to accept samples from consumers in that state without the intercession of a health care practitioner. We are endeavoring to comply with the relevant rules in each jurisdiction. The regulatory issues are difficult to anticipate. Other Information Our executive offices are located at 135 Beaver Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02452, and our telephone number is 781/398-0700. We were incorporated in Texas in 1986 and we re-incorporated in Delaware in March 2000. We maintain a website at www.ilgenetics.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports are available to you free of charge through the Investor Relations Section of our website as soon as practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We have included our website address only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. Employees As of February 28, 2006, we had 22 full-time and part-time employees. Of our employees, 15 were engaged primarily in the research, development and commercialization of tests and 7 were engaged primarily in administrative or managerial activities. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 16 Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and expect these losses to continue for some time. We incurred losses from operations of $5.9 million in 2003, $6.7 million in 2004 and $6.1 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $61.2 million. Our losses result primarily from research and development, general and administrative expenses. We have not generated, and we may never generate sufficient revenue from product sales to cover our operating expenses. We will need to generate significant revenue to continue our research and development programs and achieve profitability. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will achieve profitability. The market for genetic risk assessment tests is unproven. The market for genetic risk assessment tests is at an early stage of development and may not continue to grow. The general scientific community, including us, has only a limited understanding of the role of genes in predicting disease. When we identify a gene or genetic marker that may influence risk for disease, we conduct clinical trials to confirm the initial scientific discovery and to establish the scientific discovery’s clinical utility in the marketplace. The results of these clinical trials could limit or delay our ability to bring the test to market, reduce the test’s acceptance by our customers or cause us to cancel the program, any of which would limit or delay sales and cause additional losses. The marketplace may never accept our products, and we may never be able to sell our products at a profit. We may not complete development of or commercialize our other genetic risk assessment tests. The success of our genetic risk assessment tests will depend upon their acceptance as medically useful and cost-effective by patients, physicians, dentists, other members of the medical and dental community and by third-party payers, such as insurance companies and the government. We can achieve broad market acceptance only with substantial education about the benefits and limitations of genetic risk assessment tests. The market for personalized health is unproven. The competition in the field of personalized health is not well defined due to a lack of an established market and customer base. The concept is new and requires consumers to do things differently, hence may be considered a “disruptive technology”. Adoption of such technology requires substantial market development. Activities in these areas remain small and the overall market is unproven. There can be no assurance that these products will be successful upon launch or that they can be sold at sufficient volume to make them profitable. If customers do not accept our tests, or take a longer time to accept them than we anticipate, then it will reduce our anticipated sales, resulting in additional losses. We rely heavily on third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions on our behalf, which could limit our efforts to successfully market products. We have limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic risk assessment tests. We have relied and plan to continue to rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, over which we have limited influence. If these third parties do not successfully market our products, it will reduce our anticipated sales and increase our losses. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable marketing and distribution agreements with future third parties, or if in the future we elect to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we will incur significant costs and face a number of additional risks, including the need to recruit experienced marketing and sales personnel. While Alticor has far more experience and success in marketing, selling and distributing products than we do, we are dependent upon their success, and their failure to successfully market our products could reduce our anticipated sales and increase our losses. 17 If we fail to obtain additional capital, or obtain it on unfavorable terms, then we may have to end our research and development programs and other operations. We expect that our current and anticipated financial resources are adequate to maintain our current and planned operations through mid-2007. If we are not generating sufficient cash or cannot raise additional capital prior to that date, we will be unable to fund our business operations and will be required to seek other strategic alternatives. Our future capital needs depend on many factors. We will need capital for the commercial launch of additional genetic tests, continued research and development efforts, obtaining and protecting patents and administrative expenses. Additional financing may not be available when needed, or, if available, it may not be available on favorable terms. If we cannot obtain additional funding on acceptable terms when needed, we may have to discontinue operations, or, at a minimum, curtail one or more of our research and development programs. Because a single shareholder has a controlling percentage of our voting power, other stockholders’ voting power is limited. As of December 31, 2005, a single stockholder owned, or had rights to own approximately 57.4% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, this stockholder may be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws and the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. This stockholder may make decisions that are adverse to other stockholders’ or warrantholders’ interests. This ownership concentration may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Three of our four directors are individuals chosen by this single stockholder and that stockholder has the right to choose an additional director. These directors might pursue policies in the interest of this single stockholder to the detriment of our other stockholders. The Series A Preferred Stock has certain rights which are senior to common shareholder rights and this may reduce the value of the common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock, which was issued to Alticor in March 2003, accrues dividends at the rate of 8% of the original purchase price per year, payable only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors and are non-cumulative. If we declare a distribution, with certain exceptions, payable in securities of other persons, evidences of indebtedness issued by us or other persons, assets (excluding cash dividends) or options or rights to purchase any such securities or evidences of indebtedness, then, in each such case the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a proportionate share of any such distribution as though the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock were the holders of the number of shares of our common stock into which their respective shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible as of the record date fixed for the determination of the holders of our common stock entitled to receive such distribution. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution of any of our assets or surplus funds to the holders of our common stock by reason of their ownership thereof, the amount of two times the then-effective purchase price per share, as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations or splits with respect to such shares, plus all declared but unpaid dividends on such share for each share of Series A Preferred Stock then held by them. After receiving this amount, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall participate on an as-converted basis with the holders of common stock in any of our remaining assets. 18 The preferential treatment accorded the Series A Preferred Stock might reduce the value of the common stock. If we are unsuccessful in establishing additional strategic alliances, our ability to develop and market products and services may be damaged. Entering into strategic alliances for the development and commercialization of products and services based on our discoveries is an important element of our business strategy. We anticipate entering into additional collaborative arrangements with Alticor and other parties in the future. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. In addition, these alliance arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. If we fail to maintain existing alliances or establish additional strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements, then our ability to develop and market products and services may be damaged. In addition, the terms of any future strategic alliances may be unfavorable to us or these strategic alliances may be unsuccessful. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products or services by third-party payers, then our products and services may not be commercially viable. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affects the market for any healthcare service. These third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Should we enter the medical channel, our ability to successfully commercialize our existing genetic risk assessment test and others that we may develop depends on obtaining adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. The extent of third-party payer reimbursement may likely heavily influence physicians’ and dentists’ decisions to recommend genetic risk assessment tests, as well as patients’ elections to pursue testing. If reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, then we may not be able sell our products and services at a profit. In particular, third-party payers tend to deny reimbursement for services which they determine to be investigational in nature or which are not considered “reasonable and necessary” for diagnosis or treatment. To date, few third-party payers have agreed to reimburse patients for genetic risk assessment tests, and we do not know if third-party payers will, in the future, provide full reimbursement coverage for these genetic tests. If third-party payers do not provide adequate reimbursement coverage, then individuals may choose to directly pay for the test. If both third-party payers and individuals are unwilling to pay for the tests, then the number of tests we can sell may be significantly decreased, resulting in reduced anticipated sales and additional losses. If we fail to obtain patent protection for our products and preserve our trade secrets, then competitors may develop competing products and services, which will likely decrease our sales and market share. Our success will partly depend on our ability to obtain patent protection, in the United States and in other countries, for our products and services. In addition, our success will also depend upon our ability to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We own rights in twenty issued U.S. patents and have a number of additional U.S. patent applications pending. We have also been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S patents and patent applications pending. Our patent positions, and those of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize products and services depends on our ability to: · Obtain patents; · Obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others; 19 · Prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and · Protect trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may never afford meaningful protection for our technology or products. Further, others may develop competing products, which avoid legally infringing upon, or conflicting with, our patents. In addition, competitors may challenge any patents issued to us, and these patents may subsequently be narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements. The third parties we contract with may breach these agreements, and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our competitors may discover or independently develop our trade secrets. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our costs or prevent us from developing or marketing our products or services. We may not have rights under patents or patent applications that are related to our current or proposed products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, to develop or sell any proposed products or services, with patent rights controlled by third parties, our collaborators or we may seek, or may be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents and patent applications. If this occurs, we may have to pay license fees or royalties or both to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, our collaborators or we may be prohibited from developing or selling our products or services. If third parties believe our products or services infringe upon their patents, they could bring legal proceedings against us seeking damages or seeking to enjoin us from testing, manufacturing or marketing our products or services. Any litigation could result in substantial expenses to us and significant diversion of attention by our technical and management personnel. Even if we prevail, the time, cost and diversion of resources of patent litigation would likely damage our business. If the other parties in any patent litigation brought against us are successful, in addition to any liability for damages, we may have to cease the infringing activity or obtain a license. Technological changes may cause our products and services to become obsolete. Our competitors may develop risk assessment tests that are more effective than our technologies or that make our technologies obsolete. Innovations in the treatment of the diseases in which we have products or product candidates could make our products obsolete. These innovations could prevent us from selling, and significantly reduce or eliminate the markets for, our products. We may be prohibited from fully using our net operating loss carryforwards, which could affect our financial performance. As a result of the losses incurred since inception, we have not recorded a federal income tax provision and have recorded a valuation allowance against all future tax benefits. As of December 31, 2005, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $43.0 million and $870,000, respectively, for federal income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2025. As of December 31, 2005, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $20.0 million and $330,000, respectively, for state income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2010. Our ability to use these net operating loss and credit carryforwards is subject to restrictions contained in the Internal Revenue Code which provide for limitations on our utilization of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards following a greater than 50% ownership change during the 20 prescribed testing period. We have experienced two such ownership changes. One change arose in March 2003 and the other was in June 1999. As a result, all of our net operating loss carryforwards are limited in utilization. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of the carryforwards prior to utilization. In addition, in order to realize the future tax benefits of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, we must generate taxable income, of which there is no assurance. We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business. Our industry is highly competitive. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have considerably greater financial resources, research and development staffs, facilities, technical personnel, marketing and other resources than we do. Furthermore, many of these competitors are more experienced than we are in discovering, commercializing and marketing products. These greater resources may allow our competitors to discover important genes or genetic markers before we do. If we do not discover gene variants that influence disease risk and commercialize these discoveries before our competitors, then our ability to generate sales and revenue will be reduced or eliminated, and could make our products obsolete. We expect competition to intensify in our industry as technical advances are made and become more widely known. We are subject to government regulation which may significantly increase our costs and delay introduction of future products. Changes in existing regulations at either the state or federal level could require advance regulatory approval of genetic risk assessment tests, resulting in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of our activities without regulatory approval. If our genetic tests ever require regulatory approval, on either a state or federal level, then the costs of introduction may increase and marketing and sales of products may be significantly delayed. We anticipate that the testing procedure itself will be performed primarily in our own genetic testing laboratory, which currently is registered and will need to be certified under the auspices of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1988 (CLIA), administered by the Health Care Financing Administration. We anticipate there will also be additional state and local regulations governing the operation of this laboratory. An inability to obtain or maintain our CLIA certification or any applicable state or local certification would reduce our revenue and increase our net losses. Although it has not done so, the FDA could assert pre-market review of genetic tests. We may be subject to product liability claims that are costly to defend and that could limit our ability to use some technologies in the future. The design, development, manufacture and use of our genetic risk assessment tests involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Producers of medical products face substantial liability for damages in the event of product failure or allegations that the product caused harm. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but it is expensive and difficult to obtain, may not be available in the future on economically acceptable terms and may not be adequate to fully protect us against all claims. We may become subject to product liability claims that, even if they are without merit, could result in significant legal defense costs. We could be held liable for damages in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage, and any claim or resulting product recall could create significant adverse publicity. Ethical, legal and social issues related to genetic testing may reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised issues regarding the appropriate utilization and the confidentiality of information provided by genetic testing. Genetic tests for assessing a person’s likelihood of developing a chronic disease have focused public attention on the need to protect the privacy of genetic information. For example, concerns have been expressed that insurance carriers and employers may use these tests to 21 discriminate on the basis of genetic information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities prohibiting genetic testing or calling for limits on or regulating the use of genetic testing, particularly for diseases for which there is no known cure. Any of these scenarios would decrease demand for our products and result in substantial losses. Our dependence on key executives and scientists could adversely impact the development and management of our business. Our success substantially depends on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key employees, it could damage our development programs and our business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled managerial and scientific personnel. The pool of personnel with the skill that we require is limited. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense. We compete with numerous pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations in the highly competitive Boston, Massachusetts’s business area. Loss of the services of Dr. Philip R. Reilly, our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Kenneth Kornman, our President and Chief Scientific Officer, or Dr. Ramon Mohanlal, our Chief Medical Officer, could delay our research and development programs or otherwise damage our business. In March 2003, we entered into employment agreements with three-year terms with Dr. Reilly and Dr. Kornman. Each of these employees can terminate his employment upon 30 days notice. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. In a circumstance in which Alticor enters a business in competition with our own, our Directors might have a conflict of interest. In conjunction with our strategic alliance with Alticor, we have agreed to certain terms for allocating opportunities as permitted under Section 122(17) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This agreement, as set forth in the Purchase Agreement, regulates and defines the conduct of certain of our affairs as they may involve Alticor as our majority stockholder and its affiliates, and the powers, rights, duties and liabilities of us and our officers and directors in connection with corporate opportunities. Except under certain circumstances, Alticor and its affiliates have the right to engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business or have an interest in the same classes or categories of corporate opportunities as we do. If Alticor or one of our directors appointed by Alticor, and its affiliates acquire knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Alticor and its affiliates and us, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Alticor and its affiliates will not have a duty to inform us about the corporate opportunity or be liable to us or to you for breach of any fiduciary duty as a stockholder of ours for not informing us of the corporate opportunity, keeping it for its own account, or referring it to another person. Additionally, except under limited circumstances, if an officer or employee of Alticor who is also one of our directors is offered a corporate opportunity, such opportunity shall not belong to us. In addition, we agreed that such director will have satisfied his duties to us and not be liable to us or to you in connection with such opportunity. The terms of this agreement will terminate on the date that no person who is a director, officer or employee of ours is also a director, officer, or employee of Alticor or an affiliate. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares of common stock, which you may only be able to do at a loss. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash 22 dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares, which you may only be able to do at a loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 