ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Griffin's real estate business has a number of risk factors. The risk factors discussed below are those that management deems to be material, but they may not be the only risks facing Griffin. Additional risks not currently known or currently deemed not to be material may also impact Griffin. Adverse Economic Conditions and Credit Markets Griffin Land's real estate business may be affected by market conditions and economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy as a whole, conditions in the credit markets or by local economic conditions in the markets in which its properties are located. Such conditions may impact Griffin's results of operations, financial condition or ability to expand its operations as a result of the following: •The financial condition of Griffin Land's tenants may be adversely affected, which may result in tenant defaults under leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failures or for other reasons; •Significant job losses may occur, which may decrease demand for Griffin Land's office and industrial space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; •Griffin's ability to borrow on terms and conditions that it finds acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce its ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities, refinance existing debt, and/or increase future interest expense; •Reduced values of Griffin Land's properties may limit its ability to obtain debt financing collateralized by its properties or may limit the proceeds from such potential financings; and •A weak economy may limit sales of land intended for commercial/industrial use. Downturn in the Residential Real Estate Market Weakness in the residential real estate market may adversely affect Griffin Land's real estate development activities, including delaying the development and/or sale of Griffin Land's undeveloped land intended for residential use. Risks Associated with Concentration of Real Estate Holdings Griffin Land's real estate operations are concentrated primarily in the Hartford, Connecticut area, with additional operations in the Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania. Adverse changes in the local economies, state or local governmental regulations or real estate markets could impact Griffin Land's real estate operations, including the market's ability to absorb newly constructed space, Griffin Land's ability to retenant vacant space and have an adverse effect on rental rates. Griffin Land's real estate operations compete with other properties in the areas where it operates. The construction of new facilities by competitors would increase capacity in the marketplace, and an increase in the amount of vacancies in competitors' properties and negative absorption of space could result in Griffin Land experiencing longer times to lease vacant space, eroding lease rates or hindering renewals by existing tenants. 13 Risks Associated with Entering New Real Estate Markets In fiscal 2010, Griffin Land acquired a fully-leased 120,000 square foot industrial building in Breinigsville, Pennsylvania and a 51 acre parcel of undeveloped land in Lower Nazareth, Pennsylvania, known as Lehigh Valley Tradeport. In fiscal 2012, Griffin Land built, on speculation, a 228,000 square foot industrial building on a portion of Lehigh Valley Tradeport and in the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter, Griffin Land started construction on a 303,000 square foot industrial building in Lehigh Valley Tradeport. On December 28, 2012, Griffin Land completed the acquisition of approximately 49 acres of undeveloped land in Hanover Township, Pennsylvania. These acquisitions were Griffin Land's first purchases of properties outside of the Hartford, Connecticut market where Griffin Land's core real estate holdings are located. Griffin Land expects to continue to seek to acquire properties outside of the Hartford, Connecticut market. Operating in a real estate market that is new for Griffin Land creates additional risks and uncertainties to Griffin's operations. Potential Environmental Liabilities Griffin Land has extensive land holdings in Connecticut and Massachusetts, and, in fiscal 2010 began acquiring properties in the Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, Griffin Land may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous substances or petroleum products at its properties because of its current or past ownership or operation of the real estate. If previously unidentified environmental problems arise, Griffin Land may have to make substantial payments, which could adversely affect its cash flow. As an owner or operator of properties, Griffin Land may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with a contamination. The law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination. Changes in environmental regulations may impact the development potential of Griffin Land's undeveloped land or could increase operating costs due to the cost of complying with new regulations. Governmental Regulations Griffin Land's real estate operations are subject to governmental regulations that affect real estate development, such as local zoning ordinances. Any changes in such regulations may impact the ability of Griffin Land to develop its properties or increase Griffin Land's costs of development. Insurance Coverage Does Not Include All Potential Losses in the Real Estate Business Griffin Land carries comprehensive insurance coverage, including property, fire, terrorism and loss of rental revenue. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits. Griffin Land believes its properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses that are not generally insured against or that are not fully insured against. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of Griffin Land's properties, Griffin Land could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenue from the properties affected. Risks Associated with the Cost of Raw Materials and Energy Costs Griffin Land's construction activities could be adversely affected by increases in raw materials or energy costs. As petroleum and other energy costs increase, products used in the construction of Griffin Land's facilities, such as steel, masonry, asphalt, cement and building products may increase. An increase in the cost of building new facilities could negatively impact Griffin Land's future operating results through increased depreciation expense. An increase in construction costs would also require increased investment in Griffin Land's real estate assets, which may lower the return on investment in new facilities in the real estate business. An increase in energy costs could increase Griffin's building operating expenses and thereby lower Griffin Land's operating results. 14 Investment in a Foreign Company Griffin has an investment in Centaur Media plc, a public company based in the United Kingdom. The ultimate liquidation of that investment and conversion of proceeds into United States currency is subject to future foreign currency exchange rates. Griffin is Subject to Litigation That May Adversely Impact Operating Results Griffin is, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business which could become significant. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that a future adverse development related to existing litigation or any future litigation will not have a material adverse impact on Griffin's business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Concentrated Ownership of Griffin Common Stock by Members of the Cullman and Ernst Families Members of the Cullman and Ernst families (the "Cullman and Ernst Group"), which include David M. Danziger, a director of Griffin, Frederick M. Danziger, Griffin's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael S. Gamzon, Griffin's President and Chief Operating Officer and John J. Kirby, Jr., a director of Griffin who is married to a member of the Cullman family, members of their families and trusts for their benefit, partnerships in which they own substantial interests and charitable foundations on whose boards of directors they sit, owned, directly or indirectly, approximately 46.6% of the outstanding common stock of Griffin as of November 30, 2013. There is an informal understanding that the persons and entities included in the Cullman and Ernst Group will vote together the shares owned by each of them. As a result, the Cullman and Ernst Group may effectively control the determination of Griffin's corporate and management policies and may limit other Griffin stockholders' ability to influence Griffin's corporate and management policies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 