Risk Factors Risks related to our business We are subject to risks related to our international operations that could harm our business and results of operations. With operations worldwide, including in emerging markets, our business and results of operations are subject to various risks inherent in international operations. These risks include: • instability of foreign economies and governments; • risks of war, terrorism, civil disturbance, seizure, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; and • foreign exchange restrictions, sanctions and other laws and policies affecting taxation, trade and investment. We are exposed to these risks in all of our foreign operations to some degree, and our exposure could be material to its financial condition and results of operations in emerging markets where the political and legal environment is less stable. We cannot assure that we will not be subject to material adverse developments with respect to our international operations or that any insurance coverage we have will be adequate to compensate us for any losses arising from such risks. Revenue generating activities in certain foreign countries may require prior United States government approval in the form of an export license and may otherwise be subject to tariffs and import/export restrictions. These laws can change over time and may result in limitations on our ability to compete globally. In addition, non-U.S. persons employed by our separately incorporated non-U.S. entities may conduct business in some foreign jurisdictions that are subject to U.S. trade embargoes and sanctions by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. We have typically generated revenue in these countries through the performance of data processing and reservoir consulting services and the sale of software licenses and software maintenance. We have current and ongoing relationships with customers in these countries. We have procedures in place to conduct these operations in compliance with applicable U.S. laws. However, failure to comply with U.S. laws on equipment and services exports could result in material fines and penalties and/or damage to our reputation. In addition, our presence in these countries could reduce demand for its securities among certain investors. We and certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities also conduct business in countries that experience government corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with all applicable laws and our codes of ethics1, but there is a risk that we, our subsidiaries or affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees or agents may act in violation of applicable laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might materially adversely affect our business and results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to certain risks related to acquisitions, including the merger with Veritas DGC Inc., and these risks may materially adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. In the past hawse have grown by acquisitions, some of which, such as the merger with Veritas DGC Inc. in 2007 or the Waivefield-Inseis acquisition in December 2008, have been quite significant. Such operations, whether completed, pending or likely to be completed in the future, present various financial and management-related risks which can be material, such as integration of the acquired businesses in a cost-effective manner; implementation of a combined business strategy; diversion of CGGVeritas management’s attention; outstanding or unforeseen legal, regulatory, contractual, labor or other issues arising from the acquisitions; additional capital expenditure requirements; retention of customers; combination of different company and management cultures; operations in new geographic markets; the need for more extensive management coordination; and retention, hiring and training of 1 In 2005, we combined our internal control policies in a financial security program based on applicable laws and regulations in force, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the French Financial Security Law (LSF) and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. This program involves all of our operational and financial officers in a process of ongoing improvement to our control procedures. The program also reflects our code of ethics and code of conduct, which are sent to managers and integrated into their training modules. In particular, to improve management of corruption risk and compliance with U.S. and European anti-corruption regulations, an external consultancy was appointed in 2005 to review the our internal rules, particularly for managing sales agents. Each agent was audited and selection and control procedures were strengthened. Best practices training was implemented within the Group in 2006. 7 Table of Contents key personnel. Should any of these risks associated with acquisitions materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. More particularly, the merger with Veritas DGC Inc. involved the integration of two companies, CGG and Veritas, that had previously operated independently and as competitors. Achieving the anticipated long-term benefits of the merger depends in particular on achieving the initially-anticipated cost synergies, the redeployment of both companies’ respective support resources and the combination and integration of their significant global activities. There can be no assurance that these objectives are being achieved or will be achieved successfully. We may need to write down goodwill from our balance sheet. We have been involved in a number of business combinations in the past, leading to the recognition of large amounts of goodwill on our balance sheet. Goodwill totaled €2,055.1 million on our balance sheet as at December 31, 2008. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs) (as described in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008). The recoverable amount of a CGU is estimated at each balance sheet date and is generally determined on the basis of a group-wide estimate of future cash flows expected from the CGU in question. The estimate takes into account the possibility of significant underperformance in cash generation relative to previously-expected results, which may arise, for example, from the underperformance of certain assets or a change in the industry and/or economic environment. On this basis, at each balance sheet date, if we expect that a CGU’s recoverable amount will fall below the amount of goodwill recorded on the balance sheet due to substantial underperformance, we may write down that goodwill in part or in whole. Such a write-down would not in itself have an impact on cash flow, but could have a substantial negative impact on our operating income and net income, and as a result, on our shareholders’ equity and net debt/equity ratio. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for multi-client surveys and for our data library without knowing precisely how much of the data we will be able to sell or when and at what price we will be able to sell the data. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data that we own. By making such investments, we are exposed to the following risks: • We may not fully recover the costs of acquiring and processing the data through future sales. The amounts of these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the timing of these sales is unpredictable, and sales can vary greatly from period to period. Technological or regulatory changes or other developments could also materially adversely affect the value of the data. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location, so a particular survey may be subject to significant amortization even though sales of licenses associated with that survey are weak or non-existent, thus reducing our profits. • The value of our multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in the areas where we acquire multi-client data. • Any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our revenues and expenses are mainly denominated in U.S. dollar and euro, and to a significantly lesser extent, in Canadian dollar, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, British pound and the Norwegian kroner. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues that were invoiced in euros related to contracts that were effectively priced in U.S. dollars, as the U.S. dollar often serves as the reference currency when bidding for contracts to provide geophysical services. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the euro against such other currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, have had in the past and will have in the future a significant effect upon our results of operations, which are reported in euros. The merger with Veritas DGC Inc. very significantly increased both the dollar-denominated revenues and expenses of the Group, as Veritas’s revenues and expenses were historically denominated largely in U.S. dollars. Thus, for financial reporting purposes, depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro will negatively affect our reported results of operations since U.S. dollar-denominated earnings that are converted to euros are stated at a decreased value. Moreover and in addition to the impact of the conversion of the U.S. dollar at a decreased value, since we participate in competitive bids for data acquisition contracts that are denominated in U.S. dollars, the 8 Table of Contents depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro harms its competitive position against companies whose costs and expenses are denominated to a greater extent in U.S. dollars. While we attempt to reduce the risks associated with such exchange rate fluctuations through our hedging policy, we cannot assure that we will maintain our profitability level or that fluctuations in the values of the currencies in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. As of the date of this annual report, our fixed expenses in euros amount to €500 million and as a consequence, an unfavorable variation of U.S.$0.10 in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro would reduce our operating income by approximately U.S.$50 million. The following table shows our exchange rate exposure as of December 31, 2008. USD million Assets 1,590.1 Liabilities (1,339.5 ) Net position before hedging 250.6 Off-balance sheet positions (166.3 ) Net position after hedging 84.3 Our net foreign-exchange exposure is principally to the U.S. dollar and currencies pegged to the U.S. dollar. We seek to reduce our foreign-exchange position by selling our future receivables as soon as they enter the backlog and taking out dollar-denominated loans supported by long-term assets. Although we attempt to reduce the risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot assure that fluctuations in the values of the currencies in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. As of the date of this annual report, a decrease of U.S.$0.10 in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro would reduce our operating income by U.S.$50 million. As a result of our compliance with IAS 12 (Income Taxes), our results of operation are also exposed to the effect of exchange rate variations on our deferred tax amounts when the functional currency for an entity that owns an asset is not the same as the currency used for taxation purposes. This is the case for several Norwegian subsidiaries that own offshore assets (vessels and equipment) for which the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, whereas the taxable currency is the Norwegian kroner. We estimate that as of the date of this annual report, a decrease of NOK 1 in the value of the Norwegian kroner, relative to the U.S. dollar would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately U.S.$7 million. Our working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could result in additional financing requirements that we may not be able to meet on satisfactory terms, or at all. It is difficult for us to predict with certainty our working capital needs. This difficulty is due primarily to working capital requirements related to the marine seismic acquisition business and related to the development and introduction of new lines of geophysical equipment products. For example, under specific circumstances, we may extend the length of payment terms we grant to customers or increase our inventories substantially. We may therefore be subject to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that we may have difficulty financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, due notably to limitations in our debt agreements. Technological changes and new products and services are frequently introduced in the market, and our technology could be rendered obsolete by these introductions, or we may not be able to develop and produce new and enhanced products on a cost-effective and timely basis. Technology changes rapidly in the seismic industry, and new and enhanced products are frequently introduced in the market for our products and services, particularly in our equipment manufacturing and data processing and geosciences sectors. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to develop and produce new and enhanced products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis in accordance with industry demands. While we commit substantial resources to research and development, we may encounter resource constraints or technical or other difficulties that could delay the introduction of new and enhanced products and services in the future. In addition, the continuing development of new products risks making our older products obsolete. New and enhanced products and services, if introduced, may not gain market acceptance and may be materially adversely affected by technological changes or product or service introductions by one of our competitors. 9 Table of Contents The nature of our business subjects us to significant ongoing operating risks for which we may not have adequate insurance or for which we may not be able to procure adequate insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. Our seismic data acquisition activities, particularly in deepwater marine areas, are often conducted under harsh weather and other hazardous operating conditions. These operations are subject to risks of loss to property and injury to personnel from fires, accidental explosions, ice floes and high seas. These types of events could result in loss from business interruption, delay, equipment destruction or other liability. We carry insurance against the destruction of or damage to our seismic equipment and against business interruption for our data processing activities in amounts we consider appropriate in accordance with industry practice. However, our insurance coverage may not be adequate in all circumstances or against all hazards, and we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at commercially reasonable rates or on acceptable terms. We depend on proprietary technology and are exposed to risks associated with the misappropriation or infringement of that technology. Our results of operations depend in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We currently hold or have applied for 165 patents in various countries for products and processes. These patents last between four and twenty years, depending on the date of filing and the protection accorded by each country. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers and potential customers and which limits access to and distribution of our technology. However, actions that we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to deter the misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology. Although we are not currently involved in any material litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or the possible infringement of intellectual property rights of others, such litigation may be brought in the future. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as either the laws of France or the laws of the United States, which may limit our ability to pursue third parties that misappropriate our proprietary technology. Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees may materially adversely affect our future business and operations. Our future results of operations will depend in part upon our ability to retain our existing highly skilled and qualified employees and to attract new employees. A number of our employees are highly skilled scientists and technicians. We compete with other seismic products and services companies and, to a lesser extent, companies in the oil industry for skilled geophysical and seismic personnel, particularly in times when demand for seismic services is relatively high. A limited number of such skilled personnel is available, and demand from other companies may limit our ability to fill its human resources needs. If we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, this could impair our ability to compete in the geophysical services industry and to develop and protect our know-how. Our success also depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of members of our senior management, the loss of whom could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. CGG and Veritas have had losses in the past and there is no assurance of our profitability for the future. CGG recorded net losses in 2004 and 2005 (attributable to shareholders) of €6.4 million and €7.8 million, respectively, although excluding the accounting impact under IFRS of our 7.75% subordinated convertible bonds due 2012 denominated in U.S. dollars, our net income would have been positive. We have ordered two new vessels whose construction may be delayed. We signed an agreement with the Norwegian company Eidesvik Offshore on July 2, 2007 for the construction of two large-capacity seismic vessels, with a total contractual value of approximately U.S.$420 million. The two vessels should be delivered in 2010 and operated under a time charter for a period of 12 years. We have the necessary expertise to successfully carry out the project management, and thus ensure within the specified timeframe that the vessels’ construction meets appropriate quality standards. However, the construction and planning of these vessels remain a long and complex process involving many parties (the shipyard, Eidesvik offshore and others) and subject to many factors. 10 Table of Contents Risks related to our industry: The volume of our business depends on the level of capital expenditures by the oil and gas industry, and reductions in such expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our business. Demand for our products and services has historically been dependent upon the level of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies for exploration, production and development activities. These expenditures are significantly influenced by oil and gas prices and by expectations regarding future oil and gas prices. Oil and gas prices may fluctuate based on relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, expectations regarding future supply of and demand for oil and gas and certain other factors beyond our control. Lower or volatile oil and gas prices tend to limit the demand for seismic services and products. Factors affecting the prices of oil and gas include: • demand for oil and gas; • worldwide political, military and economic conditions, including political developments in the Middle East, economic growth levels and the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; • levels of oil and gas production; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of oil and gas reserves in their territories; and • global weather conditions. We believe that the current crisis in the credit markets, the general slowdown of the global economy, global geopolitical uncertainty and the rapid decrease in the price of oil price to near U.S.$40, far from its record peak in 2008, could cause hydrocarbon companies to suddenly delay or cancel some of their development projects and, as a consequence, reduce their need for seismic services. Given these uncertainties, we cannot predict future demand for seismic services and products. Our backlog includes contracts that can be unilaterally terminated at the client’s option. In accordance with industry practice, contracts for the provision of seismic services typically can be canceled at the sole option of the oil or gas client without payment of significant cancellation costs to the service provider. As a result, even if contracts are not recorded in backlog unless they represent a firm commitment by the client, there can be no assurance that such contracts will be wholly executed by us and generate actual revenue, or even that the total costs already incurred by us in connection with the contract would be covered in full by any cancellation clause. We are subject to intense competition in the markets where we carry out our operations, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels. Most of our contracts are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for the seismic services industry in which we operate. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, crew availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of its segments. We compete with large, international companies as well as smaller, local companies. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors operate more data acquisition crews than we do and have greater financial and other resources. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and gas prices and production levels, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, if geophysical service competitors increase their capacity in the future (or do not reduce capacity if demand decreases), the excess supply in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could thus have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our fleet of vessels may be subject to temporary or permanent measures to reduce capacity as a result of future conditions in the seismic market. Following our acquisition of Wavefield, we operate a fleet of 27 vessels composed of 13 large-capacity vessels with eight to 14 streamers, seven medium-capacity vessels with four to six streamers and seven smaller 3D/2D vessels. We own five 3D vessels and two 3D/2D vessels, hold purchase options on five 3D vessels, and operate the 11 Table of Contents 11 other 3D vessels and four other 3D/2D vessels under time charters running from one to seven years, with a weighted average term of 5 years. These time charters include extension clauses that, if exercised, would extend the weighted average term to 13 years. Taking into account only vessels that we own or over which we have purchase options, the average age of the vessels is 19 years. The oldest vessels in the fleet are 26 and 29 years old, respectively. Future economic conditions in the seismic market could lead us to implement a plan to reduce our marine acquisition capacity, either permanently, by decommissioning the oldest vessels in our fleet, or temporarily, by ceasing to use of certain vessels for a period. This would result in additional industrial adjustment costs that could possibly be offset by improved commercial conditions for the vessels remaining in operation. We have high levels of fixed costs that are incurred regardless of our level of business activity. We have high fixed costs and data acquisition activities that require substantial capital expenditures. As a result, downtime or low productivity due to reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures or other causes could result in significant operating losses. The revenues we derive from land and marine seismic data acquisition vary significantly during the year. Our land and marine seismic data acquisition revenues are partially seasonal in nature. The offshore data acquisition business is, by its nature, exposed to unproductive interim periods due to necessary repairs or transit time from one operational zone to another during which revenue is usually not recognized. Other factors that cause variations from quarter to quarter include the effects of weather conditions in a given operating area, the internal budgeting process of some important clients relative to their exploration expenses, and the time needed to mobilize production means and/or obtain the administrative authorizations necessary to commence data acquisition contracts. Our business is subject to governmental regulation, which may adversely affect our future operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state, foreign and local laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety, labor laws. We need to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with these laws and related permit requirements. Our failure to do so could result in fines or penalties, enforcement actions, claims for personal injury or property damages, or obligations to investigate and/or remediate contamination. Failure to obtain the required permits on a timely basis may also result in crew downtime and operating losses. Moreover, if applicable laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety requirements, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, become more stringent in the future, we could incur capital or operating costs beyond those currently anticipated. The adoption of laws and regulations that directly or indirectly curtail exploration by oil and gas companies could also materially adversely affect our operations by reducing the demand for our geophysical products and services. Risks related to our indebtedness Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a significant amount of debt. As at December 31, 2008, our net financial debt, total assets and shareholders’ equity were €1,029.1 million, €5,634.2 million and €2,960.1 million, respectively. We cannot assure that we will be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges in future years. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. In particular, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. 12 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. The indentures governing our 71/2% senior notes due 2015 and 73/4% senior notes due 2017 (hereinafter the “Senior Notes”) and the agreements governing our credit facilities (including our U.S.$1.14 billion senior credit facilities dated January 12, 2007 (hereinafter the “Senior Facilities”) and our U.S.$200 million French revolving facility dated February 7, 2007 (hereinafter the “French revolving facility”)) contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred shares; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • purchase equity interests or reimburse subordinated debt; • create or incur certain liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; • engage in sale-and-leaseback transactions; and • sell assets or merge or consolidate with another company. Complying with the restrictions contained in some of these covenants requires us to meet certain ratios and tests, notably with respect to consolidated interest coverage, total assets, net debt, equity and net income. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the indentures governing our Senior Notes, Senior Facilities agreement, French revolving facility agreement and other current and future debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these indentures and agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the indentures governing the Senior Notes or in other current or future debt agreements, including the Senior Facilities agreement and the French revolving facility agreement, there could be a default under the terms of these indentures and agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests. In the event of a default under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, it might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our Senior Notes, the Senior Facilities agreement, French revolving facility agreement and our other existing senior indebtedness limit, but do not prohibit, we and our subsidiaries from doing so. As at December 31, 2008, we had drawn U.S.$35.0 million under our existing credit facilities. The Group also benefited at such date from other long-term confirmed and undrawn credit lines amounting to €203.5 million. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks for us could intensify. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures depends in part on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 13 Table of Contents We cannot assure that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that we will realize operating improvements on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure that any refinancing or debt restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold or that, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales would be favorable to us or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during 2008 and 2009 to date, could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs, including our ability to draw on our existing credit facilities or enter into new credit facilities. Banks that are party to our existing credit facilities may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Interest-rate risk as of December 31, 2008. We may have to subscribe part of our borrowings with financial institutions at variable interest rates depending upon the duration of the drawing periods, which can range from one to 60 months. As a result, interest expenses vary in line with movements in short-term interest rates. In particular, our senior credit facilities are subject to interest based on U.S. dollar LIBOR. As a result, our interest expenses may increase significantly if short-term interest rates increase. Each 50 basis point increase in the U.S. dollar LIBOR would increase our interest expense by U.S.$4 million per year. However, this risk is mitigated by the fact that a large proportion of the Group’s debt consists of fixed-rate bonds, along with some fixed-rate finance leases and fixed-rate medium-term bank credit facilities with variable maturities. The following table shows our variable interest rate exposure by maturity as of December 2008. Overnight to 1 year 1 to 5 years More than 5 years (€ million) Financial liabilities(1) 144.0 687.8 655.6 Financial assets(2) 417.6 — — Net position before hedging(3) 273.6 (687.8 ) (655.6 ) Off-balance sheet position — — — Net position after hedging(3) — — — Notes: (1) Excluding bank overdrafts and accrued interest but including employee profit-sharing (2) Invested cash and equivalents (3) Net assets/(liabilities) As of December 31, 2008, the group’s variable-rate assets (net of liabilities) due in less than one year totaled €203.9 million. Other financial risks Risks related to certain of our shareholdings Our investment policy does not authorize investments in the shares of other companies. Any transactions involving the Company’s shares are decided by general management in accordance with the applicable regulations. As at December 31, 2008, we owned 855,350 of our own shares, worth €9,066,710 million. A 10% fall in the price of these treasury shares would therefore reduce shareholders’ equity by €0.9 million, but would have no impact on earnings. Shares in other companies Own and equity mutual fund units shares (€ million) On-balance sheet — 9.1 Off-balance sheet — — Net overall position — — 14 Table of Contents We also hold minority interests in the following listed companies pursuant to our long-term investment strategy: • a 15% stake in Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping (OHM), a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange, recorded on our balance sheet as at December 31, 2008 at its market value of €0.3 million. • a 46.10% stake in Cybernetix, a company listed on Euronext Paris. The closing price of Cybernetix shares on December 30, 2008 was €10.99. A decline in the fair value of this investment equal to €2.6 million was reflected in our shareholders’ equity as at December 31, 2008. Risk relating to the current financial crisis The current situation in the credit and capital markets is likely to have a significant adverse impact on industrial and commercial performance and the solvency of many companies in general, which may affect some of our customers and suppliers. As a result, the current economic climate may have an adverse impact on our business if customers cancel orders or delay or default on payment, or if suppliers fail to provide goods and services as agreed. To deal with these risks as effectively as possible, • we are limiting customer risk by taking a selective approach with our customers (including looking at their solvency) in our services business and by systematically using letters of credit in our equipment business; and • we, and Sercel in particular, have adopted a highly selective policy regarding suppliers, aimed at keeping exposure to any one supplier within prudent limits. 