risk factors, PST® positive, diabetes or smoking. The University of Michigan was solely responsible for the study data analysis. On February 25, 2013, we entered into a Preferred Participation Agreement with RHSC, for itself and on behalf of certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. Pursuant to this agreement, affiliates of RHSC have agreed to reimburse us a fixed price for each PST® genetic test that we process for a customer of affiliates of RHSC. In addition, if during the term of the agreement we offer the PST® test to any other person or party for a lower price, such lower price shall then be applicable to tests processed for a customer of such affiliates of RHSC for the remainder of the term of the agreement. The pricing arrangement is subject to the satisfaction of certain milestones, including that (1) within a specified timeframe, RHSC affiliates must develop and offer dental benefit plans for which a significant portion of such affiliate's clients are eligible that provides for use of the PST® test and reimbursement of the test at the agreed upon price (each such plan, hereinafter referred to as a “Reimbursed Dental Plan”) and (2) prior to a specified date, RHSC affiliates shall have sold policies for Reimbursed Dental Plans for the year beginning January 1, 2014. We have agreed that for a one year period beginning on the date on which RHSC affiliates first offer a Reimbursed Dental Plan, we will make the PST® test available solely to RHSC affiliates and not to any other third party or person. This agreement has a term of three years beginning on February 25, 2013, but may be terminated earlier (1) upon the mutual written agreement of us and RHSC, (2) if either party becomes the subject of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or other similar proceedings, or (3) in the event of an uncured breach of the Agreement by either party. The timing of any revenues that we may receive under this agreement is dependent upon the timing of the offering of Reimbursed Dental Plans, which timing is very uncertain at this time. We do not expect to receive any significant revenues under this agreement until the first quarter of 2014 at the earliest, and the timing of any such revenues may be substantially later. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - The timing and amount of revenues, if any, that we may receive pursuant to our Preferred Participation Agreement with RHSC and its affiliates is uncertain” for a discussion of the risks associated with the timing and amount of any revenues we may receive under this agreement. For certain ethnic populations the frequency of the risk allele is low in the current PST® test. A new revised PST® genetic test is predictive of severe disease and tooth loss for all ethnic populations. On November 1, 2011, we initiated two clinical studies to demonstrate the utility of the test in the ethnic Chinese population. The programs are being conducted in collaboration with Kaohsiung Medical University and Shanghai Stomatological Disease Center. Inherent Health® Brand of Genetic Tests Weight Management Genetic Test On any given day one in three adult women and one out of four adult men in the U.S. are dieting. This is a total of approximately 63 million individuals. The diet market can be broken down into four levels of dieters. The majority of individuals dieting are in do-it-yourself programs (55 million) with the remaining majority distributed through various national mass market retailers such as Jenny Craig, Weight Watchers, Nutrisystems, medifast (approximately 5 million). A small category of programs are led by regional, boutique groups or dieticians (1 to 2 million) such as the Canyon Ranch and finally the remainder those in most need are being medically treated (~200,000) with the majority undergoing bariatric surgery or lapbanding. Several estimates have been published for the total number of weight related services and specialty products being provided in the U.S. Estimated annual expenditures range from $40 to $50 billion in the U.S. with the majority of these costs being paid out of pocket by individuals. 7 Our Weight Management Genetic Test helps take the guesswork out of finding an effective diet and exercise solution by revealing actionable steps to achieve weight goals based on genetics. The test determines whether a low fat, low carbohydrate or balanced diet may be best and whether normal or vigorous exercise is needed to most efficiently lose existing body fat. The test provides new information beyond traditional assessments, so that nutritional intake and fitness routines can be tailored for improved, sustainable results. This test identifies five SNPs in four human genes: fatty acid binding protein 2 (FABP2); adrenergic receptor beta 2 (ADRB2 –two variations); adrenergic receptor beta 3 (ADRB3); and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR- γ). These markers are involved in certain physiological pathways relating to body weight. Certain patterns of markers are associated with differential response to certain diet and exercise regimens. We have conducted a number of studies that demonstrate a gene-diet interaction based on the multi-locus patterns noted above. The first study, completed in 2010, involved subjects who originally participated in Stanford University’s A TO Z weight loss study. Individuals from the A TO Z study were contacted to participate in this retrospective genotype-diet interaction study. In the original study, 311 overweight/obese (body mass index, 27-40 kg/m2), nondiabetic, premenopausal, generally healthy women were randomly assigned for 12 months to either the Atkins-like (very low carbohydrate), Zone-like (low carbohydrate), LEARN-like (balanced), or Ornish-like (low fat) diets for the primary purpose of losing weight. The extensive data collected in that study included dietary intake assessment (three unannounced 24-hour recalls for each time point administered by a dietitian and analyzed using NDS-R, University of Minnesota), anthropometric measures including weight, and related physiological variables, all collected at baseline, two, six, and 12 months. Although Stanford University had retained plasma samples from the original A TO Z study, the Institutional Review Board (IRB) reviewing the project first requested that we recruit and collect DNA under informed consent. Recruitment first began in August 2008 and ended in February 2009. A TO Z study participants eligible for inclusion in the study were those who provided both consent for the current study as well as a sufficient sample of DNA for genotyping (N=138). Those who completed the full 12-month protocol of the original A TO Z study totaled 121. The first set of analysis (N=138) showed a diet-gene interaction as determined by the test’s pattern assignments. As a result of promising preliminary results from the genetic analysis of this subset of subjects who participated in the A TO Z study, our research collaborators at Stanford University received IRB approval in 2011 to extract DNA from retained plasma samples from all subjects who participated in the study. We successfully obtained DNA and genotyped 291 of the 311 subjects. Preliminary analysis conducted solely by Interleukin in March 2012, demonstrated that subjects with three different genetic test patterns had different weight loss responses at 12 months depending on the diets to which they were assigned. The analysis from the larger dataset showed that further improved weight loss could be achieved if certain of the test’s original diet assignments were modified. As a result, in March 2012, we updated our laboratory information management system’s reporting and generated new diet recommendations for each pattern to provide customers the latest information from the new research. Another study was conducted on the Weight Management Genetic Test with MetroWest Medical Center Hospital (MWM) as a prospective, real world setting trial. Thirty-four overweight male & female hospital employees were enrolled in a corporate wellness program. All study participants were counseled on diet and exercise by dietitians and exercise physiologists employed by MWM for the wellness program. Diet guidance included the American Heart Association diet and 500kcal reduction in caloric intake. Fourteen subjects were randomly given the Weight Management Genetic Test and diet guidance based on test results 2 weeks after baseline. Weight measurements and blood samples were taken at baseline, 24, 49, 86 and 100 days. The results of the study showed that those subjects who had taken the test lost statistically significantly more weight during the period than those who had not taken the test. Bone Health Genetic Test Our Bone Health Genetic Test is designed to identify whether an individual is more likely to be susceptible to spine fractures and low bone mineral density associated with osteoporosis. Although it typically starts later in life, early intervention can help prevent osteoporosis. Preventive measures can reduce the risk for bone loss and fractures, which in the case of vertebral fractures leads to a hunched over appearance. The test identifies a SNP in each of three genes involved in processes that affect bone; estrogen receptor alpha (ER1 Xba1), vitamin D receptor (VDR), and interleukin-1 (IL-1). Certain patterns of variations are associated with increased risk of spine fracture and/or low bone mineral density. The test can be used as an aid to making diet, exercise, and other lifestyle choices to maintain and improve bone health. 8 Heart Health Genetic Test Our Heart Health Genetic Test is designed to identify genetic predisposition to excess inflammation, which is a risk factor for heart attack. The genetic analysis identifies individuals that have a lifelong tendency to overproduce certain chemicals in the body that lead to inflammation. Overproduction of these chemicals may start a chain reaction that ultimately may lead to a heart attack. Knowing genetic risk will enable individuals to take specific actions to decrease overall risk. The test identifies three SNPs in two genes involved in inflammation, IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta. Certain IL-1 variations are associated with increased inflammation, which is a risk factor for early heart attack. The test may be used as an aid to making diet, exercise, and other lifestyle choices to reduce inflammation-based risk. Nutritional Needs Genetics Test Our Nutritional Needs Genetics Test is designed to identify DNA variations in genes crucial to B-vitamin metabolism and the ability to manage oxidative stress. Individuals with certain variations in these genes may be at increased risk for ineffective utilization of B-vitamins and potential for cell damage caused by oxidative stress, both of which can in some cases lead to increased risk for certain diseases. The test identifies the presence or absence of human genotypic markers methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and transcobalamin II (TCN2) involved in vitamin B metabolism and markers superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2), glutathione S-transferase 1 deletions (GSTM1), paraoxonase 1 (PON1), X-ray repair cross complementing group 1 (XRCC1) in response to oxidative stress. Certain variations are associated with less efficient B-vitamin metabolism or reduced activity of endogenous anti-oxidant systems. The test may be used to aid individuals in deciding whether to supplement their diet with B vitamins and/or antioxidants. Wellness Select Genetic Test Our Wellness Select Genetic Test allows buyers to purchase any combination of Inherent Health® genetic tests at a discounted price. Genetic Test Pipeline In addition to the genetic tests listed above that we are currently marketing, we are also focusing our genetic test development efforts on the following program: Osteoarthritis Genetic Test Osteoarthritis, or OA, is the most common adult joint disease, increasing in frequency and severity in all aging populations. The estimated U.S. prevalence is 20-40 million patients or five times that of rheumatoid arthritis. The most common forms of OA involve the hand, knee, hip and spine. Total knee replacements number over 250,000 per year and total hip replacements number over 300,000 per year in the United States. OA may involve a single joint or multiple joints in the same individual, with current therapy focused on pain relief, as there is no FDA-approved therapy that arrests or reverses the joint deterioration. The etiology of OA is multifactorial involving both mechanical and biochemical factors. OA progression is associated with accelerated cartilage degradation leading to joint space narrowing, painful joint disruption, and functional compromise. OA disease progression is characterized by a proinflammatory gene expression pattern in cartilage and in joint synovial fluid, with a reactive increase in bone density in the subchondral bone. Large amounts of data provide support for a central role of interleukins in the pathogenesis of OA including animal susceptibility models, models of IL-1-targeted therapy, genetic association studies, and elevated interleukin gene expression in patients with generalized OA. Genetic variations in the interleukin-1 gene cluster have been previously determined to be associated with multiple clinical phenotypes in OA. Our OA program plans to investigate whether interleukin gene variations together with several other inflammatory gene variations is associated with the occurrence of multi-joint OA for the development of a genetic risk assessment test. In November 2009, we published new findings on the genetics of OA in the Annals of Rheumatic Diseases.We reported that a panel of genetic markers was highly predictive of which patients with knee OA were likely to develop severe disease as they age. The studies were done as a collaboration between Interleukin and New York University Hospital for Joint Diseases. In November 2010, we and the Thurston Arthritis Research Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill announced findings from a 1,154-patient longitudinal study to evaluate the role of genetic factors in OA progression. The new data replicated the findings reported previously by us and showed that specific proprietary patterns of IL-1 receptor antagonist gene variations predicted knee OA progression. In addition, we reported that patients with radiographic signs of early knee osteoarthritis were genetically different from those without radiographic signs of the disease and progressed to moderate or severe OA at a much greater frequency. Of those individuals who were completely free of radiographic signs of knee OA at the onset of the study, only 8.5 percent progressed to moderate or severe disease, whereas 33 percent of those with very early radiographic signs of disease exhibited progression. Those with early signs of OA were more likely than those who had no signs of disease to carry certain genetic factors, including variations in both the IL-1 receptor antagonist gene (IL1RA) and the DVWA gene that is involved in collagen formation. The combination of early radiographic signs of disease and carriage of gene variations associated with OA progression appears to identify individuals at increased risk for severe OA. We have filed patent applications on these findings. 9 On September 21, 2010, we and researchers from the Thurston Arthritis Research Center announced findings from a large clinical study to evaluate the role of genetic factors in osteoarthritis progression which showed patients with radiographic evidence of knee osteoarthritis who inherited a specific pattern of genetic variations in the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) gene were almost twice as likely to progress to severe disease as other patients. Results from the study, which followed 1,154 patients for up to 11 years, were presented at the World Congress on Osteoarthritis in Brussels, Belgium. We believe this information may allow pharmaceutical companies that are developing the first disease-modifying OA drugs (DMOADs) to screen patients and include in their clinical trials only those patients who have progressive disease. There is currently no mechanism for selecting high risk patients, and multiple clinical DMOAD studies have failed due to excessive numbers of patients with no progression of disease. The results may be useful for setting the dose of hyaluronic acids in the treatment of osteoarthritis pain. The genetic test could help identify those patients who need increased frequency dosing regimens or higher doses of the compound. This genetic information may also assist the rheumatologist in managing the medical and surgical options of individual patients. Additional studies identified a different set of genetic markers that were predictive of which patients started with knee OA and subsequently developed hand problems. We intend to search for marketing and sales partners to introduce the tests into the medical channel. Laboratory Testing Procedure To conduct a genetic risk assessment test, the end-user collects cells from inside the cheek on a brush and submits it by mail to our laboratory. Samples are processed only with a requisition signed by either a customer’s physician or one provided by Interleukin Genetics. Our clinical laboratory then performs the test using our protocols. Depending on the regulations in the particular state or (in Canada) province in which the customer resides, we provide the test results to the customer and/or designated health care provider. During 2004, we completed the construction of our genetic testing laboratory (for which we obtained CLIA certification in 2005) to process the test samples. The regulatory requirements associated with a clinical laboratory are addressed under the section titled “Government Regulation.” We have upgraded the systems and processes for the laboratory with the addition of high volume analytical equipment. We currently are licensed in the seven states that require a genetic test processing license. Marketing and Distribution Strategy Inherent Health® We market our Inherent Health® brand of genetic tests using our e-commerce website and under contract with Amway and several regional weight management focused organizations. We have developed a complete e-commerce solution for our Inherent Health® brand of genetic tests, www.inherenthealth.com. We have subcontracted with a fulfillment center to distribute tests to customers ordering via our online store. The e-commerce solution has provided a friendly and easy to use method for the purchase of our genetic tests. We are partnered with a number of websites that have established a link to our site in order to distribute tests. We pay these sites commissions for all orders made via a click through from their site to ours. 10 PST® During 2012 we marketed and distributed our PST® test directly to dentists and periodontists via Quest Diagnostic's subsidiary, OralDNA Labs in the U.S. With the PDPS yielding positive results, we executed a Preferred Participation Agreement obtaining reimbursement coverage for the test from RHSC and its affiliates. Based on this agreement we will no longer sell the test through OralDNA Labs. However, the timing of any revenues that we may receive under this agreement is dependent upon the timing of the offering of Reimbursed Dental Plans, which timing is very uncertain at this time. Our current intent is to market our PST® test through Reimbursed Dental Plans sold by RHSC’s affiliates to employer groups for plan years starting in January 2014. However, RHSC affiliates will not begin marketing Reimbursed Dental Plans until positive results of the PDPS are published in a peer review journal. While an article has been submitted to a peer reviewed journal, there is no assurance that the article will be accepted for publication, or, even if accepted, when the article will be published. RHSC has told us that in order for its affiliates to begin marketing Reimbursed Dental Plans for plan years beginning in January 2014, the article must be accepted for publication in a peer review journal by May 31, 2013. Accordingly, we do not expect to receive any significant revenues under this agreement until the first quarter of 2014 at the earliest, and the timing of any such revenues may be substantially later. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors - The timing and amount of revenues, if any, that we may receive pursuant to our Preferred Participation Agreement with RHSC and its affiliates is uncertain” for a discussion of the risks associated with the timing and amount of any revenues we may receive under this agreement. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property is focused on the discoveries that link variations in key inflammation and metabolic genes to various conditions or illnesses. We initially had concentrated our efforts on variations in the genes for the interleukin family of cytokines, because these compounds appear to be one of the strongest control points for the development and severity of inflammation. Our patents also cover genetic variations in the Perilipin family of proteins and others that are involved in fat storage and metabolism. We have granted patents and pending applications directed to single SNPs and SNP patterns in gene clusters as they relate to use for identifying individuals on a rapid path to several medical conditions or for use in guiding the selection of diets, exercise, vitamin needs, preventive care and also therapeutic agents. Groups of SNPs are often inherited together as patterns called haplotypes. We have a U.S. patent issued on haplotypes in an interleukin gene cluster and their biological and clinical significance. We believe these patents are controlling relative to interleukin SNPs and haplotype patterns that would be used for genetic risk assessment tests. Our patents are “use” patents that claim that a SNP, or set of SNPs in unique patterns can be used in a novel way to predict disease development or progression, predict responses to preventive or therapeutic interventions and identify specific actions that improve health outcomes. We currently own rights in 11 issued U.S. patents, that have expiration dates between 2015 and 2027, and have 10 additional U.S. patent applications pending, that are based on novel associations between particular gene sequences and certain metabolic and inflammatory conditions and disorders. The 11 issued U.S. patents relate to genetic tests for obesity, periodontal disease, osteoporosis, coronary artery disease, and other diseases associated with interleukin inflammatory haplotypes. Our newest patent applications relate to the commercial use of SNP panels in the fields of weight management, periodontal disease, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis. If granted, we expect many of these patents are not likely to expire until between 2027 and 2031. Our intellectual property and proprietary technology are subject to numerous risks, which we discuss in “Risk Factors” below in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Our commercial success will depend at least in part on our ability to obtain appropriate patent protection on our therapeutic and diagnostic products and methods and our ability to avoid infringing on the intellectual property of others. We have been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S. patents and patent applications pending. Competition The competition in the field of personalized health is changing. The markets and customer base are not well established. There are a number of companies involved in identifying and commercializing genetic markers. The companies differ in product end points and target customers. There are companies that market individual condition genetic tests for complex diseases to consumers and those that sell only to physicians. There are companies that market testing services for rare monogenic diseases mainly to physicians. There are companies that sell genome scanning services to provide customers (usually the consumer directly) reports on large numbers of SNPs or the person’s entire genome. There are also technology platform companies that sell SNP testing equipment. 11 The key competitive factors affecting the success of any genetic test is its perceived benefit by the user, price (potentially including availability of reimbursement) and the level of market acceptance. In the case of newly introduced products requiring “change of behavior” (such as genetic risk assessment tests), we believe the presence of multiple competitors may accelerate market acceptance and penetration through increasing awareness. Moreover, two different genetic risk assessment tests for the same disease may in fact test or measure different components, and thus, actually be complementary when given in parallel as an overall assessment of risk, rather than being competitive with each other. Furthermore, the primary focus of most companies in the field is performing gene-identification research for pharmaceutical companies for therapeutic purposes, with genetic risk assessment testing being a secondary goal. In contrast, our primary business focus is developing and commercializing genetic risk assessment tests for health risks and forward-integrating these tests with additional products and services. For a discussion of the risks associated with competition, see “Risks Related to Our Business, Our Financial Results and Need for Financing - We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business.” under "Risk Factors" below in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Government Regulation The services that we provide are regulated by federal and state governmental authorities. Failure to comply with the applicable laws and regulations can subject us to civil and criminal penalties, loss of licensure, certification, or accreditation. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable government regulations. We cannot predict what new legislation or regulations governing our operations will be enacted by legislative bodies or promulgated by agencies that regulate its activities, or what changes in interpretations of existing regulations may be adopted. CLIA and Other Laboratory Licensure Our clinical laboratory must hold certain licenses, certifications, and permits to conduct our business. Laboratories that perform testing on human specimens for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease or assessment of health are subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA). CLIA requires such a laboratory to be certified by the federal government and mandates compliance with various operational, personnel, facilities, administration, quality and proficiency testing requirements intended to insure that testing services are accurate, reliable and timely. Standards for testing under CLIA vary based on the level of complexity of the testing performed. Laboratories performing high complexity tests, such as genetic tests, must comply with more stringent requirements than laboratories perfoming moderate or waived testing. As a condition of CLIA certification, our laboratory is subject to survey and inspection every other year, in addition to being subject to additional random inspections. The biennial survey is conducted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, a CMS agent (typically a state agency), or, if the laboratory is accredited, a CMS-approved accreditation organization. CLIA provides that a state may adopt laboratory regulations that are more stringent than those under federal law. In some cases, state licensure programs actually substitute for the federal CLIA program. In other instances, the state’s regulations may be in addition to the CLIA program. In addition, our laboratory holds multiple state licenses to the extent that we accept specimens from one or more of these states, each of which require out-of-state laboratories to obtain licensure. If a laboratory is out of compliance with state laws or regulations governing licensed laboratories, penalties for violation vary from state to state but may include suspension, limitation, revocation or annulment of the license, assessment of financial penalties or fines, or imprisonment. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable licensing laws and regulations. We may become aware from time to time of other states that require out-of-state laboratories to obtain licensure to accept specimens from the state, and other states may impose such requirements in the future. If we identify any other state with such requirements, or if we are contacted by any other state advising us of such requirements, we intend to follow all instructions from the state regulators regarding compliance with such requirements. Laboratories must renew certification every two years, which typically includes an inspection of the laboratory. Our laboratory was most recently inspected in October 2011 and no deficiencies or issues were noted and our CLIA license was renewed. 12 Food and Drug Administration Although the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has consistently claimed that it has the authority to regulate laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs, that are validated by the developing laboratory and performed only by that laboratory, it has generally exercised enforcement discretion in not otherwise regulating most tests developed and performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories. However, for the past few years, the FDA indicated that it was reviewing the regulatory requirements that will apply to LDTs. In July 2010, FDA held a public meeting in which FDA officials including those from the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Products (OIVD), within the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) announced their intention to develop a regulatory framework for LDTs that would be based on the risks posed by such tests. In particular, FDA officials stated that laboratory developed tests offered directly to consumers would no longer be subject to enforcement discretion. Concomitant with that meeting, FDA sent letters to more than a dozen companies offering direct-to-consumer, or DTC, genetic tests, including us, stating that their tests appeared to be subject to regulation as medical devices and requesting information on how the companies planned to come into compliance with FDA requirements. The FDA letter inquired about our Inherent Health brand of DTC genetic tests and stated that these tests appeared to meet the definition of a “device” under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic (FD&C) Act. The letter requested that the Company provide FDA with the clearance or approval number for the tests or with the basis for determination that the tests do not require FDA clearance or approval. In the letter, FDA offered to meet with us, “to discuss whether there are tests you are promoting that do not require review by FDA and what information you would need to submit in order for your products to be legally marketed.” On November 1, 2010, we met with the director and staff members of the OIVD to present information on our tests. At FDA’s request, we submitted a plan in December 2010 and requested a follow-up meeting to obtain feedback on the plan from OIVD personnel. We have had no further communications regarding our products with the FDA. We have received no communication from the FDA relative to our periodontal disease test which is only available through licensed health practitioners. In March 2011, FDA convened an expert advisory panel to discuss and make recommendations on scientific issues concerning DTC genetic tests that make medical claims. The panel expressed a variety of concerns regarding DTC genetic testing and recommended that certain tests not be permitted to be sold DTC. We submitted a position paper to the FDA in advance of the meeting and presented testimony to the panel at a public meeting on March 8, 2011.After that meeting, the OIVD director publically stated that FDA would likely take a case-by-case approach with respect to which types of genetic tests may be offered DTC. He also stated that OIVD planned to issue three guidance documents addressing oversight of laboratory developed tests. However, he did not provide a timeframe for OIVD’s release of these documents.In March 2012, an FDA spokesperson stated that FDA’s plan to adjust its enforcement discretion policy for LDT’s is currently under “administrative review.” As of now, the FDA has not issued the promised additional guidance, but we expect that is will do so in the future. Before any draft or final guidance is issued, however, the FDA will be required, for the next five years, to give at least sixty days prior notice to Congress in accordance with the recently enacted Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA. The notice must include anticipated details of the action. HIPAA and Other Privacy Laws The Administrative Simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) established for the first time comprehensive federal protection for the privacy and security of health information. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, significantly expanded the scope of HIPAA and increased penalties for violating HIPAA. The HIPAA standards apply to three types of organizations (“Covered Entities”): health plans, health care clearing houses, and health care providers who conduct certain health care transactions electronically. They also apply to vendors of Covered Entities called “Business Associates” that access protected health information to provide services to or perform functions on behalf of Covered Entities. Covered Entities and Business Associates must have in place administrative, physical and technical standards to guard against the misuse of individually identifiable health information. We are not currently a Covered Entity subject to the HIPAA privacy and security standard. It is possible that in the future we will become a Covered Entity (for example if any of the tests that we perform become reimbursable by insurers). Regardless of our own Covered Entity status, HIPAA may apply to our customers, such as health care providers and health plans. Even though we are not directly subject to HIPAA, we could be subject to penalties, lawsuits and experience other adverse consequences if we wrongfully acquire protected health information, aid and abet a HIPAA violation by a customer or if we obtain or disclose protected health information maintained by a Covered Entity without authorization in violation of HIPAA. In addition, some lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, have been pursued at the state level against both covered entities and entities that are not directly subject to HIPAA for breach of confidentiality and security violations. 13 Our activities must also comply with other applicable privacy laws, including state data security laws that apply to personal data of our employees as well as our customers. “Personal data” includes information such as name coupled with social security number, state issued identification number, or financial account number. State data security laws impose specific security measures for the protection of personal data and require notification to affected individuals and government authorities in the event of breach. Non compliance may result in government investigations, fines and significant negative publicity for our company. Many states protect health information with confidentiality laws that are more stringent than HIPAA and that are not preempted by HIPAA. Most states protect certain categories of sensitive health information, such as infectious disease status or behavioral health history. Genetic information, including genetic test results, is often a protected category of health information. We must comply with all of these state-imposed laws. There are also international privacy laws, such as the European Data Directive, that impose restrictions on the access, use, and disclosure of health information and personal data across national lines. In addition to health care privacy and data security laws, many states have adopted laws governing genetic testing and the use and disclosure of genetic test results. These laws typically require a specific form of written consent in advance of genetic testing and require special protections for test results. Given the complexity of genetic testing and the variety of techniques available for evaluating similar clinical conditions, these laws can be difficult to apply, making compliance more complex and potentially delaying implementation of a testing program when parties disagree on interpretation. Our failure to comply with these laws may result in fines, government enforcement, privacy litigation and adverse publicity for our company. If we become subject to HIPAA or other state or federal privacy and security laws, we will have to establish and maintain an active compliance program. We will subject to audit and investigation and may also be audited in connection with a complaint. We would also be subject to prosecution and/or administrative enforcement and increased civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance, including a new, four-tiered system of monetary penalties adopted under HITECH. We would also subject to enforcement by state attorneys general who were given authority to enforce HIPAA under HITECH. We are subject to laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment, the health and safety of employees and the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. For example, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, has established extensive requirements relating specifically to workplace safety for healthcare employers in the U.S. This includes requirements to develop and implement multi-faceted programs to protect workers from exposure to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B and C, including preventing or minimizing any exposure through needle stick injuries. For purposes of transportation, some biological materials and laboratory supplies are classified as hazardous materials and are subject to regulation by one or more of the following agencies: the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Public Health Service, the United States Postal Service and the International Air Transport Association. We generally use third-party vendors to dispose of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and radioactive materials and contractually require them to comply with applicable laws and regulations. GINA Legislation In 2008, the Congress passed and the President signed into law, the Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act or GINA. GINA prohibits certain entities from discriminating using genetic information, which includes information from genetic tests, genetic tests of family members and family medical history. It also includes information about an individual’s or family member’s request for or receipt of genetic services. This law generally prohibits health insurers or health benefit plans from: ·increasing the group premium or contribution amounts (such as co-payments) based on genetic information; ·requesting or requiring an individual or family member to undergo a genetic test; or ·requesting, requiring or purchasing genetic information prior to or in connection with enrollment, or at any time for underwriting purposes. 14 The law also prohibits employers and certain other entities, including employment agencies, from using genetic information in employment decision-making and from requesting, requiring, or purchasing genetic information. It also strictly limits such entities from disclosing genetic information. In October 2009, the Department of Health and Human Services issued a proposed rule to modify the HIPAA Privacy Rule to implement Title I of GINA. Final regulations were adopted in January, 2013.Among other things, this rule revises the definition of health information under HIPAA to include genetic information. GINA applies to some of our customers and to us as an employer. We could be subject to penalties, lawsuits or experience other adverse consequences if our operations violate GINA or cause another entity to violate GINA. Federal Trade Commission The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has jurisdiction over the advertisements of many types of products and prohibits unfair or deceptive trade practices. Advertising for our tests, including statements made on our website, is subject to FTC requirements. In recent years, the FTC instituted enforcement actions against several dietary supplement companies for false and misleading marketing practices and advertising of certain products, including those intended for weight loss. These enforcement actions have resulted in consent decrees and monetary payments by the companies involved. Although the FTC has never threatened an enforcement action against us for the advertising of our products, there can be no assurance that the FTC will not question the advertising for our products in the future. Other Information Our executive offices are located at 135 Beaver Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02452, and our telephone number is (781) 398-0700. We were incorporated in Texas in 1986 and we re-incorporated in Delaware in March 2000. We maintain websites at www.ilgenetics.com and www.inherenthealth.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports are available to you free of charge through the Investor Relations Section of www.ilgenetics.com as soon as practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We have included our website addresses only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend them to be active links to our websites. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business, Our Financial Results and Need for Financing If we fail to obtain additional capital by the end of April 2013, then we may have to end our operations and seek protection under bankruptcy laws. We expect that our current and anticipated financial resources, including the full amount drawn under our credit facility with Pyxis Innovations, Inc., an affiliate of our majority stockholder, Alticor, Inc., will be adequate to maintain our current and planned operations only through April 2013. We need significant additional capital to fund our continued operations, including for the commercial launch of our PST® genetic test, continued research and development efforts, obtaining and protecting patents and administrative expenses. We have retained a financial advisor and are actively seeking additional funding, however, based on current economic conditions, additional financing may not be available, or, if available, it may not be available on favorable terms. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our existing shareholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing shareholders will result. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, tests or products in development. If we cannot obtain additional funding on acceptable terms, we may have to discontinue operations and seek protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws. 15 The timing and amount of revenues, if any, that we may receive pursuant to our Preferred Participation Agreement with RHSC and its affiliates is uncertain. Although we have entered into a Preferred Participation Agreement with RHSC, for itself and on behalf of certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries, pursuant to which RHSC affiliates are expected to develop and offer dental benefit plans that provide for use of the PST® test and reimbursement of the test at an agreed upon price (each such plan, hereinafter referred to as a “Reimbursed Dental Plan”), the timing of any revenues that we may receive under this agreement is dependent upon the timing of the offering of such Reimbursed Dental Plans, which timing is very uncertain at this time. While our current intent is to market our PST® test through Reimbursed Dental Plans offered and sold by RHSC’s affiliates to employer groups for plan years starting in January 2014, RHSC affiliates will not begin marketing Reimbursed Dental Plans until positive results of the PDPS are published in a peer review journal. While an article has been submitted to a peer reviewed journal, there is no assurance that the article will be accepted for publication, or, even if accepted, when the article will be published. RHSC has told us that in order for its affiliates to begin marketing Reimbursed Dental Plans for plan years beginning in January 2014, the article must be accepted for publication in a peer review journal by May 31, 2013. Accordingly, the earliest that we may receive any significant revenues under this agreement is in the first quarter of 2014, and the timing of any such revenues may be substantially later. The failure to begin receiving significant revenues under this agreement in 2014 would require us to obtain additional funding and would have a material adverse affect on our business. There is substantial doubt concerning our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We expect to incur further losses in the development of our business and have been dependent on funding operations through the issuance of convertible debt and the sale of equity securities. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans include continuing to finance operations through the private or public placement of debt and/or equity securities, increasing revenue through new arrangements with commercial distribution partners and the reduction of expenditures. However, no assurance can be given at this time as to whether we will be able to achieve these objectives. The financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Although we have retained a financial advisor and have had discussions with potential investors concerning funding, we can provide no assurance that we will receive additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and expect these losses to continue for some time. We incurred losses from continuing operations of $5.2 million in 2011 and $5.1 million in 2012. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $107.7 million. Our losses result primarily from research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets. Although we generate revenues from sales of our genetic risk assessment tests, this may not be sufficient to result in net income in the foreseeable future. We will need to generate significant revenue to continue our research and development programs and achieve profitability. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will achieve profitability. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic conditions and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption including, among other things, extreme volatility in prices of publicly traded securities, severely diminished liquidity, severely restricted credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. We believe the current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our operations. Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions may cause consumers to reign in their spending generally, the impact of which may be that they stop or delay their purchases of our genetic tests and consumer products. If these circumstances persist or continue to worsen, our future operating results could be adversely affected, particularly relative to our current expectations. We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business. The field of personalized health is highly competitive. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, consumer products companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Furthermore, many of these competitors are more experienced than we are in discovering, commercializing and marketing products. These greater resources may allow our competitors to discover important genes or genetic markers and more quickly and effectively develop and commercialize genetic tests than we or our partners are able to do. If we are not able to successfully market genetic tests, either alone or through collaborations such as our Preferred Participation Agreement with RHSc and its affiliates, our business will be materially harmed. We expect competition to intensify in our industry as technical advances are made and become more widely known. 16 The market for personalized health generally and genetic risk assessment tests in particular is unproven. The markets and customer base in the field of personalized health are not well established. Adoption of technologies in this emerging field requires substantial market development and there can be no assurance that channels for marketing our products can or will be successfully developed by us or others. As a result, there can be no assurance that our products will be successfully commercialized or that they can be sold at sufficient volumes to make them profitable. If our potential customers do not accept our products, or take a longer time to accept them than we anticipate, it will reduce our anticipated sales and materially harm our business. The market for genetic risk assessment tests, as part of the field of personalized health, is at an early stage of development and may not continue to grow. The scientific community, including us, has only a limited understanding of the role of genes in predicting disease. The success of our genetic risk assessment tests will depend upon their acceptance as being useful and cost-effective to the individuals who purchase these products, the physicians and other members of the medical community who recommend or prescribe them, as well as third-party payers, such as insurance companies and the government. We can only achieve broad market acceptance with substantial education about the benefits and limitations of genetic risk assessment tests while providing the tests at a fair cost. For example, it may be difficult to convince the dental community and dental patients that one cleaning per year is sufficient for Low Risk patients, and we expect to expend significant funds and resources to educate dentists and patients with respect to the benefits of our PST® test. Furthermore, while positive media attention resulting from new scientific studies or announcements can spur rapid growth in individual segments of the market, and also impact individual brands, news that challenges individual segments or products can have a negative impact on the industry overall as well as on sales of the challenged segments or products. The marketplace may never accept our products, and we may never be able to successfully commercialize our products, including the PST® test. Ethical, legal and social issues related to genetic testing may reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised concerns regarding the appropriate utilization and the confidentiality of information provided by genetic testing. Genetic tests for assessing a person’s likelihood of developing a chronic disease have focused public attention on the need to protect the privacy of genetic information. For example, concerns have been expressed that insurance carriers and employers may use these tests to discriminate on the basis of genetic information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities prohibiting genetic testing or calling for limits on or regulating the use of genetic testing, particularly for diseases for which there is no known cure. Any of these scenarios could decrease demand for our products. Technological changes may cause our tests to become obsolete. We have to date focused our efforts on genetic tests based on a small number of candidate genes. It is now possible to use array technology to conduct whole genome association studies for risk assessment, which may make our technologies obsolete. In order to develop customers and markets for our genetic risk assessment tests, we may be required to invest substantial additional capital and other resources. We have limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic tests on our own and will continue to depend substantially on third parties to commercialize our tests. We have very limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic risk assessment tests on our own. In June 2009, we announced the launch of our new Inherent Health® brand of genetic tests. On October 26, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Amway Global, an affiliate of Alticor, pursuant to which it sells our Inherent Health® brand of genetics tests through its e-commerce Web site via a hyperlink to our e-commerce site. In 2012 and 2011, revenues from this agreement accounted for 65% and 66% of our revenues, respectively. During 2012 we marketed and distributed our PST® test directly to dentists and periodontists via Quest Diagnostic's subsidiary, OralDNA Labs in the U.S. With the PDPS yielding positive results, we executed a Preferred Participation Agreement obtaining reimbursement coverage for the PST® test from RHSC and its affiliates. Based on this agreement we will no longer sell the test through OralDNA Labs, and we are dependent on the timing of the offering of Reimbursed Dental Plans by RHSC affiliates, which timing is very uncertain at this time, and the ability of RHSC affiliates to successfully commercialize such Reimbursed Dental Plans. In addition, we have started to market and sell our genetic tests through other health care and professional channels, and we may attempt to negotiate marketing and distribution agreements with third parties, although there can be no assurances we will be able to do so. We have, to date, had very limited success in marketing and selling our genetic tests, and we can provide no assurance that our current or planned commercialization efforts will be successful. 17 If we are unsuccessful in establishing additional strategic alliances, our ability to develop and market products and services may be damaged. Entering into additional strategic alliances for the development and commercialization of products and services based on our discoveries is an important element of our business strategy. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. If we fail to maintain our existing alliances or to establish additional strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements, then our ability to develop and market products and services will be damaged. In addition, the terms of any future strategic alliances may be unfavorable to us or these strategic alliances may be unsuccessful. Because our products are based on emerging science, if we make changes to our tests based on new scientific findings, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our product liability insurance coverage. Our genetic test products are based on emerging science, and we continue to conduct studies to further enhance the usefulness and scientific credibility of our products. If we make changes to our tests based on new data, it could harm our credibility, decrease market acceptance of our products or expose us to liability claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but it is often difficult to obtain, is expensive and may not be available in the future on economically acceptable terms. In addition, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. We may become subject to product liability claims that, even if they are without merit, could result in significant legal defense costs to us. If we are held liable for claims for which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, those claims could materially damage our business and our financial condition. Any product liability claim against us or resulting recall of our products could create significant negative publicity. Our dependence on key executives and scientists could adversely impact the development and management of our business. Our success depends on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key employees, it could damage our development programs and our business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled managerial and scientific personnel. The pool of personnel with the skill that we require is limited. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense. We compete with numerous pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, as well as universities and non-profit research organizations in the highly competitive Boston, Massachusetts business area. Our current senior management team is employed by us under agreements that may be terminated by them for any reason upon adequate notice. There can be no assurances, therefore, that we will be able to retain our senior executives or replace them, if necessary. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. If Pyxis or Delta Dental of Michigan or any of their respective affiliates enters a business in competition with ours, certain of our directors might have a conflict of interest. We have entered into agreements with our stockholders, Pyxis and Delta Dental of Michigan (collectively, with their respective affiliates, the “Interested Parties”), allocating corporate opportunities as permitted under Section 122(17) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These agreements, regulate and define the conduct of certain of our affairs as they may involve the Interested Parties, and our powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of our officers and directors in connection with corporate opportunities. Except under certain circumstances, the Interested Parties have the right to engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business or have an interest in the same classes or categories of corporate opportunities as we do. If any Interested Parties or one of our directors appointed by an Interested Party acquire knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both the Interested Party and us, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Interested Party will not have a duty to inform us about the corporate opportunity. In addition, the Interested Party will not be liable to us or to other stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty as a stockholder of ours for not informing us of the corporate opportunity, keeping it for its own account, or referring it to another person. Additionally, except under limited circumstances, if an officer or employee of an Interested Party who is also one of our directors is offered a corporate opportunity, such opportunity shall not belong to us. In addition, we agreed that such director will have satisfied his duties to us and not be liable to us or to you in connection with such opportunity. 18 We may be prohibited from fully using our net operating loss carryforwards, which could affect our financial performance. As a result of the losses incurred since inception, we have not recorded a federal income tax provision and have recorded a valuation allowance against all future tax benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2012, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $84.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively, for federal income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2032. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had gross NOL and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $8.1 million and $.9 million for state income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2032. Our ability to use these net operating loss and credit carryforwards is subject to restrictions contained in the Internal Revenue Code which provide for limitations on our utilization of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards following a greater than 50% ownership change during the prescribed testing period. We have experienced three such ownership changes in March 2003, June 1999 and June 2012. As a result, our net operating loss carryforwards that relate to periods prior these dates are limited in utilization. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of the carryforwards prior to utilization. In addition, in order to realize the future tax benefits of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, we must generate taxable income, of which there is no assurance. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to obtain patent protection for our products and preserve our trade secrets, then competitors may develop competing products and services, which will likely decrease our sales and market share. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain patent protection in the United States and in other countries for our products and services. In addition, our success will also depend upon our ability to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We own rights to 11 issued U.S. patents and have a number of additional U.S. patent applications pending. We have also been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S. patents and patent applications pending. Our patent positions, and those of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize products and services depends on our ability to: ·obtain patents; ·obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others; ·prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and ·protect trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may never afford meaningful protection for our technology or products or provide us with a competitive advantage. Further, others may develop competing products, which avoid legally infringing upon, or conflicting with, our patents. There is no assurance that another company will not replicate one or more of our products, and this may harm our ability to do business. In addition, competitors may challenge any patents issued to us, and these patents may subsequently be narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. 19 From time to time, the U.S. Supreme Court, other federal courts, the U.S. Congress or the USPTO may change the standards of patentability and any such changes could have a negative impact on our business. There have been several cases involving “gene patents” and diagnostic claims that have been considered by the U.S. Supreme Court. A suit brought by multiple plaintiffs, including the American Civil Liberties Union, or ACLU, against Myriad Genetics, or Myriad, and the USPTO, could impact biotechnology and diagnostic patents. That case involves certain of Myriad’s U.S. patents related to the breast cancer susceptibility genes BRCA1 and BRCA2. The Federal Circuit issued a written decision on July 29, 2011 that reversed the decision of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York that Myriad’s composition claims to “isolated” DNA molecules cover unpatentable subject matter. The Federal Circuit court instead held that the breast cancer genes are patentable subject matter. Subsequently, on March 20, 2012, the Supreme Court issued a decision in Mayo Collaborative v. Prometheus Laboratories, or Prometheus, a case involving patent claims directed to optimizing the amount of drug administered to a specific patient. According to that decision, Prometheus’ claims failed to add enough inventive content to the underlying correlations to allow the processes they describe to qualify as patent-eligible processes that apply natural laws. The Supreme Court subsequently granted certiorari in the Myriad case, vacated the judgment, and remanded the case back to the Federal Circuit for further consideration in light of their decision in the Prometheus case. The Federal Circuit heard oral arguments on July 20, 2012, and issued a decision on August 16, 2012. The Federal Circuit reaffirmed its earlier decision and held that composition of matter claims directed to isolated nucleic acids are patent-eligible subject matter, but that method claims consisting of only abstract mental processes are not patent-eligible. On September 25, 2012, the ACLU filed a petition for a writ of certiorari asking the Supreme Court to review the Federal Circuit’s decision. On November 30, 2012, the Supreme Court granted the petition and agreed to review the case. Many companies, have submitted amicus briefs, or friend of the court briefs, in the case. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear oral argument on April 15, 2013. A decision by the Supreme Court is expected by the end of June 2013. There can be no assurance that the Supreme Court’s decision in the Myriad case will not have a negative impact gene or diagnostic patents generally or the ability of biotechnology and diagnostic companies to obtain or enforce their patents in the future. Any such negative decision by the Supreme Court could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s existing patent portfolio and the Company’s ability to protect and enforce its intellectual property in the future. On July 3, 2012, the USPTO issued a memorandum to patent examiners providing guidelines for examining process claims for patent eligibility in view of the Supreme Court decision in Prometheus. The guidance indicates that claims directed to a law of nature, a natural phenomenon, or an abstract idea that do not meet the eligibility requirements should be rejected as non-statutory subject matter. We cannot assure you that our patent portfolio will not be negatively impacted by the decision described above, rulings in other cases or changes in guidance or procedures issued by the USPTO. Congress directed the USPTO to study effective ways to provide independent, confirming genetic diagnostic test activity where gene patents and exclusive licensing for primary genetic diagnostic tests exist. This study will examine the impact that independent second opinion testing has on providing medical care to patients; the effect that providing independent second opinion genetic diagnostic testing would have on the existing patent and license holders of an exclusive genetic test; the impact of current practices on testing results and performance; and the role of insurance coverage on the provision of genetic diagnostic tests. The USPTO was directed to report the findings of the study to Congress and provide recommendations for establishing the availability of independent confirming genetic diagnostic test activity by June 16, 2012. On August 28, 2012, the Department of Commerce sent a letter to the House and Senate Judiciary Committee leadership updating them on the status of the genetic testing report. The letter stated in part: “Given the complexity and diversity of the opinions, comments, and suggestions provided by interested parties, and the important policy considerations involved, we believe that further review, discussion, and analysis are required before a final report can be submitted to Congress.” The USPTO issued a Request for Comments and Notice of Public Hearing on Genetic Diagnostic Testing on January 25, 2012, and held additional public hearings in February and March 2013. It is unclear whether the results of this study will be acted upon by the USPTO or result in Congressional efforts to change the law or process in a manner that could negatively impact our present or future patent portfolio. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, with confidentiality agreements. The third parties we contract with may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. If they do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Our competitors may discover or independently develop our trade secrets. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our costs or prevent us from developing or marketing our products or services. We may not have rights under patents or patent applications that are related to our current or proposed products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, to develop or sell any proposed products or services with patent rights controlled by third parties, our collaborators or ourselves may seek, or may be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents and patent applications. If this occurs, we may have to pay license fees, royalties or both, to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, our collaborators or we may be prohibited from developing or selling our products or services. 20 Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Tests Any tests that may be developed by us may be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. Our currently marketed tests were launched as laboratory developed tests, or LDTs, performed in our CLIA-certified clinical laboratory operating in Waltham, Massachusetts. We expect that our future LDTs will be launched as well at our CLIA-certified laboratory. Although FDA has historically exercised enforcement discretion with respect to LDTs, meaning that such tests generally have not been subject to FDA regulatory requirements for in vitro diagnostic devices, the Agency’s regulatory approach to LDTs is in a period of transition. FDA officials have stated that direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetic tests that make medical claims will no longer be subject to enforcement discretion. FDA’s letter to the Company in July 2010 is consistent with this change in Agency position. However, FDA has not stated what specific requirements will apply to LDTs sold DTC and we have not received any feedback from FDA regarding the plan we submitted in January 2011. FDA convened an advisory panel in March 2011 to make recommendations regarding oversight of DTC genetic tests. Following the meeting, the director of OIVD stated that FDA would likely need to take a case-by-case approach with respect to which types of genetic tests could be offered by DTC. We are uncertain as to what, if any, regulatory requirements may apply to our tests in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including pre-market review or approval, will not be required in the future, or that our tests will be permitted to be offered DTC. If FDA requires us to make a premarket submission, such as a 510k premarket notification or a premarket approval application, either as a condition of continuing to market our tests or bringing future tests to market, our business could be negatively impacted. Requiring prior FDA clearance or approval could be lengthy, costly and burdensome. In addition, depending upon FDA’s response to a submission we may be required to stop selling our tests, revise our tests significantly, or delay introduction of new tests. Additionally, if our tests become subject to more active regulation as medical devices by FDA, we would be required to comply with other regulatory requirements, including facility registration, device listing, adverse event reporting, and good manufacturing practices. We would also be subject to penalties, including seizure and injunction, for noncompliance with FDA requirements. Complying with FDA requirements could add additional costs and burdens to our operations. We are subject to government regulation which may significantly increase our costs and delay introduction of our products. We are subject to a variety of federal and state legal requirements including CLIA, the FD&C Act, state clinical laboratory licensure laws and implementing regulations. The growth of our business may increase the potential of being found in violation of these laws. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is further increased by the fact that the technologies at issue are new and the applicability of statutory and regulatory provisions to these technologies has not been fully developed, implemented, or subjected to judicial review, and the statutory and regulatory provisions themselves are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us, or any business partners, for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we or they successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If their or our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, they or we may be subject to any applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines, and they or we could be required to curtail or cease operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business and our financial results. If we do not comply with governmental regulations applicable to our CLIA-certified laboratory, we may not be able to continue our operations. The establishment and operation of our laboratory is subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States. The laboratory holds a CLIA certificate of compliance and is licensed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and other states as required, which enables us to provide testing services to residents of most other states. Failure to comply with state regulations or changes in state regulatory schemes, could result in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of the operations of our laboratory and could have a material adverse effect on our business. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on human specimens for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. To renew CLIA certification, laboratories are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make unannounced inspections of these laboratories. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or our state licenses, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, we would no longer be able to continue our testing operations which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Tests based on our technology may require clinical trial testing, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. If the FDA decides to require pre-market clearance or approval of LDT’s, we may be required to perform clinical trials prior to submitting a marketing application. If we are required to conduct clinical trials, whether using prospectively acquired tissue samples or archival samples, delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly increase development costs and delay commercialization. The commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population and the nature of the disease or condition being studied. Future therapeutic collaborators, if any, may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of any therapeutic product that they may develop. If, in the future, we enter into any collaborations relating to the use of our technology in the development of therapeutic products, any therapeutic products that our collaborators may develop will be subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new therapeutic product can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals for therapeutic products is unpredictable but typically exceeds several years. It is possible that none of the therapeutic products our collaborators may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a therapeutic product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the therapeutic product. Any therapeutic product that our collaborators may develop will also be subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, approval by the FDA of a therapeutic product does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States or vice versa. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our tests and may harm our reputation. If we in the future fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the ability to successfully develop, market and sell our tests and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of such tests or products by the market. These enforcement actions could include: ·warning letters; ·recalls, public notification or medical device safety alerts; ·restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing such tests or products; ·restrictions on importation of such tests or products; ·suspension of review or refusal to approve new or pending applications; ·withdrawal of product approvals; ·product seizures; ·injunctions; ·civil penalties, including monetary fines; and ·criminal penalties. 22 If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous and chemicals materials, and we maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities. We believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our facilities comply with the relevant local and Federal guidelines. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We were delisted from the NYSE Amex in 2010 resulting in a more limited market for our common stock. On December 23, 2008, we were notified of our failure to comply with the NYSE Amex, hereinafter referred to as the Exchange, continued listing standards under section 1003 of the Exchange’s Company Guide. As a result, our common stock was suspended from the Exchange effective with the open of business on August 16, 2010 and began trading on the OTCQB™ under the symbol ILIU. The delisting by the Exchange could hurt our investors by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Additionally, the delisting could negatively affect us by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to raise capital. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. In the two years ended December 31, 2012, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $0.17 to a high of $0.55. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant volatility. The volatility of stocks for companies in our industry often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: ·the timing and commercial success of the launch of Reimbursed Dental Plans our PST® test; ·demand for and acceptance of our products; ·our ability to develop new relationships and maintain and enhance existing relationships with strategic partners; ·regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; ·developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; ·introduction of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; ·failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations, or the issuance of equity securities at prices below fair market price; ·changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; ·litigation; ·future sales of our common stock; ·general market conditions; ·economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; ·period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and ·overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. 23 These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Our Preferred Stock has certain rights that are senior to common stockholder rights and this may reduce the value of our common stock. As of March 15, 2013, there were 5,000,000 shares of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series A-1 Preferred Stock”) outstanding, all of which were held by Pyxis, and 500,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock” and, together with the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, the “Preferred Stock”) outstanding, all of which were held by Delta Dental of Michigan. Each share of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder into such number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of common stock as is determined by dividing the applicable original purchase price ($1.80 per share for the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and $6.00 per share for the Series B Preferred Stock) by the Series A-1 Conversion Price or the Series B Conversion Price, as applicable. The “Series A-1 Conversion Price” is $0.3196 and the “Series B Conversion Price” is $0.2745, each as subject to adjustment pursuant to certain antidilution provisions set forth in the Certificate of Designation. The Series A-1 Preferred Stock is currently convertible into 28,160,200 shares of our common stock, and the Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into 10,928,961 shares of our common stock. The holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends at the rate of 8% of the applicable original purchase price per year. Such dividends shall be payable only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors and are non-cumulative. If we declare a distribution, with certain exceptions, payable in securities of other persons, evidences of indebtedness issued by us or other persons, assets (excluding cash dividends) or options or rights to purchase any such securities or evidences of indebtedness, then, in each such case the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to a proportionate share of any such distribution as though the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock were the holders of the number of shares of our common stock into which their respective shares are convertible as of the record date fixed for the determination of the holders of our common stock entitled to receive such distribution. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on a pari passu basis, prior and in preference to any distribution of any of our assets or surplus funds to the holders of our common stock, the amount of two times the applicable original purchase price plus all declared but unpaid dividends on such share for each share of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock then held by them. If upon the occurrence of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the company, the assets and funds thus distributed among the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock are insufficient to permit the payment to such holders of the full preferential amount, then the entire assets and funds shall be distributed ratably among the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock in proportion to the preferential amount each such holder is otherwise entitled to receive. After receiving this amount, the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock shall participate on an as-converted basis with the holders of common stock in any of our remaining assets. For all matters, including voting on matters where the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock have a separate vote as a single class, each holder of shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock into which such shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock, as the case may be, could be converted and shall have voting rights and powers equal to the voting rights and powers of the common stock (except as otherwise expressly provided in the Certificate of Designation or as required by law, voting together with the common stock as a single class on an as-converted basis). In addition, so long as at least forty percent (40%) of the originally issued shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the holders of Series A-1 Preferred Stock, voting together as a class, shall be entitled to nominate and elect three (3) members of our Board of Directors, and so long as at least forty percent (40%) of the originally issued shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the holders of Series B Preferred Stock, voting together as a class, shall be entitled to nominate and elect one (1) member of our Board of Directors. Any additional members of the Board of Directors will be nominated and elected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and the holders of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote in each election of directors with the common stock and on an as-converted basis. 24 Because a single stockholder has a controlling percentage of our voting power, other stockholders’ voting power is limited. As of March 15, 2013, Pyxis, was our largest stockholder, holding approximately 48% of the voting power of our capital stock. Accordingly, this stockholder may be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws and the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. This stockholder may make decisions that are adverse to other stockholders’ interests. This ownership concentration may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Three of our seven directors are individuals chosen by this single stockholder. These directors might pursue policies in the interest of this single stockholder to the detriment of our other stockholders. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares of common stock, which you may only be able to do at a loss. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. Furthermore, our credit facility with Pyxis prohibits us from paying cash dividends without Pyxis’s consent. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares, which you may only be able to do at a loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 