Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We are subject to significant competition both within the FSS sector and from other providers of communications capacity, such as fiber optic cable capacity. Competition from other telecommunications providers could have a material adverse effect on our business and could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and expanding our operations as planned. We face significant competition in the FSS industry in different regions around the world. We compete against other satellite operators and against suppliers of ground-based communications capacity. The increasing availability of satellite capacity and capacity from other forms of communications technology has created an excess supply of telecommunications capacity in certain regions. Competition in the FSS industry lowers prices, which can reduce our operating margins and the cash available to fund our operations and service our debt obligations. In addition, there has been a trend toward consolidation of major FSS providers as customers increasingly demand more robust distribution platforms with network redundancies and worldwide reach, and we expect to face increased competition as a result of this trend. Our direct competitors are likely to continue developing and launching satellites with greater power and more transponders, which may create satellite capacity at lower costs. In order to compete effectively, we may have to invest in similar technology. In addition, we believe that there are many companies that are seeking ways to improve the ability of existing land-based infrastructure, such as fiber optic cable, to transmit signals. Any significant improvement or increase in the amount of land-based capacity, particularly with respect to the existing fiber optic cable 28 infrastructure and point-to-point applications, may cause our video services customers to shift their transmissions to land-based capacity or make it more difficult for us to obtain new customers. If fiber optic cable networks or other ground-based high-capacity transmission systems are available to service a particular point, that capacity, when available, is generally less expensive than satellite capacity. As land-based telecommunications services expand, demand for some satellite-based services may be reduced. Failure to compete effectively with other FSS operators and to adapt to new competition and new technologies or failure to implement our business strategy while maintaining our existing business would result in a loss of revenue and a decline in profitability, a decrease in the value of our business and a downgrade of our credit ratings, which would restrict our access to the capital markets. The market for fixed satellite services may not grow or may shrink and therefore we may not be able to attract new customers, retain our existing customers or implement our strategies to grow our business. In addition, pricing pressures may have an adverse impact on FSS sector revenue. The FSS sector, as a whole, is currently expected to experience moderate growth over the next few years. However, the market for fixed satellite services may not grow or may shrink. Competing technologies, such as fiber optic cable, are continuing to adversely affect the point-to-point segment of the FSS sector. In the point-to-multipoint segment, the global economic downturn, the transition of video traffic from analog to digital and continuing improvements in compression technology have negatively impacted demand for certain fixed satellite services. Developments that we expect to support the growth of the satellite services industry, such as continued growth in data traffic and the proliferation of HDTV and niche programming, may fail to materialize or may not occur in the manner or to the extent we anticipate. Any of these industry dynamics could negatively affect our operations and financial condition. Because the market for fixed satellite services may not grow or may shrink, we may not be able to attract customers for the managed services that we are providing as part of our strategy to sustain our business. Reduced growth in the FSS sector may also adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customers. A shrinking market could reduce the number and value of our customer contracts and would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, there could be a substantial negative impact on our credit ratings and our ability to access the capital markets. In 2006 and 2007, we experienced improved pricing trends in many of the regions we serve, as compared to unfavorable pricing trends that impacted our revenue in prior periods. In particular, the price trends have improved in North America, Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. Less favorable price dynamics exist in Asia and Latin America, generally due to overcapacity, although improved economic conditions are resulting in increased demand in these markets, resulting in some stabilization, particularly in Latin America. However, this could change as other operators launch new capacity into the region. Our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to suffer a satellite loss that is not adequately covered by insurance. As our satellite insurance policies expire, we may elect to reduce or eliminate insurance coverage relating to certain of our satellites to the extent permitted by our debt agreements if, in our view, exclusions make such policies ineffective or the costs of coverage make such insurance impractical and we believe that we can more reasonably protect our business through the use of in-orbit spare satellites, backup transponders and self-insurance. A partial or complete failure of a revenue-producing satellite, whether insured or not, could require additional, unplanned capital expenditures, an acceleration of planned capital expenditures, interruptions in service, a reduction in contracted backlog and lost revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain third-party liability insurance on certain of our satellites. This insurance, however, may not be adequate or available to cover all third-party liability damages that may be caused by any of our satellites, and we may not in the future be able to renew our third-party liability coverage on reasonable terms and conditions, if at all. 29 We have several large customers and the loss of, or default by, any one of them could materially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business. We rely on a limited number of customers to provide a substantial portion of our revenue and contracted backlog. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our ten largest customers and their affiliates represented approximately 49% of our revenue. The loss of, or default by, any of these customers could significantly affect our revenue and operating margins. Some customers have in the past defaulted and, although we monitor our larger customers’ financial performance and seek deposits, guarantees and other methods of protection against default where possible, our customers may in the future default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Defaults by any of our larger customers or by a group of smaller customers who, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue could adversely affect our revenue, operating margins and cash flows. If our backlog is reduced due to the financial difficulties of our customers, our revenue and operating margins would be further negatively impacted. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.4 billion of total debt and we had $247.9 million (net of standby letters of credit) of availability under the revolving loan facility of its senior secured credit facility. The aggregate availability under our and Intelsat Sub Holdco’s two revolving credit facilities is subject to compliance by Intelsat, Ltd. with a secured debt covenant, and as a result such aggregate availability was limited to $301.3 million as of December 31, 2007. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy obligations with respect to indebtedness, including our notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of available cash flow to pay principal and interest on debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to engage in strategic transactions or implement our respective business strategies; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt. Any of the factors listed above could materially and adversely affect our business and our results of operations. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur new indebtedness, the related risks, including those described above, could intensify. 30 The terms of our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our existing notes and our other outstanding indebtedness contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants imposing significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. Our senior secured credit facility includes a financial covenant that requires the applicable borrower not to exceed a maximum senior secured leverage ratio. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to use a portion of the proceeds of certain asset sales, in excess of a specified amount, that are not reinvested in our business to repay indebtedness under such facilities. The credit agreements governing the senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our existing notes include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock; • pay dividends, or make redemptions, repurchases or distributions, with respect to ordinary shares or capital stock; • create or incur certain liens; • make certain loans or investments; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, amalgamations, asset sales and sale and leaseback transactions; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. These covenants are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility could result in a default under the applicable credit facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require us to apply all available cash to repay these borrowings. If this occurred under our senior secured credit facility, this would result in an event of default under our existing notes. Those lenders under the senior secured credit facility will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to fund further borrowings. If we were unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt owed to them. If the debt under our senior secured credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay such debt in full or to repay our existing notes and our other existing debt. Our business is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise adequate capital to finance our business strategies, or we may be able to do so only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. Implementation of our business strategy requires a substantial outlay of capital. As we pursue our business strategies and seek to respond to opportunities and trends in our industry, our actual capital expenditures may differ from our expected capital expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital requirements in the future. We currently expect that the majority of our liquidity requirements in 2008 will be satisfied by cash on hand, cash generated from our operations, intercompany borrowings and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, if we determine we need to obtain additional funds through external financing and are unable to do so, we may be prevented from fully implementing our business strategy. 31 The availability and cost to us of external financing depend on a number of factors, including our credit rating and financial performance and general market conditions. Both our credit rating, which was downgraded by Moody’s Investor Services Inc. in June 2006 and again in January 2008 and by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group, or S&P, in June 2006, and again in June 2007 and February 2008, and our ability to obtain financing generally, may be influenced by the supply and demand characteristics of the telecommunications sector in general and of the FSS sector in particular. Declines in our expected future revenue under contracts with customers and challenging business conditions faced by our customers are among the other factors that may adversely affect our credit. Other factors that could impact our credit rating include the amount of debt in our current capital structure, activities associated with our strategic initiatives, our expected future cash flows and the capital expenditures required to execute our business strategy. The overall impact on our financial condition of any transaction that we pursue may be negative or may be negatively perceived by the financial markets and ratings agencies and may result in adverse rating agency actions with respect to our credit rating. A credit rating downgrade or deterioration in our financial performance could limit our ability to obtain financing or could result in any such financing being available only at greater cost or on more restrictive terms than might otherwise be available. Our indentures and the credit agreement related to our senior secured credit facility impose restrictions on us that may limit our flexibility in conducting our business and implementing our strategies. For example, our senior secured credit facility contains financial and operating covenants that, among other things, require us not to exceed a maximum senior secured leverage ratio and limit our ability to pledge our assets as security for additional borrowings. These restrictions will likely make it more difficult for us to obtain further external financing if we require it and could significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. We are subject to political, economic and other risks due to the international nature of our operations. Our combined company provides communications services in approximately 200 countries and territories. Accordingly, we may be subject to greater risks than other satellite operators as a result of the international nature of our business operations. We could be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we provide service. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them. Almost all of our customers are required to pay for our services in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of non-U.S. currencies may make payment in U.S. dollars more expensive for our non-U.S. customers. In addition, our non-U.S. customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. Our New Sponsors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Following completion of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions on February 4, 2008, Intelsat Holdings is controlled by affiliates of the New Sponsors and the funds advised by or associated with the New Sponsors. The New Sponsors, together with certain members of our senior management team and other designated employees, beneficially own substantially all of the equity interests in Intelsat Global, which is the direct parent of Intelsat Global Subsidiary, which is the direct parent of Intelsat Holdings, which is the direct parent of Intelsat, Ltd., and the indirect parent of Intelsat Bermuda. The New Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders. For example, the New Sponsors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness. Additionally, the New Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The New Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the New Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of the equity of Intelsat Global, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 32 We may not be able to complete strategic transactions, which may prevent us from implementing strategies to grow our business. We intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic transactions that can, among other things, broaden our customer base, provide enhanced geographic presence and provide complementary technical and commercial capabilities. Successful completion of any strategic transaction we identify depends on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, we may need to finance any strategic transaction that we identify, and may not be able to obtain the necessary financing on satisfactory terms and within the timeframe that would permit a transaction to proceed. We may also fail to discover liabilities of a business or operating or other problems prior to completing a transaction. We could experience adverse accounting and financial consequences, such as the need to make large provisions against the acquired assets or to write down the acquired assets. We might also experience a dilutive effect on our earnings. In addition, depending on how any such transaction is structured, there may be an adverse impact on our capital structure. We may incur significant costs arising from our efforts to engage in strategic transactions, and such costs may exceed the returns that we realize from a given transaction. Moreover, these expenditures may not result in the successful completion of a transaction. We could be prevented from, or significantly delayed in, achieving our strategic goals if we are unable to complete strategic transactions or to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our business. Any strategic transactions that we do complete may not promote our business strategy, may negatively affect the value of our business or may adversely affect our prospects for long-term growth. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is likely to increase our operating expenses. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business could be materially adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have required, and will require, changes to some of our corporate governance practices. These changes include developing financial and disclosure processes that satisfy Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect that these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We also expect that these rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and to attract and retain qualified executive officers. If we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations, our business could be materially adversely affected. See Item 9A(T)—Controls and Procedures. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry We may experience in-orbit satellite failures or degradations in performance that could impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could lead to lost revenue, an increase in our cash operating expenses, lower operating income or lost backlog. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, that have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of: • the satellite manufacturer’s error, whether due to the use of new and largely unproven technology or simply due to a manufacturing defect; • problems with the power systems of the satellites, including: • circuit failures or other array degradation causing reductions in the power output of the solar arrays on the satellites, which could require us to forego the use of some transponders initially and to turn off additional transponders in later years; and/or • failure of the cells within the batteries, whose sole purpose is to power the payload and spacecraft operations during the daily eclipse periods which occur for brief periods of time during two 40-day periods around March 21 and September 21 of each year; and 33 • problems with the control systems of the satellites, including: • failure of the primary and/or backup spacecraft control processor, or SCP; and • failure of the XIPS used on certain Boeing satellites, which is an electronic propulsion system that maintains the spacecraft’s proper in-orbit position; and/or • general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment. We have experienced anomalies in each of the categories described above. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of these anomalies in new satellites and provide for on-satellite backups for certain critical components to minimize or eliminate service disruptions in the event of failure, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. We could experience equipment or subsystem failures due to design, manufacturing or assembly errors that were not discovered before launch, premature component failure or wear out, and/or the harsh environment of space. These anomalies can manifest themselves in scale from minor reductions of equipment redundancy to marginal reductions in capacity to complete satellite failure. Some of our satellites have experienced significant anomalies in the past and some have components that are now known to be susceptible to similar significant anomalies. Each of these is discussed in Item 1—Business—Satellite Health and Technology. An on-satellite backup may not be available upon the occurrence of such an anomaly. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations, our revenues, our relationship with our current customers and our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly and the availability of on-satellite backups. Anomalies and our estimate of their future effect may also cause a reduction of the expected service life of a satellite and contracted backlog. Anomalies may also cause a reduction of the revenue generated by that satellite or the recognition of an impairment loss. Finally, the occurrence of anomalies may adversely affect our ability to insure our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. While some anomalies are covered by insurance policies, others are not or may not be covered. See—Risk Factors Relating to Our Business—Our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to suffer a satellite loss that is not adequately covered by insurance. We have experienced some technical problems with our current satellite fleet. Three of the BSS 601 satellites that we operated in the past, as well as BSS 601 satellites operated by others, have experienced a failure of the primary and backup SCPs. On January 15, 2006, our Galaxy 3R satellite, operating in an inclined orbit at 74°WL, experienced an anomaly of its back-up SCP and was taken out of service. This satellite had a zero net book value as of December 31, 2007 and this event did not have a material impact on our operations or financial results. One of the BSS 601 satellites that we currently operate has experienced a failure of the primary SCP. Certain of the BSS 601 HP satellites have experienced various problems associated with their XIPS. We currently operate six satellites of this type, two of which have experienced failures of both XIPS. We may in the future experience similar problems associated with XIPS or other propulsion systems on our satellites. In 2004, based on a review of available data, we reduced our estimate of the service life of one of our BSS 601 HP satellites, IS-9, and as a result, we accelerated depreciation expense related to this satellite. Two of the three BSS 702 satellites that we operate, as well as BSS 702s of a similar design operated by others, have experienced a progressive degradation of their solar arrays causing a reduction in output power. Along with the manufacturer, we continually monitor the problem to determine its cause and its expected effect. The power reduction may require us to permanently turn off certain transponders on the affected satellites to allow for the continued operation of other transponders, which could result in a loss of revenues, or may result in a reduction of the satellite’s service life. In 2004, based on a review of available data, we reduced our estimate of the service lives of both satellites due to the continued degradation. 34 We may experience a launch failure or other satellite damage or destruction during launch, which could result in a total or partial satellite loss. A new satellite could also fail to achieve its designated orbital location after launch. Any such loss of a satellite could negatively impact our business plans and could reduce our revenue. Satellites are subject to certain risks related to failed launches. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take 24 months or longer, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our operations and our revenue. In addition, significant delays could give customers who have purchased or reserved capacity on that satellite a right to terminate their service contracts relating to the satellite. We may not be able to accommodate affected customers on other satellites until a replacement satellite is available. A customer’s termination of its service contracts with us as a result of a launch failure would reduce our contracted backlog. Delay caused by launch failures may also preclude us from pursuing new business opportunities and undermine our ability to implement our business strategy. Launch vehicles may also under-perform, in which case the satellite may still be placed into service by using its onboard propulsion systems to reach the desired orbital location, resulting in a reduction in its service life. In addition, although we have had launch insurance on all of our launches to date, if we were not able to obtain launch insurance on reasonable terms and a launch failure were to occur, we would directly suffer the loss of the cost of the satellite and related costs, which could be as much as $250 million. Of the 44 satellites launched by us or our predecessors since 1983, three have resulted in launch failures. In addition, certain launch vehicles that we have used or are scheduled to use have experienced launch failures in the past. Launch failure rates vary according to the launch vehicle used. New or proposed satellites are subject to construction and launch delays, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. The construction and launch of satellites are subject to certain delays. Such delays can result from the delays in the construction of satellites and launch vehicles, the periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities, possible delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and launch failures. We have in the past experienced delays in satellite construction and launch which have adversely affected our operations. Future delays may have the same effect. A significant delay in the future delivery of any satellite may also adversely affect our marketing plan for the satellite. If satellite construction schedules are not met, a launch opportunity may not be available at the time a satellite is ready to be launched. Further, any significant delay in the commencement of service of any of our satellites could enable customers who pre-purchased or agreed to utilize transponder capacity on the satellite to terminate their contracts and could affect our plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its service life. The failure to implement our satellite deployment plan on schedule could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the launch of a satellite intended to replace an existing satellite that results in the existing satellite reaching its end of life before being replaced could result in loss of business to the extent an in-orbit backup is not available. We have plans to launch one satellite during 2008 that will replace a satellite currently in service. This satellite is scheduled to be launched on a Sea Launch vehicle. In January 2007, Sea Launch experienced a launch failure in a satellite launch by SES New Skies. As a result, there have been delays in all launches by Sea Launch. Sea Launch returned to service in January 2008; however, we cannot predict whether we will experience further delays or additional costs in connection with our planned launch. Any delay in the launch of this satellite would cause commencement of service to occur later than the end of the life of the satellite it is replacing, which could result in a loss of revenue and contracted backlog. 35 Risk Factors Relating to Regulation We are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements in each of the countries in which we provide services, and our business is sensitive to regulatory changes in those countries. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and in connection with providing satellite capacity, ground network uplinks, downlinks and other value-added services to our customers, we need to maintain regulatory approvals, and from time to time obtain new regulatory approvals, from various countries. Obtaining and maintaining these approvals can involve significant time and expense. If we cannot obtain or are delayed in obtaining the required regulatory approvals, we may not be able to provide these services to our customers or expand into new services. In addition, the laws and regulations to which we are subject could change at any time, thus making it more difficult for us to obtain new regulatory approvals or causing our existing approvals to be revoked or adversely modified. Because the regulatory schemes vary by country, we may also be subject to regulations of which we are not presently aware and could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our operations in that country. If we cannot comply with the laws and regulations that apply to us, we could lose our revenue from services provided to the countries and territories covered by these laws and regulations and be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. If we do not maintain regulatory authorizations for our existing satellites and associated ground facilities or obtain authorizations for our future satellites and associated ground facilities, we may not be able to operate our existing satellites or expand our operations. Our operation of existing satellites is authorized and regulated by the FCC, the U.K. Office of Communications, referred to as Ofcom, the telecommunications licensing authority in Papua New Guinea, known as PANGTEL, the telecommunications ministry of Japan, and the regulatory agency of Germany, known as BNetzA. If we do not maintain authorizations for our existing satellites, we would not be able to operate the satellites covered by those authorizations, unless we obtained authorization from another licensing jurisdiction. Some of our authorizations provide waivers of technical regulations. If we do not maintain these waivers, we would be subject to operational restrictions or interference that would affect our use of existing satellites. Loss of a satellite authorization could cause us to lose the revenue from services provided by that satellite at a particular orbital location to the extent these services cannot be provided by satellites at other orbital locations. Our launch and operation of planned satellites require additional regulatory authorizations from the FCC or a non-U.S. licensing jurisdiction, some of which we have already obtained. If we do not obtain any required authorizations in the future, we would not be able to operate our planned satellites. If we obtain a required authorization but we do not meet milestones regarding the construction, launch and operation of a satellite by deadlines that may be established in the authorization, we could lose our authorization to operate a satellite using certain frequencies in an orbital location. Any authorizations we obtain may also impose operational restrictions or permit interference that could affect our use of planned satellites. If we do not occupy unused orbital locations by specified deadlines, or do not maintain satellites in orbital locations we currently use, those orbital locations may become available for other satellite operators to use. Our in-orbit satellites do not currently occupy all of the orbital locations for which we have obtained regulatory authorizations. If we are unable to place satellites into currently unused orbital locations by specified deadlines and in a manner that satisfies the International Telecommunication Union, referred to as the ITU, or national regulatory requirements, or if we are unable to maintain satellites at the orbital locations that we currently use, we may lose our rights to use these orbital locations and the locations could become available for other satellite operators to use. We cannot operate our satellites without a sufficient number of suitable orbital locations in which to place the satellites. The loss of one or more of our orbital locations could negatively affect our plans and our ability to implement our business strategy. 36 Coordination results may adversely affect our ability to use a satellite at a given orbital location for our proposed service or coverage area. We are required to record frequencies and orbital locations used by our satellites at the ITU and to coordinate the use of these frequencies and orbital locations in order to avoid interference to or from other satellites. The results of coordination may adversely affect our use of satellites at particular orbital locations. If we are unable to coordinate our satellites by specified deadlines, we may not be able to use a satellite at a given orbital location for our proposed service or coverage area. The use of our satellites may also be temporarily or permanently adversely affected if the operation of adjacent satellite networks does not conform to coordination agreements in a way that the acceptable interference levels are exceeded (e.g., due to operational errors associated with the transmissions to adjacent satellite networks). Our failure to maintain or obtain authorizations under the U.S. export control and trade sanctions laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The export of satellites and technical information related to satellites, earth station equipment and provision of services to certain countries are subject to State Department, Commerce Department and Treasury Department regulations. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations or obtain necessary future authorizations under the export control laws and regulations of the United States, we may be unable to export technical information or equipment to non-U.S. persons and companies, including to our own non-U.S. employees, as required to fulfill existing contracts. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations or obtain necessary future authorizations under the trade sanctions laws and regulations of the United States, we may not be able to provide satellite capacity and related administrative services to certain countries subject to U.S. sanctions. In addition, because we conduct management activities from Bermuda, our U.S. suppliers must comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations in connection with their export of satellites and related equipment and technical information to us. Our ability to acquire new satellites, launch new satellites or operate our satellites could also be negatively affected if our suppliers do not obtain required U.S. export authorizations. I tem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 