ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this Report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve profitability again. For the year ended 2012, we experienced a net loss of $20.0 million and, prior to our fiscal year ended 2011, we incurred operating losses in each annual fiscal year since our inception. We experienced a net loss of approximately $5.9 million in 2010 and we achieved profitability for the first time in 2011, with a net profit of $2.6 million. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $225.6 million. Our ability to be profitable for 2013 and beyond will likely depend on our ability to continue to increase our revenues, which is subject to a number of factors including our ability to continue to successfully penetrate the Clinical market, our ability to successfully market the GeneXpert system and develop and market additional GeneXpert tests, secure regulatory approval of additional GeneXpert tests, continued growth in sales of our healthcare associated infection and other tests, the extent of our participation in the USPS BDS program and the operating parameters of the USPS BDS program, which will affect the rate of our consumable products sold, our ability to compete effectively against current and future competitors, the increasing number of competitors in our market that could reduce the average selling price of our products, the development of our HBDC sales program, the amount of products sold through this program and the extent of global funding for such programs, our ability to penetrate new geographic markets, global economic and political conditions and our ability to increase manufacturing throughput. For example, during each of the three months ended December 31, 2012 and September 30, 2012, we experienced lower than expected revenue that affected our profitability, due primarily to intermittent interruptions in the supply of Xpert cartridge parts. Our ability to be profitable also depends on our expense levels and product gross margin, which are also influenced by a number of factors, including the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products, increases in manufacturing costs associated with our operations, our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, third-party freight costs, the continued progress of our research and development of potential products, the ability to gain FDA clearance for our new products, license fees or royalties we may be required to pay, and the potential need to acquire licenses to new technology or to use our technology in new markets, which could require us to pay unanticipated license fees and royalties in connection with these licenses. Our expansion efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenues to offset higher expenses. These expenses, among other things, may cause our net income and working capital to decrease. If we fail to grow our revenue, manage our expenses and improve our product gross margin, we may not achieve profitability. If we fail to do so, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, our customers’ future purchases are difficult to predict and any failure to meet financial expectations may result in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, such as those described elsewhere in this section, many of which are beyond our control. Because our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indicator of our future performance. Our operating results may be affected by the inability of some of our customers to consummate anticipated purchases of our products, whether due to adverse economic conditions, changes in internal priorities or, in the case of governmental customers, problems with the appropriations process and variability and timing of orders. Additionally, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, meaningful variability in connection with our commercial system placements and system placements and reagent pull-through in our HBDC program. This variability may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Additionally, because of the limited visibility into the actual timing of future system placements, our operating results are difficult to forecast from quarter to quarter. Additionally, we expect moderate fluctuations from quarter to quarter in gross margin depending on product, geography and channel mix, as well as the revenue contribution from our HBDC program, which has lower margin than our other products. If revenue declines in a quarter, whether due to a delay in recognizing expected revenue, adverse economic conditions, and unexpected costs or otherwise, our results of operations will be harmed because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. In particular, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses are not significantly affected by variations in revenue. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed, our ability to generate revenues could be diminished, and our gross margin may be negatively impacted. Our revenues and other operating results will depend in large part on our ability to manufacture and assemble our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner. For example, for each of the three months ended December 31, 2012 and September 30, 2012, we experienced lower than expected revenue due primarily to intermittent interruptions in the supply of Xpert cartridge parts, which also negatively impacted the efficiency or our manufacturing operations and our resulting gross margin. Any interruptions we experience in the manufacturing or shipping of our products could delay our ability to recognize revenues in a particular quarter and could also adversely affect our relationships with our customers. Manufacturing problems can and do arise, and as demand for our products increases, any such problems could have an increasingly significant impact on our operating results. In the past, we have experienced problems and delays in production that have impacted our product yield and the efficiency of our manufacturing operations and caused delays in our ability to ship finished products, and we may experience such delays in the future. We may not be able to react quickly enough to ship products and recognize anticipated revenues for a given period if we experience significant delays in the manufacturing process. In addition, we must maintain sufficient production capacity in order to minimize such delays, which carries fixed costs that we may not be able to offset if orders slow, which would adversely affect our operating margins. If we are unable to manufacture our products consistently, in sufficient quantities, and on a timely basis, our revenues from product sales, gross margins and our other operating results will be materially and adversely affected. We have a limited number of suppliers for critical product components, and if such suppliers fail to deliver key product components in a timely manner, our manufacturing ability would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on a limited number of suppliers that supply some of the components used in the manufacture of our systems and our disposable reaction tubes and cartridges. Strategic purchases of components are necessary for our business. If we need alternative sources for key component parts for any reason, these component parts may not be immediately available to us. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and production of these components may be delayed. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Shipments of affected products have been limited or delayed as a result of such problems in the past, and similar problems could occur in the future. For example, for each of the three months ended December 31, 2012 and September 30, 2012, we experienced intermittent interruptions in the supply of Xpert cartridge parts, which negatively impacted our product sales. In December 2012, we acquired one of our plastic molders with the objective of expanding and improving the reliability of our supply chain. In addition, many companies are experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the continued economic uncertainty. We cannot be assured that our suppliers will not be adversely affected by this uncertainty or that they will be able to continue to provide us with the components we need. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of our products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships or force us to curtail or cease operations. Our sales cycle can be lengthy, which can cause variability and unpredictability in our operating results. The sales cycles for our systems products can be lengthy, particularly during uncertain economic conditions, which makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues in a given period, and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. For example, sales of our products often involve purchasing decisions by large public and private institutions and any purchases can require many levels of pre-approval. In addition, certain Non-Clinical sales may depend on these institutions receiving research grants from various federal agencies, which grants vary considerably from year to year in both amount and timing due to the political process. Additionally, participants in our HBDC program may be dependent on funding from governmental agencies and/or non-governmental organizations and, accordingly, such customers’ purchase decisions may not be within their direct control and may be subject to lengthy administrative processes, the result of which is that the sales cycle in our HBDC program is lengthy and unpredictable. As a result, we may expend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or we may not be able to complete transactions on the schedule anticipated. 12 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully commercialize our products, our business could be harmed. If our tests for use on our systems do not gain continued market acceptance, we will be unable to generate significant sales, which will prevent us from achieving profitability. While we have received FDA clearance for a number of tests, these products may not continue to experience increased sales. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of our products, including: • the timely expansion of our menu of tests; • our ability to fulfill orders; • the results of clinical trials needed to support any regulatory approvals of our tests; • our ability to obtain requisite FDA or other regulatory clearances or approvals for our tests under development on a timely basis; • the demand for the tests we introduce; • the timing of market entry for various tests for the GeneXpert and the SmartCycler systems; • our ability to convince our potential customers of the advantages and economic value of our systems and tests over competing technologies and products; • the breadth of our test menu relative to competitors; • changes to policies, procedures or what are considered best practices in clinical diagnostics, including practices for detecting and preventing healthcare associated infections; • the extent and success of our marketing and sales efforts; • the functionality of new products that address market requirements and customer demands; • the level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payers; and • the publicity concerning our systems and tests. In particular, we believe that the success of our business will depend in large part on our ability to continue to increase sales of our Xpert tests and our ability to introduce additional tests for the Clinical market. We believe that successfully expanding our business in the Clinical market is critical to our long-term goals and success. We have limited ability to forecast future demand for our products in this market. In addition, we have committed substantial funds to licenses that are required for us to compete in the Clinical market. If we cannot successfully penetrate the Clinical market to fully exploit these licenses, these investments may not yield significant returns, which could harm our business. The regulatory processes applicable to our products and operations are expensive, time-consuming and uncertain, and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of some of our products. In the Clinical market, our products are regulated as medical device products by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries. In particular, FDA regulations govern activities such as product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, premarket clearance or approval, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product failures and distribution. Some of our products, depending on their intended use, will require premarket approval (“PMA”) or 510(k) clearance from the FDA prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to four months from submission but can take longer. The PMA process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain and generally takes from six months to one year or longer from submission. Clinical trials are generally required to support both PMA and 510(k) submissions. Certain of our products for use on our GeneXpert and SmartCycler systems, when used for clinical purposes, may require PMA, and all such tests will most likely, at a minimum, require 510(k) clearance. We are planning clinical trials for other proposed products. Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, the commencement or completion of any clinical trials may be delayed or halted for any number of reasons, including product performance, changes in intended use, changes in medical practice and the opinion of evaluator Institutional Review Boards. Additionally, since 2009, the FDA has significantly increased the scrutiny applied to its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including 510(k) submissions, by hiring new investigators and increasing inspections of manufacturing facilities. In January 2011, the FDA announced that it would endeavor to streamline its 510(k) review process and the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health, or CDRH, issued an implementation plan containing 25 specific actions to be implemented in 2011 relating to the 510(k) review process and associated administrative matters. We continue to monitor the CDRH’s implementation of its plan of action and analyze how its decisions will impact the approval of our products. The CDRH also deferred action on several other initiatives, including the creation of a new class of devices that would be subject to heightened review processes, until the Institute of Medicine issued a related report on the 510(k) regulatory process, which was released in late July 2011. Many of the actions proposed by the CDRH could result in significant changes to the 510(k) process, which could complicate the product approval process, although we cannot predict the effect of such changes and cannot ascertain if such changes will have a substantive impact on the approval of our products. If we fail to adequately respond to the increased scrutiny and new 510(k) submission process, our business may be adversely impacted. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to grant premarket clearance or PMA for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals, or criminal prosecution. With regard to future products for which we seek 510(k) clearance or PMA from the FDA, any failure or material delay to obtain such clearance or approval could harm our business. If the FDA were to disagree with our regulatory assessment and conclude that approval or clearance is necessary to market the products, we could be forced to cease marketing the products and seek approval or clearance. With regard to those future products for which we will seek 510(k) clearance or PMA from the FDA, any failure or material delay to obtain such clearance or approval could harm our business. In addition, it is possible that the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products and could harm our business. Our manufacturing facilities located in Sunnyvale and Lodi, California, Seattle, Washington and Stockholm, Sweden, where we assemble and produce the GeneXpert and SmartCycler systems, cartridges and other molecular diagnostic kits and reagents, are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state and foreign regulatory agencies. For example, these facilities are subject to Quality System Regulations (“QSR”) of the FDA and are subject to annual inspection and licensing by the States of California and Washington and European regulatory agencies. If we fail to maintain these facilities in accordance with the QSR requirements, international quality standards or other regulatory requirements, our manufacturing process could be suspended or terminated, which would prevent us from being able to provide products to our customers in a timely fashion and therefore harm our business. Our HBDC program exposes us to increased risks of variability and unpredictable operating results. Our HBDC program exposes us to risks that are additional and different from the risks associated with our other commercial operations, including among other things: • the participants in our HBDC program are located in less developed countries, exposing us to customers in countries that may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems; • the sales cycle in our HBDC program is lengthy and unpredictable, as HBDC program participants are frequently dependent upon governmental agencies and/or non-governmental organizations with additional administrative processes, causing variability and unpredictability in our operating results; • our HBDC business has lower gross margins and, therefore, growth in our HBDC business negatively impacts our gross margins as a whole; and • our collaborative partners and other supporters, such as FIND, BMGF, USAID and the World Health Organization, may cease to devote financial resources to or otherwise cease to support, our HBDC program. An increase in variable and unpredictable operating results and/or an adverse development relating to one or more of these risks could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our HBDC program facilitates the expansion of our other commercial operations into additional geographic locations and, to the extent that our HBDC program is ineffective as a result of one or more of these risks, the international expansion of our other commercial operations could suffer. 13 Table of Contents The federal medical device tax by the U.S. government could adversely affect our business, profitability and stock price. The comprehensive healthcare reform legislation includes an annual excise tax on the sale of medical devices equal to 2.3% of the price of the device, starting on January 1, 2013, which we believe includes all of our Clinical products sold in the U.S. Since we do not intend to pass this tax onto our customers, if we are unable to identify other cost savings in our business, our future operating results could be harmed, which in turn could cause the price of our stock to decline. We rely on licenses of key technology from third parties and may require additional licenses for many of our new product candidates. We rely on third-party licenses to be able to sell many of our products, and we could lose these third-party licenses for a number of reasons, including, for example, early terminations of such agreements due to breaches or alleged breaches by either party to the agreement. If we are unable to enter into a new agreement for licensed technologies, either on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, we may be unable to sell some of our products or access some geographic or industry markets. We also need to introduce new products and product features in order to market our products to a broader customer base and grow our revenues, and many new products and product features could require us to obtain additional licenses and pay additional license fees and royalties. Furthermore, for some markets, we intend to manufacture reagents and tests for use on our systems. We believe that manufacturing reagents and developing tests for our systems is important to our business and growth prospects but may require additional licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to develop, manufacture and sell products, and our strategic plans and growth, could be impaired if we are unable to obtain these licenses or if these licenses are terminated or expire and cannot be renewed. We may not be able to obtain or renew licenses for a given product or product feature or for some reagents on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Furthermore, some of our competitors have rights to technologies and reagents that we do not have which may put us at a competitive disadvantage in certain circumstances and could adversely affect our performance. We may face risks associated with acquisitions of companies, products and technologies and our business could be harmed if we are unable to address these risks. In order to remain competitive, obtain key competencies, consolidate our supply chain or sales force, acquire complementary products or technologies, or for other reasons, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products or technologies. Even if we identify an appropriate acquisition or are presented with appropriate opportunities to acquire or make other investments, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, consummating the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. In 2012, we acquired one of our plastics molders in the United States and two of our international distributors. We have limited experience in successfully acquiring and integrating businesses, products and technologies, and even if we are able to consummate an acquisition or other investment, we may not realize the anticipated benefits, including our 2012 acquisitions. We may face risks, uncertainties and disruptions, including difficulties in the integration of the operations and services of these acquisitions or any other acquired company, integration of acquired technology with our products, diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses and impairment charges if future acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. If we fail to successfully integrate the acquired manufacturing company or any other acquired companies, assets, products or technologies that we acquire, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired intangible assets. Furthermore, identifying, contemplating, negotiating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology could significantly divert management and employee time and resources. 14 Table of Contents The current uncertainty in global economic conditions makes it particularly difficult to predict product demand and other related matters and makes it more likely that our actual results could differ materially from expectations. Our operations and performance depend on global economic conditions, which have been adversely impacted by continued global economic uncertainty, concerns over the U.S. economy and continued sovereign debt, monetary and financial uncertainties globally. These conditions have and may continue to make it difficult for our customers and potential customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and have caused our customers and potential customers to slow or reduce spending, particularly for systems. Furthermore, during economic uncertainty, our customers have experienced and may continue to experience issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in their unwillingness to purchase products or an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to continue to occur, we may experience decreased sales, be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. Even with economic recovery, it may take time for our customers to establish new budgets and return to normal purchasing patterns. We cannot predict the reoccurrence of any economic slowdown or the strength or sustainability of the economic recovery, worldwide, in the U.S. or in our industry. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. If certain of our products fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payers, our ability to sell products in the Clinical market would be harmed. Our ability to sell our products in the Clinical market will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for tests using our products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations and other organizations. There are efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means and the continuous growth of managed care, together with efforts to reform the health care delivery system in the U.S. and Europe, has increased pressure on health care providers and participants in the health care industry to reduce costs. Consolidation among health care providers and other participants in the healthcare industry has resulted in fewer, more powerful health care groups, whose purchasing power gives them cost containment leverage. Additionally, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Furthermore, we are unable to predict what effect the current or any future healthcare reform will have on our business, or the effect these matters will have on our customers. If purchasers or users of our products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using our products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products and whether adequate third-party coverage will be available. 15 Table of Contents The life sciences industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, if our competitors and potential competitors develop superior products and technologies, our competitive position and results of operations would suffer. We face intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our target markets, some of which have substantially greater financial resources and larger, more established marketing, sales and service organizations than we do. These competitors include: • companies developing and marketing sequence detection systems for industrial research products; • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; • companies developing drug discovery technologies; and • companies developing or offering biothreat detection technologies. Several companies provide systems and reagents for DNA amplification or detection. Life Technologies and Roche sell systems integrating DNA amplification and detection (sequence detection systems) to the commercial market. Roche, Abbott, Becton Dickinson, Qiagen, Hologic, Luminex, and Meridian sell sequence detection systems, some with separate robotic batch DNA purification systems and sell reagents to the Clinical market. Other companies, including Siemens, Hologic, and bioMerieux, offer molecular tests. Additionally, we anticipate that in the future, additional competitors will emerge that offer a broad range of competing products. The life sciences industry is characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We may need to develop new technologies for our products to remain competitive. One or more of our current or future competitors could render our present or future products obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances. In addition, the introduction or announcement of new products by us or others could result in a delay of or decrease in sales of existing products, as we await regulatory approvals and as customers evaluate these new products. We may also encounter other problems in the process of delivering new products to the marketplace such as problems related to design, development or manufacturing of such products, and as a result we may be unsuccessful in selling such products. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively against current technologies, as well as to respond effectively to technological advances by developing and marketing products that are competitive in the continually changing technological landscape. If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, we could experience lost revenue, delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality molecular test systems. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. Our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies may be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected or our products are perceived as difficult to use. Despite testing, defects or errors could occur in our products or technologies. Furthermore, with respect to the BDS program, our products are incorporated into larger systems that are built and delivered by others; we cannot control many aspects of the final system. In the future, if our products experience a material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. Such defects or errors could also prompt us to amend certain warning labels or narrow the scope of the use of our products, either of which could hinder our success in the market. Furthermore, any failure in the overall BDS program, even if it is unrelated to our products, could harm our business. Even after any underlying concerns or problems are resolved, any widespread concerns regarding our technology or any manufacturing defects or performance errors in our products could result in lost revenue, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, increased service and warranty costs and claims against us. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our technologies or systems are alleged to have caused harm or do not perform in accordance with specifications, in part because our products are used for sensitive applications. We cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product liability lawsuit brought against us. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • increased product liability insurance costs; • costs of related litigation; and • substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Although we carry product liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could harm our business. 16 Table of Contents If our direct selling efforts for our products fail, our business expansion plans could suffer and our ability to generate revenues will be diminished. We have a relatively small sales force compared to some of our competitors. In addition, we have recently undergone changes in the leadership of our sales organization. If our direct sales force is not successful, or new additions to our sales team fail to gain traction among our customers, we may not be able to increase market awareness and sales of our products. If we fail to establish our systems in the marketplace, it could have a negative effect on our ability to sell subsequent systems and hinder the planned expansion of our business. If our distributor relationships are not successful, our ability to market and sell our products would be harmed and our financial performance will be adversely affected. We depend on relationships with distributors for the marketing and sales of our products in the Clinical and Non-Clinical markets in various geographic regions, and we have a limited ability to influence their efforts. We expect to continue to rely substantially on our distributor relationships for sales into other markets or geographic regions, which are key to our long-term growth strategy. Relying on distributors for our sales and marketing could harm our business for various reasons, including: • agreements with distributors may terminate prematurely due to disagreements or may result in litigation between the partners; • we may not be able to renew existing distributor agreements on acceptable terms; • our distributors may not devote sufficient resources to the sale of our products; • our distributors may be unsuccessful in marketing our products; • our existing relationships with distributors may preclude us from entering into additional future arrangements with other distributors; and • we may not be able to negotiate future distributor agreements on acceptable terms. If any of our distribution agreements are terminated or if we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. We may not be able to enter into new distribution agreements on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we fail to enter into acceptable distribution agreements or fail to successfully market our products, our product sales may decrease. We may be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers or hiring appropriately trained personnel, any of which could result in lower revenues than we previously received from our distributor in that territory. We may be subject to third-party claims that require additional licenses for our products and we could face costly litigation, which could cause us to pay substantial damages and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products. Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, claims of which appear to overlap in many cases. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty regarding the extent of patent protection and infringement. Companies may have pending patent applications, which are typically confidential for the first eighteen months following filing, which cover technologies we incorporate in our products. Accordingly, we may be subjected to substantial damages for past infringement or be required to modify our products or stop selling them if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Moreover, from time to time, we are subject to patent litigation and receive correspondence and other communications from companies that ask us to evaluate the need for a license of patents they hold, and indicating or suggesting that we need a license to their patents in order to offer our products and services or to conduct our business operations. For example, we are currently engaged in litigation as further described in Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Additionally, in September 2012, we entered into an agreement with Abaxis pursuant to which, in exchange for a one-time payment by us to Abaxis of $17.3 million, all present and future litigation relating to the alleged infringement of certain Abaxis patents by us and our counterclaims against Abaxis were resolved. Even if we are successful in defending against claims, we could incur substantial costs in doing so. Any litigation related to existing claims and others that may arise in the future of patent infringement would likely consume our resources and could lead to significant damages, royalty payments or an injunction on the sale of certain products. Any additional licenses to patented technology could obligate us to pay substantial additional royalties, which could adversely impact our product costs and harm our business. If we fail to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors could use our technology to develop competing products and our business will suffer. Our competitive success will be affected in part by our continued ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our inventions, technologies and discoveries, including our intellectual property that includes technologies that we license. Our ability to do so will depend on, among other things, complex legal and factual questions. We have patents related to some of our technology and have licensed some of our technology under patents of others. Our patents and licenses may not successfully preclude others from using our technology. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over applications submitted by third parties or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. 17 Table of Contents In addition, there are numerous recent changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, in September 2011, the U.S. enacted sweeping changes to the U.S. patent system under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, including changes that would transition the U.S. from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-to-file” system and alter the processes for challenging issued patents. These changes could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements, licenses and other contractual provisions and technical measures to maintain and develop our competitive position with respect to intellectual property. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. For example, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the U.S. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside of the U.S. Our trade secrets could become known through other unforeseen means. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology. Our competitors may also develop similar products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. Furthermore, any efforts to enforce our proprietary rights could result in disputes and legal proceedings that could be costly and divert attention from our business. The U.S. Government has certain rights to use and disclose some of the intellectual property that we license and could exclusively license it to a third party if we fail to achieve practical application of the intellectual property. Aspects of the technology licensed by us under agreements with third party licensors may be subject to certain government rights. Government rights in inventions conceived or reduced to practice under a government-funded program may include a non-exclusive, royalty-free worldwide license to practice or have practiced such inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us or our licensors (as applicable) to grant licenses which would be exclusive under any of such inventions to a third party if they determine that: (1) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize such inventions in a particular field of use; (2) such action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (3) such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations. Further, the government rights include the right to use and disclose, without limitation, technical data relating to licensed technology that was developed in whole or in part at government expense. At least one of our technology license agreements contains a provision recognizing these government rights. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some, if not all, of our intellectual property rights and thereby impair our ability to compete. We rely on patents to protect a large part of our intellectual property. To protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. For example, in August 2012, we initiated a legal proceeding in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California requesting such court to find that we do not infringe certain patents held by Roche. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. They would also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. We may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in our industry are generally uncertain. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, would be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Any public announcements related to these suits could cause our stock price to decline. Our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs. We conduct operations on a global basis. These operations are subject to a number of difficulties and special costs, including: • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • increased regulatory risk, including additional regulatory requirements different or more stringent than those in the United States; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • foreign exchange and currency risks; • exposure to risks associated with sovereign debt uncertainties in Europe and other foreign countries; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or longer payment cycles; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; 18 Table of Contents • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties and expense in enforcing intellectual property rights; • business risks, including fluctuations in demand for our products and the cost and effort to conduct international operations and travel abroad to promote international distribution and overall global economic conditions; • multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; and • political and economic instability. We intend to expand our international sales and marketing activities, including through our direct sales operations and through relationships with additional international distribution partners. As our international expansion continues, we may not be able to attract international distribution partners that will be able to market our products effectively or may have trouble entering geographic markets that are less receptive to sales from foreign entities. Additionally, our continued expansion into less developed countries in connection with our HBDC program, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems, heightens the exposure of the risks set forth above. As we continue to expand our operations into less developed countries, we will increase our exposure to the above risks. An adverse development relating to one or more of these risks, or any other risks associated with our operations in less developed countries, could adversely affect our ability to conduct and expand our business, which could negatively impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations could also increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. If we cannot comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our products and services or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, foreign countries may impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business. The nature of some of our products may also subject us to export control regulation by the U.S. Department of State and the Department of Commerce. Violations of these regulations can result in monetary penalties and denial of export privileges. Our sales to customers outside the U.S. are subject to government export regulations that require us to obtain licenses to export such products. If the U.S. government was to amend its export control regulations, such amendments could create uncertainty in our industry, result in increased costs of compliance, and further restrict our ability to sell our products abroad. In particular, we are required to obtain a new license for each purchase order of our biothreat products that are exported outside the U.S. Delays or denial of the grant of any required license, or changes to the regulations that make such delays or denials more likely or frequent, could make it difficult to make sales to foreign customers and could adversely affect our revenue. In addition, we could be subject to fines and penalties for violation of these export regulations if we were found in violation. Such violation could result in penalties, including prohibiting us from exporting our products to one or more countries, and could materially and adversely affect our business. If we fail to retain key members of our staff, our ability to conduct and expand our business would be impaired. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of services of any of these persons could seriously harm our product development and commercialization efforts. In addition, we require skilled personnel in areas such as microbiology, clinical and sales, marketing and finance. We generally do not enter into employment agreements requiring these employees to continue in our employment for any period of time. Attracting, retaining and training personnel with the requisite skills remains challenging, particularly in the Silicon Valley, where our main office is located. If at any point we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to match our growth, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. If we become subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials, we could incur significant cost and time to comply. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including biological hazardous materials. We are subject to foreign, federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. We may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) and the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act in the U.S. OSHA or the EPA may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that would have a material adverse effect on our operations. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our workers’ compensation insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. 19 Table of Contents If a catastrophe strikes our manufacturing or warehousing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture or distribute our products for a substantial amount of time and may experience inventory shortfalls, which would cause us to experience lost revenues. Our manufacturing facilities are located in Sunnyvale and Lodi, California, Seattle, Washington, and Stockholm, Sweden. Although we have business interruption insurance, our facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Various types of disasters, including earthquakes, fires, floods and acts of terrorism, may affect our manufacturing facilities. Earthquakes are of particular significance since our primary manufacturing facilities in California are located in an earthquake-prone area. In the event our existing manufacturing facilities or equipment are affected by man-made or natural disasters, we may be unable to manufacture products for sale or meet customer demands or sales projections. If our manufacturing operations were curtailed or ceased, it would seriously harm our business. We might require additional capital to respond to business challenges or acquisitions, and such capital might not be available. We may need to engage in additional equity or debt financing to respond to business challenges or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Equity and debt financing, however, might not be available when needed or, if available, might not be available on terms satisfactory to us. In addition, to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. In addition, these securities may be sold at a discount from the market price of our common stock and may include rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our participation in the USPS BDS program may not result in predictable revenues in the future. Our participation in the USPS BDS program involves significant uncertainties related to governmental decision-making and timing of purchases and is highly sensitive to changes in national priorities and budgets. The USPS reported more than $15 billion and $5 billion in losses for the 2012 and 2011 fiscal years, respectively. Budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to projects such as the BDS program, sometimes without advance notice. We cannot be certain that actual funding and operating parameters, or product purchases, will occur at currently expected levels or in the currently expected timeframe. We rely on relationships with collaborative partners and other third parties for development, supply and marketing of certain products and potential products, and such collaborative partners or other third parties could fail to perform sufficiently. We believe that our success in penetrating our target markets depends in part on our ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies. Relying on collaborative relationships is risky to our future success for these products because, among other things: • our collaborative partners may not devote sufficient resources to the success of our collaboration; • our collaborative partners may not obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; • our collaborative partners may be acquired by another company and decide to terminate our collaborative partnership or become insolvent; • our collaborative partners may develop technologies or components competitive with our products; • components developed by collaborators could fail to meet specifications, possibly causing us to lose potential projects and subjecting us to liability; • disagreements with collaborators could result in the termination of the relationship or litigation; • collaborators may not have sufficient capital resources; • collaborators may pursue tests or other products that will not generate significant volume for us, but may consume significant research and development and manufacturing resources; and • we may not be able to negotiate future collaborative arrangements, or renewals of existing collaborative agreements, on acceptable terms. Because these and other factors may be beyond our control, the development or commercialization of these products may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. If we or any of our collaborative partners terminate a collaborative arrangement, we may be required to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization or we may need to cancel some development programs, which could adversely affect our product pipeline and business. 20 Table of Contents We enter into collaborations with third parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenues. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into collaborative arrangements to develop new products or to pursue new markets. These collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success, and these collaborations could be terminated prior to developing any products. In addition, our collaboration partners may not necessarily purchase the volume of products that we expect. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that any of our collaborations will result in the successful development of a commercially viable product or result in significant additional future revenues in the future. We maintain cash balances in our bank accounts that exceed the FDIC insurance limitation. We maintain our cash assets at commercial banks in amounts in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit of $250,000. In the event of the commercial banks failing, we may lose the amount of our deposits over any federally-insured amount, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and our results of operations. Compliance with regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting is complex and expensive. Many laws and regulations, notably those adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the SEC, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the NASDAQ Stock Market, impose obligations on public companies, such as ours, which have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Compliance with these reforms and enhanced new disclosures has required and will continue to require substantial management time and oversight and requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. The effects of new laws and regulations remain unclear and will likely require substantial management time and oversight and require us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. Additionally, changes to existing accounting rules and standards and the implementation of new accounting rules or standards, such as the new lease accounting or revenue recognition rules, may adversely impact our reported financial results and business, and may further require us to incur greater accounting fees. Our operating results could be materially affected by unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. Our determination of our tax liability (like any company’s determination of its tax liability) is subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment including our determination of whether a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets is appropriate. We expect to maintain such valuation allowance so long as there is insufficient evidence that we will be able to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets. We reassess the realizability of the deferred tax assets as facts and circumstances dictate. If after future assessments of the realizabilty of the deferred tax assets, we determine that a lesser or greater allowance is required, or that no such allowance is appropriate, we will record a corresponding change to the income tax expense and the valuation allowance in the period of such determination. The uncertainty surrounding the future realization of our net deferred tax assets could adversely impact our results of operations. Although we believe our estimates and judgments are reasonable, including those related to our valuation allowance, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our stock price is highly volatile and investing in our stock involves a high degree of risk, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock, like the securities of many other medical product companies, fluctuates over a wide range, and will continue to be highly volatile in the future. During fiscal year 2012, the closing sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $28.12 to $46.00 per share. Because our stock price has been volatile, investing in our common stock is risky. Furthermore, volatility in the stock price of other companies has often led to securities class action litigation against those companies. Any future securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 