Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report, and we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We assume no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual results. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a molecular diagnostics company that develops, manufactures, and markets fully-integrated systems for genetic analysis in the clinical molecular diagnostics, industrial and biothreat markets. Our systems enable rapid, sophisticated molecular testing for organisms and genetic-based diseases by automating otherwise complex manual laboratory procedures. Molecular testing involves a number of complicated and time-intensive steps, including sample preparation, DNA amplification and detection. Our easy-to-use systems integrate these steps and analyze complex biological samples in our proprietary test cartridges. We are focusing our efforts on those applications where rapid molecular testing is particularly important, such as identifying infectious diseases and cancer in the clinical market; food, agricultural and environmental testing in the industrial market; and identifying bio-terrorism agents in the biothreat market. Our two principal instrument platforms are our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems and modules, and we currently have a combined installed base of approximately 4,300 systems and modules. The SmartCycler, which we began selling in May 2000, integrates DNA amplification and detection to allow rapid analysis of a sample. The GeneXpert system integrates automated sample preparation with our SmartCycler DNA amplification and detection technology. We began shipping GeneXpert modules and anthrax test cartridges in the fourth quarter of 2003 for incorporation into the Biohazard Detection System (“BDS”) developed by a Northrop Grumman-led consortium for use by the United States Postal Service (“USPS”) for the detection of anthrax. There are now approximately 1,100 BDS units incorporating our GeneXpert modules routinely running in approximately 270 US postal facilities. In addition, we are currently fulfilling a purchase order for 2.3 million anthrax test cartridges for use with the BDS, which we expect to complete by the fourth quarter of 2006. We launched the GeneXpert system for stand-alone use in the biothreat market in the third quarter of 2004. The GeneXpert system, a closed, self-contained, fully-integrated and automated system, represents a paradigm shift in the automation of molecular analysis, producing accurate results in a timely manner with 3 Table of Contents minimal risk of contamination. Our GeneXpert system can provide rapid results with superior test specificity and sensitivity over comparable systems on the market today that are integrated but have open architectures. We will launch the GeneXpert system for clinical use in Europe in the near term. Contemporaneous with this launch, we will introduce our first European clinical molecular diagnostics product for use on the GeneXpert system, a test for detection of BCR/ ABL, a chromosomal abnormality associated with leukemia. In the United States, we have introduced our first clinical research product for use on the GeneXpert system, a Research Use Only (“RUO”) product for detection of BCR/ ABL. We anticipate making our initial 510(k) filings for other products for use on the GeneXpert system during the first half of 2006. We sell our two instrument platforms through both direct sales and distribution channels worldwide. Our customers cover a broad spectrum, ranging from government organizations, such as the Centers for Disease Control (“CDC”), the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the National Institutes of Health, to major academic medical centers, including the Cleveland Clinic, Johns Hopkins University, Magee-Womens Hospital, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Stanford University. Our primary GeneXpert customer to date has been Northrop Grumman for the USPS BDS. Starting in 2004, we entered into a number of key licensing arrangements that enhance our ability to expand into new applications to better penetrate our target markets. We entered into patent license agreements with Applera Corporation, through its Applied Biosystems business group and its Celera Diagnostics joint venture, that allow us to sell SmartCycler and GeneXpert real-time polymerase chain reaction (“PCR”) thermal cyclers under Applera’s real-time apparatus patent rights. We also obtained a license from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (“Roche”) that provides us with rights under a broad range of Roche patents, which include patents relating to the PCR process, reverse transcription-based methods, nucleic acid quantification methods, real-time PCR detection process and composition, and patents relating to methods for detection of viral and cancer targets. More recently, we licensed from DxS Ltd an alternative real-time PCR detection technology, Scorpions, for both the industrial and clinical markets, enabling us to develop certain multiplexed tests and provide quicker time-to-result for selected applications. We intend to actively pursue acquisitions of molecular markers and/or complementary products, technologies or companies in the fields of oncology, infectious diseases and other fields appropriate for molecular diagnostics. INDUSTRY OVERVIEW In recent years, significant advances in molecular biology have led to the development of increasingly efficient and sensitive techniques for detecting and measuring the presence of a particular genetic sequence in a biological sample. The three key processing steps in molecular testing are: • Sample preparation — procedures that must be performed to isolate the target cells and to separate and purify their nucleic acids, such as DNA and RNA; • Amplification — a chemical process to make large quantities of DNA from the nucleic acids isolated from the sample; and • Detection — the method of determining the presence or absence of the target DNA or RNA, typically through the use of fluorescent dyes. Currently, the most widely-used method for molecular testing is to amplify the target sequence using DNA amplification methods such as PCR and to detect the presence of the target using complementary DNA segments tagged with fluorescent dyes that attach to the sequence. The DNA segments that attach to the target DNA sequence are called DNA probes. DNA probes can be designed for any unique genetic sequence and have been developed for many significant infectious disease organisms, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (“MRSA”), group B streptococcus (“GBS”), organisms associated with sexually-transmitted diseases, including human papillomavirus (“HPV”), and many genetic mutations associated with human cancer and with inherited human disorders. 4 Table of Contents Competing technologies for genetic analysis of a cell or organism generally have the following limitations: • Require highly skilled technicians and special laboratories. Currently available methods and systems for molecular analysis generally require highly skilled scientists and technicians in a special laboratory setting, including, in many cases, separate rooms to prevent contamination of one sample by another. • Potential for contamination. We believe that current open architecture DNA amplification and detection systems carry the risk of specimen-to-specimen carryover or environmental contamination. In addition, such open systems do not permit sequential PCR reactions performed on the same target (“nested PCR”) to be performed without significantly increased risk of contamination. • Sensitivity constraints. Some existing technologies accept and process only very small sample volumes, forcing laboratory technicians to spend significant effort in concentrating larger samples in order to obtain the required level of sensitivity. • Timeliness of result. Current sample preparation, DNA amplification and detection technologies rely on processes that often require hours to complete, rendering results that may not be timely enough to be medically useful. This time-to-result may be further delayed by hours or days due to the limited availability of high- complexity molecular diagnostic services in most hospital environments, or due to the limited operating schedules of these services. • Large and inflexible equipment. Most currently available genetic analysis equipment is large and inflexible and requires a technically complex operating environment. OUR SOLUTION We have developed easy-to-use systems that integrate automated sample preparation, DNA amplification and detection. Our systems are designed to handle a variety of different biological samples in a broad range of environments and offer the following key benefits: • Ease of use. Our systems are easy to use and are designed to operate in a wide range of environments, including hospitals, research laboratories, physician offices, public health clinics or industrial settings. In particular, our GeneXpert system automates sample preparation, DNA amplification and detection in a manner that can allow non-technical personnel to conduct sophisticated genetic analysis. • Integration of key steps. Our GeneXpert system integrates automated sample preparation with our SmartCycler DNA amplification and detection technology. This integrated system enables the user to place the specimen in the test cartridge and obtain the result without performing additional interim tasks. This closed, self-contained, fully-integrated and automated system represents a paradigm shift in the automation of molecular analysis, producing accurate results in a timely manner with minimal risk of contamination. • Flexibility of platforms. Our systems are highly flexible. Each test module within an instrument is independently controlled, enabling users to run several different tests, each using a different protocol, beginning at the same or different points in time. In addition, the user does not need to wait for all tests to be completed before starting additional tests. This flexibility allows for testing of multiple samples in a short period of time. • System intelligence. Certain diagnoses require sequential testing to provide additional information to the clinician in order to make an accurate clinical determination. For example, a preferred approach to the detection of MRSA would be to first test for the presence of Staphylococcus aureus, and, if it is present, conduct multiple tests for antibiotic resistance. Without requiring operator intervention, our systems can, in response to results obtained from the first phase of the testing process, automatically select the appropriate next step, including whether to perform a second, independent PCR analysis before concluding the testing process. • Multiple target analysis. With our technology, multiple distinct organisms or diseases in each sample can be simultaneously detected in the same cartridge or disposable reaction tube. For example, one test 5 Table of Contents cartridge or tube could be used to test simultaneously for methicillin-resistant and methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (“MSSA”); for multiple sexually-transmitted diseases; or for multiple organisms causing sepsis. • Greater specificity. Our technology provides greater specificity due to its ability to simultaneously detect, either in the same or sequential reactions, multiple distinct genetic targets within the same organism or disease. This enables built-in confirmation of the target, thereby providing greater confidence in the test result. For example, the USPS has run over two million anthrax tests on the BDS with no false positives. • Enhanced sensitivity. Our GeneXpert test cartridges are designed to optimize the sensitivity of PCR technology through concentration of specimen, efficient target lysis, and purification and recovery of target genetic material. Our cartridges are flexible enough to handle a broad range of clinically appropriate sample volumes, permitting a higher amount of clinical material for a given test, thereby providing the ability to obtain higher concentrations of target genetic material in the cartridge. Our cartridges subsequently enable highly efficient, automated cell lysis. Finally, our cartridges remove material that may inhibit the test reaction. • Rapid results. Our systems are designed to substantially reduce the time to result, allowing results from genetic tests, such as the GBS test, to be timely enough to be medically useful. For example, our GeneXpert system is able to produce a result from a raw biological sample in as little as 30 minutes, potentially while the patient is still with the physician. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to become the leading supplier of integrated systems and tests for genetic assessment in a variety of environments. Key elements of our strategy to achieve this objective include: • Provide a fully-integrated molecular testing solution to the clinical market. We believe our GeneXpert system will enable us to significantly expand our presence in the clinical market, because we believe this system is the only closed, self-contained, fully-integrated and automated system for molecular testing commercially available. The GeneXpert system will allow healthcare providers to obtain timely, accurate results from a raw biological sample, with minimal risk of contamination. We will launch the GeneXpert system for clinical use in Europe in the near term. In addition, we will introduce our first European clinical molecular diagnostics product for use on the GeneXpert system, a test for detection of BCR/ ABL. In the United States, we introduced our first clinical research product for use on the GeneXpert system, a RUO product for detection of BCR/ ABL. We anticipate making our initial 510(k) filings for other products for use on the GeneXpert system during the first half of 2006. • Obtain additional target rights. We expect to continue to expand our collaborations with academic institutions to develop and obtain target rights to various infectious disease and cancer targets. In addition, we will be focusing key business development activities on identifying infectious disease and cancer targets held by academic institutions or commercial operations for potential license or acquisition. • Continue to develop and market new tests. We plan to capitalize on our strengths in nucleic acid chemistry and molecular biology to internally develop new tests for our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems. For example, we have recently completed clinical trials of our GBS test and are nearing completion of the clinical trial for our Enterovirus (“EV”) test, both of which we developed internally for our GeneXpert system. We are also working on development of a product for MRSA/MSSA on the GeneXpert system. In addition, we are working with strategic partners and major academic medical centers to co-develop and validate additional tests. Some of our significant collaborators for the development of new tests include the Children’s Medical Center of Dallas, the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, the CDC, the FDA, the USDA and the United States Army Medical 6 Table of Contents Research Institute of Infectious Diseases. We intend to further pursue these and additional strategic relationships to rapidly expand our test development and commercialization. • Enhance international platform. We will introduce our first European clinical molecular diagnostics product for use on the GeneXpert system in the near term. We plan to introduce several additional CE mark-approved tests in the near term, including GBS and EV, and intend to leverage our existing European infrastructure to sell these products. We conduct our European operations through our French subsidiary, Cepheid SA, which has a facility, sales and customer support personnel and an established European distribution network. We will continue to expand our distribution network in Europe as we introduce new tests. In addition, we intend to expand in other international markets. • Expand applications in the industrial and biothreat markets. We currently sell products into the industrial and biothreat markets and intend to expand our offerings in these markets. For example, in the industrial market we sell tests to detect E. coli O:157 to FDA testing laboratories and tests to detect avian influenza to the USDA. We intend to expand our product offerings in the industrial market in areas such as environmental and water testing. In the biothreat market, we currently sell products for use by the USPS and the US Department of State. We intend to expand our sales of biothreat products to first-responders, other government agencies and civilian markets, as well as to continue to sell anthrax tests for use with the BDS. OUR TECHNOLOGY Automated sample preparation We believe that the proprietary automated sample preparation technology we have incorporated in the GeneXpert system is the first to integrate the basic chemistry and physics required to prepare a raw sample for integrated amplification and detection. We have developed microfluidic technologies that perform these steps in a disposable cartridge. The key steps in sample preparation together with our corresponding technologies are as follows: Adding reagents. We manufacture disposable sample preparation cartridges and reagents lyophilized into a bead format. Our disposable cartridges also incorporate a proven fluid delivery system. Measuring sample volume and mixing. We use pressure differences to flow liquids through our cartridges and use proprietary mechanical valving mechanisms to produce precise fluid flow control. Our flow-through technology allows the sample to be processed on a continuous basis and is critical to our ability to accommodate the larger sample sizes required for high sensitivity pathogen detection. Our cartridges mix fluids through a versatile, proprietary, plastic valve assembly that can accommodate a variety of sample preparation protocols. Separating and capturing specific cells or targets. Our cartridges incorporate filters or nucleic acid capture assemblies that can perform functions ranging from basic sample clean up to specific cell or target capture. Lysing cells. We have developed a proprietary lysis technology capable of rapidly releasing DNA from the cells of organisms that are difficult to lyse, such as spores. This versatile ultrasonic lysing technology is incorporated in our GeneXpert system and allows lysis procedures that otherwise can take hours, to be performed in seconds. Microfluidic interface with the reaction tube. In the GeneXpert system, we integrate the sample preparation cartridge with our proprietary reaction tube, the same tube design used in our I-CORE (Integrated, Cooling/ Heating Optics Reaction) modules and SmartCycler for amplification and detection. After capturing and concentrating the DNA or RNA from the sample, our cartridge automatically mixes the DNA or RNA with amplification reagents and moves the DNA or RNA to the reaction tube for amplification and detection. This interface with the reaction tube allows multiple sequential reactions to be performed from the same processed specimen. The software that is used with our systems can determine which sequential reactions should be implemented. Our technology also allows for nested 7 Table of Contents PCR, in which ultrasensitive detection of nucleic acid targets can be achieved. While nested PCR offer substantially higher levels of sensitivity than single-stage PCR, it is normally not recommended for clinical diagnostic testing because of contamination risk. However the enclosed environment of the GeneXpert allows it to be performed accurately within the microfluidic interface. We believe that Cepheid’s test for BCR/ ABL transcript detection is the first commercially available test to successfully implement nested amplification. Amplification and detection In 1997, we licensed a technology from University of California/ Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories (LLNL) that allows us to integrate amplification and detection. Our commercial version of the technology is called the I-CORE module, a single chamber module measuring approximately one inch by four inches by five inches. An I-CORE is a complete, independent, temperature-controlled fluorimeter for performing and continuously monitoring chemical reactions such as PCR, and is a key element of both our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems. The temperature of the sample can be controlled rapidly and accurately, allowing faster reactions and more accurate results. The I-CORE technology also allows the analysis of samples to be performed with much lower power than traditional methods. This permits our systems to be portable, giving our customers the capability to obtain bioanalytical results when and where they are needed. We use our I-CORE technology in both our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems. Independent control. One of the key distinguishing features of our I-CORE technology is that in a system composed of multiple I-COREs, each I-CORE can be operated and controlled independently. We believe that this is not possible with any other system currently on the market. In contrast to traditional thermal cycling systems, in which all the samples are subjected to the same time/temperature/optical protocol, each sample in an I-CORE-based instrument can be subjected to a different protocol. This allows the operator to perform many different tests or experiments at the same time on the same instrument. Powerful optical analysis. Each I-CORE module currently includes a four-channel optical analysis system. This allows the detection and quantification of multiple fluorescent dyes and multiple target molecules in the same cartridge or disposable reaction tube. Continuous optical monitoring during amplification also allows the user to stop the reaction as soon as a target is detected, thereby shortening the time to result. For example, in a single reaction tube, the I-CORE module could simultaneously detect and quantify Staphylococcus aureus, detect the presence or absence of the methicillin-resistance gene and measure the optical response of a separate internal control target included to allow a user to verify the performance of the system. Patented reaction tube. Our patented disposable reaction tubes are used in conjunction with the I-CORE module and have been optimized to provide rapid temperature cycling and long optical path lengths for optimum optical sensitivity. In addition, the tube is designed to eliminate entrapped air, which can interfere with the optical signal. This feature minimizes optical noise, makes tests more uniform and reproducible and minimizes the need for optical normalization. Easy-to-use lyophilized PCR reagents. In order to attain our goal of “providing genetic test results, when and where they are needed,” we must provide a total solution to the customer, which includes easy-to-use PCR reagents. Current liquid reagents are inconvenient in that they must be stored at near freezing temperatures in order to maintain their performance. Cepheid uses a PCR reagent technology in which all the liquid chemicals necessary to perform PCR are lyophilized, or freeze-dried, into small, stable pellets. These pellets are pre-mixed doses of PCR chemicals that are stable over long periods of time at room temperature and easy for the customer to use. Robust proven amplification technology. During 2004, we obtained a broad based non-exclusive worldwide license to the IVD market from Roche for its real-time PCR technology. Real-time PCR has been proven to be a robust amplification technology, which is applicable to genetic targets throughout the human genome and for the detection of infectious organisms. This technology also provides the benefit of enabling results on a short time-to-result basis, which can be a key requirement in a number of clinical situations. 8 Table of Contents PRODUCTS Our products are comprised of two system platforms our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems and a growing menu of tests that can be run on each platform. Our initial product platform, the SmartCycler, integrates DNA amplification and detection to allow rapid genetic analysis of a sample. We commenced sales of the SmartCycler in May 2000 and we have sold approximately 2,500 units to date to a wide range of customers. Our second product platform, the GeneXpert, integrates automated sample preparation with our SmartCycler amplification and detection technology. We began shipping GeneXpert modules and anthrax test cartridges for use in the USPS BDS Program in the fourth quarter of 2003. The GeneXpert module is incorporated in the BDS developed by the Northrop Grumman-led consortium for use by the USPS. We launched the GeneXpert system in the biothreat market in the third quarter of 2004 and we launched it in the clinical research genetic assessment area with a Research Use Only (RUO) hematological oncology test, BCR/ABL, late in 2005. We anticipate its full commercial launch in the clinical molecular diagnostics market in the first half of 2006. In addition to our own activities, we are collaborating with academic and strategic partners to co-develop tests. The following table provides additional detail about the amplification and detection products we offer: Products Description System Platforms SmartCycler System Laboratory-based DNA analysis instrument containing 16 I-CORE modules. GeneXpert System Self contained set of GeneXpert modules (from one to four modules) for biothreat and clinical molecular diagnostics markets. Clinical molecular diagnostics IDI Group B Streptococcus Test that runs on SmartCycler; used to detect presence of Group B Streptococcus developed in collaboration with Infectio Diagnostics, Inc. (merged with GeneOhm Sciences, Inc., which was acquired by Becton, Dickson and Company in February 2006). IDI Methicillin Resistant Staphylococus Aureus Test that runs on SmartCycler used to detect presence of Methicillin Resistant Staphylococus Aureus; developed in collaboration with Infectio Diagnostics, Inc. GeneXpert BCR/ABL (RUO) Disposable cartridge that contains probes and primers for the detection of BCR/ABL p210 (b2a2 and b3a2) major breakpoint translocation and the ABL probes and primers for the detection of the ABL sequence. SmartMix General use PCR enzyme reagent master mix for use on the SmartCycler product, licensed from Eppendorf AG. Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs) Probes and primers designed to detect various targeted gene sequences. We currently have 14 ASR’s on the market. Industrial OmniMix General use PCR enzyme reagent for use on the SmartCycler product, produced in collaboration with Takara Bio, Inc. 9 Table of Contents Disposable SmartCycler Reaction Tubes 25 and 100 microliter disposable reaction tubes optimized for research and diagnostic applications. Biothreat GeneXpert Module Automated system for sample preparation, amplification and detection from raw biological samples designed for integration into larger biodetection systems. GeneXpert Anthrax Cartridge Disposable cartridge for the detection of anthrax on our GeneXpert platform. System Platforms SmartCycler The SmartCycler product platform contains 16 I-CORE modules arranged into a rapid, flexible, multi-purpose instrument capable of performing DNA amplification by means of PCR or other amplification methods and detection by means of a number of available fluorescent chemical techniques. The SmartCycler II is the second generation of the SmartCycler product. It was released in November 2002 and incorporates enhanced optical and software features. Approximately 2,500 SmartCyclers have been sold since the introduction of the product. GeneXpert Our GeneXpert product platform combines sample preparation with the amplification and detection functions performed by our I-CORE module into an integrated, automated genetic analysis instrument. These products are designed to purify, concentrate, detect and identify targeted DNA sequences, from sample to result, in as little as 30 minutes, and the system is designed to allow non-technical personnel to conduct sophisticated genetic analysis. Current techniques for accomplishing this same complex series of procedures require extensive manual labor by skilled technicians or expensive automated equipment. Our first product on the market in this platform is the GeneXpert module, which has been incorporated in the USPS BDS and is currently being sold for integration by partner companies into their systems. We launched the GeneXpert system in the biothreat market in the third quarter of 2004 and we launched it in the clinical research genetic assessment area with a Research Use Only (RUO) hematological oncology test, BCR/ABL, late in 2005. We anticipate its full commercial launch in the clinical molecular diagnostics market in the first half of 2006. The GeneXpert system is designed to accept cartridges with several different internal configurations, each designed to perform a different class of test or protocol. Each cartridge is labeled with test-specific bar codes that, through software loaded on an integrated computer, link to specific information on to how to direct the fluids through the cartridge and activate the various mixing, lysing, amplification, detection and other functions as required. The GeneXpert system is compact, uses low power and is suitable for applications requiring portability. Industrial OmniMix Our OmniMix product is produced under a collaborative agreement with Takara Bio, Ltd. (Takara) under which we package and distribute a dry-formulated version of Takara’s Taq HS polymerase product that has been optimized for use on the SmartCycler. The OmniMix product provides researchers with a general-use PCR enzyme reagent optimized for our products. 10 Table of Contents Disposable SmartCycler Reaction Tubes One of our patented disposable reaction tubes is required for each test run using our SmartCycler product platform. Tubes are designed to be disposed of after a single use and represent opportunities for recurring revenue from an installed base of systems. We manufacture and sell a 25 and 100 microliter tube. Clinical molecular diagnostics Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs) We released four ASRs for Bordella Pertussis, Enterovirus and HSV-Typing and Non-Typing tests for the SmartCycler in 2004, and ten ASR’s for GUS, TACSTD 1, Parvovirus B19, Staphylococcus aureus protein A, mecA, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Influenza Virus A/ B, Bordetella pertussis/Bordetella parapertussis (Bp/ Bpp), and Norovirus in 2005. SmartMix Our SmartMix product is produced with components produced and under a licensing agreement with Eppendorf AG under which we package and distribute a dry-formulated version of a polymerase product that has been optimized for use on the SmartCycler. The SmartMix product provides clinical laboratories with a general-use PCR enzyme reagent optimized for our products. Biothreat GeneXpert Module Our first product on the market for the GeneXpert platform was the GeneXpert module, which has been incorporated in the USPS BDS and is currently being sold for integration by partner companies into their systems. GeneXpert Anthrax Cartridge We currently offer one GeneXpert-test cartridge for the detection of anthrax. This cartridge is primarily being used for the detection of anthrax in the USPS BDS program, as well as being available for the general biothreat market. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our research and development efforts are focused on the development of key applications of the Genexpert and/or Smart Cycler platforms for the clinical molecular diagnostics market. Development of applications including Group B Streptococcus detection in vaginal and rectal specimens, Enterovirus detection in cerebrospinal fluid, and BCR/ABL transcript quantification in whole blood have been completed or are near completion. The development of a GeneXpert product for the detection of MRSA in nasal and wound swabs is underway. We have created a new R&D team in organic and nucleotide chemistry to develop and produce proprietary fluorescent dyes, quenchers, and modified bases, in order to shorten our development time and to enhance our ability to create products with fast time to results and optimal sensitivity. We also have programs to enhance the capabilities or our platforms in the areas of enhanced multiplexing (more answers per test) and user convenience. Our cartridge design supports our strategy of continually introducing new test cartridges over a period of time, expanding the panel of tests that can be implemented on an installed base of GeneXpert instruments. In addition to our own development efforts, we are working with collaborators to co-develop the methodologies and chemistries to be used in specific tests incorporated in these cartridges. We have devoted substantial financial and business resources to research and development efforts in the commercialization of the SmartCycler and GeneXpert platforms. Our research and development expenses for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $19.0 million, $15.9 million, and $15.3 million, respectively. 11 Table of Contents SALES We sell our products into the clinical molecular diagnostics, industrials and biothreat markets through both direct sales and through various other distribution channels. In the United States, we sell in the industrials market through our direct sales force, as well as through a non-exclusive distributor, Fisher Scientific Company L.L.C. (Fisher). We sell in the clinical molecular diagnostics market exclusively through our clinical sales force. In Europe, we sell primarily through distributors. In Japan and other parts of the world, we sell solely through distributors. Through Cepheid SA, our French subsidiary, we have established additional distributors in Europe, the Middle East, India and South Africa. We expect to continue to expand sales into other territories throughout the world by adding new distributors. By the end of 2005, we had 44 distributors representing Cepheid in 68 countries worldwide. Distribution and collaboration arrangements We are collaborating with strategic partners to distribute both the SmartCycler and GeneXpert products in selected markets. For the year ended December 31, 2005, product sales through distributors represented 14% of our total product sales (including instruments, reagents and disposables) as compared to 20% in 2004. We have entered into the following significant commercial collaborations and distribution arrangements: bioMerieux, Inc. In December 2003, we entered into an agreement for a strategic commercial relationship with bioMerieux for bioMerieux to develop DNA testing products using its proprietary Nucleic Acid Sequence-Based Amplification (NASBA) technology to be run on systems employing our SmartCycler and GeneXpert platforms. To date, bioMerieux has not commercialized a product based on our technology. Infectio Diagnostic, Inc. In November 2003, we entered into a series of agreements with Infectio Diagnostics, Inc. (IDI). IDI merged with GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. in 2004. GeneOhm Sciences, Inc. was acquired by Becton, Dickson and Company in February 2006. Under the agreements, we received non-exclusive worldwide, excluding Canada, distribution rights to IDI tests for GBS and MRSA that have been configured for use with the SmartCycler system. We also received a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing license to apply IDI proprietary genetic sequences for GBS and MRSA, in the development and commercialization of Cepheid tests to be used in the GeneXpert system. IDI received non-exclusive worldwide rights to distribute our SmartCycler system for use with IDI tests. Applied Biosystems Group. In October 2002, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Applied Biosystems to develop reagents for use in the USPS BDS, which was developed by the consortium led by Northrop Grumman Corporation. Under the agreement, reagents are manufactured by Applied Biosystems for packaging by us into our GeneXpert test cartridges and sold by us for use in the BDS. This agreement calls for the computed gross margin on sales of anthrax cartridges for the USPS BDS program to be equally shared between the two parties. Fisher Scientific Company L.L.C. Fisher has non exclusive rights to sell the SmartCycler under the Cepheid label and trade dress in the following markets in the United States: industrial research, environmental (excluding bio-threat), pharmaceutical quality control, in vitro fertilization, quality control and cosmetics quality control, and Fisher also has non-exclusive rights to sell the SmartCycler in Canada. This arrangement expires on May 31, 2006. U.S. government programs. In 2003, a Northrop Grumman-led consortium that includes Cepheid and other subcontractors developed the BDS for the USPS. This consortium was awarded a production contract wherein installations were completed at the end of 2005. In August 2005, we received a purchase order for an additional 2.3 million anthrax test cartridges, which we expect to complete shipments by the end of the fourth quarter of 2006. MANUFACTURING Our facilities and manufacturing processes are designed to comply with the quality standard set by the International Organization for Standardization and the FDA’s Quality System Regulations enabling us to market our systems in the clinical molecular diagnostics, industrial and biothreat testing markets worldwide. 12 Table of Contents In our manufacturing facilities, we assemble, calibrate and test our instruments and we produce reagents for use on our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems. We assemble our patented disposable reaction tubes on a custom, automated assembly line that is designed with an expandable capacity. We depend on suppliers for various components used in the manufacture of the SmartCycler system, the GeneXpert modules and system, disposable reaction tubes, and cartridges, some of which are our sole source for such components. We received ISO 9001 certification through Underwriters Laboratories Inc. in 2002. The ISO 9001 certification’s scope includes the design, manufacture and service of our DNA detection systems and tests. In addition, we received ISO 13485 certification in February 2003. The ISO 13485 certification is the Canadian certification required for product distribution. However, our facility has not yet been inspected by the FDA for compliance with the Quality System Regulations. COMPETITION We face intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our targeted application areas. These competitors include: • companies developing and marketing sequence detection systems for industrials research products; • healthcare companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers; • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; • companies developing drug discovery technologies; and • companies developing biothreat technologies. Several companies provide instruments and reagents for DNA amplification or detection. Applied Biosystems, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, BioRad and Stratagene sell systems integrating amplification and detection (sequence detection systems) to the commercial market. Idaho Technologies sells sequence detection systems to the military market. F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Abbott, and GenProbe sell large sequence detection systems, some with separate robotic batch DNA purification systems and sell reagents to the clinical molecular diagnostics market. Other companies, including Becton, Dickson and Company, Bayer and bioMerieux, offer molecular tests. We also face competition from both established and development-stage companies that continually enter these markets. Several companies are currently making or developing products that may or will compete with our products. Our competitors may succeed in developing, obtaining FDA approval for, or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our potential products or that render our technologies and potential products obsolete. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that prevent us from successfully commercializing our products. In order to compete effectively, we will need to demonstrate the advantages of our products over alternative well-established technologies and products. We will also need to demonstrate the potential economic value of our products relative to these technologies and products. In many instances, particularly in the clinical genetics assessment area, our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources, and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we have. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and tactical discounts and have greater name recognition. If we fail to compete effectively against these and other competitors, we could lose sales and our business will be harmed. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting sales of genetic and DNA analysis systems include the speed, integrated functionality and portability of the equipment, ease of use, the quality of the test results, price, market acceptance of the technology, regulatory approvals, particularly in the clinical molecular diagnostics market, and possession of the necessary intellectual property licenses for specific markets, collaborations and distributor relationships for specific markets and tests, and the selection of tests available for the system. We believe our products better integrate the various processes associated with DNA and RNA analysis than other currently available equipment, and that the speed, portability, flexibility, reliability and 13 Table of Contents ease of use of our products is competitive. Our sales are relatively small compared to those of many of our competitors, but we believe that the introduction of GeneXpert, our distributor and collaborative partner base, and securing high-profile contracts can help build our market acceptance. GOVERNMENT REGULATION In the clinical molecular diagnostics market, the FDA and competent authorities of other countries will generally regulate our products as medical devices. In particular, FDA regulations govern activities such as product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, premarket clearance or approval, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product failures and distribution. Some of our products, depending on their intended use, will require either premarket approval (PMA) or 510(k) clearance from the FDA prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to six months from submission, but can take longer. The premarket approval pathway is much more costly, lengthy, uncertain and generally takes from six months to two years or longer from submission. Products, such as the SmartCycler and the GeneXpert system, when used for clinical diagnostic purposes may require this approval. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant premarket clearance or premarket approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals, or criminal prosecution. To date, only the Strep B and MRSA tests developed by IDI for use on the SmartCycler have received FDA clearance. We and our collaborative partners have not sought approval or clearance from the FDA or any other governmental body for other tests for the SmartCycler or GeneXpert. However, we have completed clinical trials for our GeneXpert GBS test under an FDA approved investigational device exemption (IDE) protocol. Similarly, clinical trials for our GeneXpert Enterovirus test are nearing completion. In addition, our manufacturing facilities, where we assemble and produce the SmartCycler system and the GeneXpert system, cartridges and reagents (including class I ASRs) must meet the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. They are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. Our facilities are certified to ISO 13485:1996 (and we have been recommended for certification to ISO 13485:2003, which is now pending in Q1 2006) and CMDCAS to meet EU and Canadian requirements for IVD devices, respectively. We have CE marked the SmartCycler for IVD use in EU countries. For the industrials and biothreat markets, some of our products may not need FDA or other regulatory approval; however, all of our products will be produced under ISO 13485 and Quality System Regulations. We anticipate, however, the manufacturing, labeling, distribution and marketing of some or all of the diagnostic products under development or diagnostic products we may develop INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely upon a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We hold an exclusive license to key technologies from LLNL limited to the fields of nucleic acid analysis and ligand binding tests and subject to diligence and U.S. preference provisions with integrated optical detection. These technologies have resulted in three issued U.S. patents and two pending international counterpart patent applications. The LLNL technologies are the basis of our I-CORE module and encompass the key I-CORE features. As of December 31, 2005, we have an additional 28 issued or allowed U.S. patents on our disposable reaction tube, thermo cycling with optics, and disposable sample preparation cartridges. We have an additional 36 pending U.S. patent applications and corresponding international counterpart applications relating to our technologies. Our pending patent applications relate to our developing reagent capability as well as our I-CORE module, reaction tubes, lysing technology, nucleic acid concentration chip and microfluidic devices, and methods and systems as applied to sample processing and automated DNA analysis. 14 Table of Contents Our competitive success will be affected in part by our continued ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our inventions, technologies and discoveries, including intellectual property that we license. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over others’ applications or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements, licenses and other contractual provisions and technical measures to maintain and develop our competitive position with respect to intellectual property. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. For example, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the United States. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside of the United States. Our trade secrets could become known through other unforeseen means. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology. Our competitors may also develop similar products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. Furthermore, any efforts to enforce our proprietary rights could result in disputes and legal proceedings that could be costly and divert attention from our business. We could also be subject to third-party claims that we require additional licenses for our products, and such claims could interfere with our business. From time to time, third parties have contacted us regarding their intellectual property, whether to license intellectual property, or in some instances, alleging potential infringement. For example, Idaho Technology, Inc. and the University of Utah Research Foundation filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the District of Utah claiming that we infringe certain patents; however, this complaint has not yet been served on us. If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could face costly litigation, which could cause us to pay substantial damages and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products. Even if our products were determined not to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could incur substantial costs in defending any such claims. In April 2004, we entered into a patent license agreement with Applera Corporation, through ABI and its Celera Diagnostics joint venture, for a non-exclusive worldwide license to make, use, and sell our products incorporating technology covered by Applera Patents. We also entered into a patent license agreement with F. Hoffman-L Roche Ltd. (Roche), effective July 1, 2004, for a non-exclusive worldwide license to make, use, and sell our products incorporating technology covered by Roche patents. In September 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Abaxis, Inc., pursuant to which Abaxis granted us a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to certain Abaxis patents relating to lyophilization technology in accordance with the provisions specified in the agreement. In exchange for the license rights, we agreed to (i) make an upfront license payment, (ii) pay royalties during the term of the agreement and (iii) pay a yearly license maintenance fee during the term of the agreement, which fee will be creditable against any royalties due during such calendar year. In November 2005, Cepheid entered into a license agreement with DxS Limited (DxS), a private United Kingdom based company, pursuant to which DxS granted Cepheid a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to the DxS Scorpions patents and other intellectual property rights relating to its Scorpions technology for the real-time PCR detection of nucleic acid amplification. This amends a December 2004 agreement, which provided for license rights to develop and commercialize license technology in the environmental, veterinarian, forensics identity relationship testing, and agricultural fields. Under the Agreement, and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, Cepheid will be able to use the licensed rights to develop and sell test products incorporating the licensed technology in the human in vitro diagnostics field. We may require additional licenses for new products or product features. Such licenses could include additional substantial up-front payments, as well as ongoing royalties on product sales. 15 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had 265 full-time and contract employees worldwide. Approximately 78 employees were engaged in research and product development, of which 43 were in engineering and 35 in biotechnology. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations to be good. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website is located at www.cepheid.com. We make available free of charge on our web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those Reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information contained on our web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Cepheid. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not achieve profitability. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to have negative cash flow from operations through at least the end of 2006. We experienced net losses of approximately, $17.5 million in 2003, $13.8 million in 2004 and $13.6 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $107.5 million. Our ability to become profitable will depend on our ability to increase our revenues, which is subject to a number of factors including our ability to successfully penetrate the clinical market, our ability to successfully market the GeneXpert system and develop effective GeneXpert tests, the extent of our participation in the USPS BDS program and the operating parameters of the BDS program, which will affect the rate of our consumable products sold, the success of our other collaborative programs, our ability to compete effectively against current and future competitors, global economic and political conditions and the impact of the new accounting for share-based payments such as stock options. Our ability to become profitable also depends on our expense levels and product gross margin, which are also influenced by a number of factors, including the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products, the continued progress of our research and development of potential products, our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, license fees or royalties we may be required to pay, and the potential need to acquire licenses to new technology or to use our technology in new markets, which could require us to pay unanticipated license fees and royalties in connection with these licenses. Our expansion efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenues to offset higher expenses. These expenses, among other things, may cause our net income and working capital to decrease. If we fail to grow our revenue and manage our expenses and improve our product gross margin, we may never achieve profitability. If we fail to do so, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our participation in the USPS Biohazard Detection System program and other similar programs may not result in predictable contracts or revenues. Our participation in the USPS BDS program or any similar government programs involves significant uncertainties related to governmental decision-making and timing of deployment, and is highly sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and budgets. The world geopolitical climate in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks has created substantial public interest in the BDS. However, budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies such as the USPS, sometimes without advanced notice. We cannot be certain that actual funding and operating parameters, or product purchases, will occur at currently expected levels or in the currently expected timeframe. In this and any similar future programs, there may be no obligation on the part of the eventual customer to buy a minimum number of units or tests, so, even though we have been awarded a production contract, we may be subject to future spending patterns and budgetary cycles. Furthermore, if we participate in any other collaborations bidding for government contracts, the bidding and evaluation process could be lengthy and involve significant expense, and may not result in a contract or a contract with acceptable terms. Accordingly, our participation in the USPS BDS program and other similar programs is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and may not yield the expected revenues. If we cannot successfully commercialize our products, our business could be harmed. If our tests for use on the SmartCycler and GeneXpert platforms do not gain market acceptance, we will be unable to generate significant sales, which will prevent us from achieving profitability. We are in the 17 Table of Contents process of researching and developing several tests, including MRSA. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of our products, including: • timely development of a menu of tests and reagents; • the results of clinical trials needed to support any regulatory approvals of our tests; • our ability to obtain requisite FDA or other regulatory clearances or approvals for our tests under development on a timely basis; • demand for the tests and reagents we are able to introduce; • the timing of market entry for various tests for the GeneXpert and the SmartCycler systems; • our ability to convince our potential customers of the advantages and economic value of our systems and tests over competing technologies and products; • the breadth of our test menu relative to competitors; • the extent and success of our marketing and sales efforts; and • publicity concerning our systems and tests. In particular, we believe that the success of our business will depend in large part on our ability to commercialize our products for the clinical diagnostic market. Our current reliance on revenues from the USPS BDS program has resulted in substantial revenue concentrations in recent periods. We believe that successfully building our business in the clinical market is critical to our long-term goals and success. We have limited experience operating in the clinical market and, as a result, we have limited ability to forecast future demand for our products in this market. In addition, we have committed substantial funds to licenses that are required for us to enter the clinical market. If we cannot successfully penetrate the clinical market to exploit these licenses, ongoing payments that we have agreed to make under them could significantly harm our business and operating results in future periods. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of some of our products. In the clinical market, our products may generally be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries. In particular, FDA regulations govern activities such as product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, premarket clearance or approval, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product failures and distribution. Some of our products, depending on their intended use, will require either premarket approval (PMA), or 510(k) clearance from the FDA prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to six months from submission, but can take longer. The premarket approval process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain and generally takes from one to two years or longer from submission. Clinical trials are generally required to support both PMA and 510(k) submissions. Certain of our products for use on our SmartCycler and GeneXpert systems, when used for clinical purposes, may require premarket approval and all such tests will most likely, at a minimum, require 510(k) clearance. We are in the process of conducting clinical trials for several of our proposed test products and are planning clinical trials for other proposed products. Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, the commencement or completion of any clinical trials may be delayed or halted for any number of reasons, including product performance, changes in intended use, changes in medical practice and issues with evaluator Institutional Review Boards. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to grant premarket clearance or premarket approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals, or criminal prosecution. To date, only the GBS and MRSA tests developed by Infectio Diagnostics, Inc. (IDI) for use on the SmartCycler have received FDA clearance. Approval or clearance from the FDA or any other governmental body has not been sought for other products for the SmartCycler or GeneXpert. If the FDA were to disagree with our regulatory assessment and 18 Table of Contents conclude that approval or clearance is necessary to market the products, we could be forced to cease marketing the products and seek approval or clearance. With regard to those future products for which we will seek 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA, any failure or material delay to obtain such clearance or approval could harm our business. In addition, it is possible that the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products and could harm our business. Our manufacturing facilities, where we assemble and produce the SmartCycler system and the GeneXpert system, cartridges and reagents, are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. For example, these facilities are subject to Quality System Regulations (QSR) of the FDA and are subject to annual inspection and licensing by the State of California. If we fail to maintain these facilities in accordance with the QSR requirements, international quality standards or other regulatory requirements, our manufacturing process could be suspended or terminated, which would harm our business. We rely on licenses of key technology from third parties and will require additional licenses for many of our new product candidates. We rely on third-party licenses to be able to sell many of our products, and we could lose any of our third-party licenses for a number of reasons, including, for example, early terminations of such agreements due to breaches or alleged breaches by either party to the agreement. If we are unable to enter into a new agreement for licensed technologies, either on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, we may be unable to sell some of our products or access some geographic or industry markets. We also need to introduce new products and product features in order to market our products to a broader customer base and grow our revenues, and many new products and product features could require us to obtain additional licenses and pay additional license fees and royalties. Furthermore, for some markets, we intend to manufacture reagents and tests for use on our instruments. We believe that manufacturing reagents and developing tests for our instruments is important to our business and growth prospects, but will require additional licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to develop, manufacture and sell products, and our strategic plans and growth, could be impaired if we are unable to obtain these licenses or if these licenses are terminated or expire and cannot be renewed. We may not be able to obtain or renew licenses for a given product or product feature, or for some reagents, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Furthermore, some of our competitors have rights to technologies and reagents that we do not have, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage in certain circumstances and could adversely affect our performance. If we acquire companies, products or technologies, we may face risks associated with those acquisitions. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we intend to acquire or make other investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefit of any acquisition or investment. If we acquire companies or technologies, we will likely face risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including difficulties in the integration of these operations and services of an acquired company, integration of acquired technology with our products, diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses and impairment charges if future acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies, products or technologies that we may acquire, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired intangible assets. 19 Table of Contents Concerns about other national and international crises may increase public interest in products such as ours. Concerns about recent perceived international crises, such as the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), avian influenza, or bird flu, or West Nile viruses may increase public interest in products or technologies such as ours, even if there are no commercially available products for such applications. This increased interest could affect the market price of our common stock, despite the fact that we have not achieved any material revenues from these applications. In addition, public concern over these issues could wane over time, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any products that we may develop to address any such concerns will result in any material revenues to us. We expect that our operating results will fluctuate significantly, and any failure to meet financial expectations may result in a decline in our stock price. We expect that our quarterly operating results will fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, such as those described elsewhere in this section, many of which are beyond our control. Because our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indicator of our future performance. Our operating results may be affected by the inability of some of our customers to consummate anticipated purchases of our products, whether due to changes in internal priorities or, in the case of governmental customers, problems with the appropriations process and variability and timing of orders, or manufacturing inefficiencies. If revenue declines in a quarter, whether due to a delay in recognizing expected revenue, unexpected costs or otherwise, our results of operations will be harmed because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. In particular, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses are not significantly affected by variations in revenue. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed and our ability to generate revenue could be diminished. Our revenues and other operating results will depend in large part on our ability to manufacture and assemble our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner. Any interruptions we experience in the manufacturing or shipping of our products could delay our ability to recognize revenues in a particular quarter. We have limited experience in manufacturing large volumes of products and manufacturing problems can and do arise or we may be unable to adequately scale-up manufacturing in a timely manner or on a commercially reasonable basis if we experience increased demand. In the past, we have experienced problems and delays in production that have impacted our product yield and caused delays in our ability to ship finished products and we may experience such delays in the future. We may not be able to react quickly enough to ship products and recognize anticipated revenues for a given period if we experience significant delays in the manufacturing process. If we are unable to manufacture our products consistently and on a timely basis, our revenues from product sales, gross margins and our other operating results will be materially and adversely affected. If certain single source suppliers fail to deliver key product components in a timely manner, our manufacturing ability would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on certain single source suppliers that supply components used in the manufacture of the SmartCycler system, the GeneXpert modules and system, and our disposable reaction tubes and cartridges. If we need alternative sources for key component parts for any reason, these component parts may not be immediately available to us. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and production of these components may be delayed. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Shipments of affected products have been limited or delayed as a result of such problems in the past, and similar problems could occur in the future. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture 20 Table of Contents of our products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships or force us to curtail or cease operations. If certain of our products fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payers, our ability to sell products in the clinical market would be harmed. Our ability to sell our products in the clinical market will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for tests using our products will be available from: • government health care programs and health administration authorities; • private health coverage insurers; • managed care organizations; and • other organizations. There are efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. Additionally, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of our products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using our products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products and whether adequate third-party coverage will be available. If our competitors and potential competitors develop superior products and technologies, our competitive position and results of operations would suffer. We face intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our target markets. These competitors include: • companies developing and marketing sequence detection systems for industrial research products; • healthcare companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers; • diagnostic companies; and • companies developing or offering biothreat detection technologies. Several companies provide instruments and reagents for DNA amplification or detection. Applied Biosystems, Roche, Bio-Rad Laboratories and Stratagene sell systems integrating DNA amplification and detection (sequence detection systems) to the commercial market. Idaho Technologies sells sequence detection systems to the military market. Roche, Abbott Laboratories and GenProbe sell large sequence detection systems, some with separate robotic batch DNA purification systems and sell reagents to the clinical market. Other companies, including Becton, Dickson and Company, Bayer and bioMerieux, offer molecular tests. If our products do not perform as expected, or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, we could experience lost revenue, delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality molecular test systems. We believe that customers in the industrial, biothreat and clinical markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. Our reputation and the public image of our products or technologies may be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected; or our products are perceived as difficult to use. Despite testing, defects or errors could occur in our products or technologies. For example, in July 2005, we notified customers of a software bug in connection with the diagnostic software used in conjunction with our SmartCycler system and provided replacement software to eliminate this bug. Furthermore, with respect to the BDS program, our products are incorporated into larger systems that are built and delivered by others; we cannot control many aspects of the final product. 21 Table of Contents In the future, if we experience a material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. Any failure in the overall BDS, even if it is unrelated to our products, could harm our business. Even after any underlying concerns or problems are resolved, any widespread concerns regarding our technology or any manufacturing defects or performance errors in our products could result in lost revenue, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, increased service and warranty costs, and claims against us. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our product and incur significant liabilities. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if our technologies or systems are alleged to have caused harm or do not perform in accordance with specifications, in part because our products are used for sensitive applications. We cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product liability lawsuit brought against us. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • costs of related litigation; and • substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. If we become the subject of a successful product liability lawsuit, we could incur substantial liabilities, which could harm our business. We rely on relationships with collaborative partners and other third parties for development, supply and marketing of products and potential products, and such collaborative partners or other third parties could fail to perform sufficiently. We believe that our success in penetrating our target markets depends in part on our ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies. Relying on collaborative relationships is risky to our future success because, among other things: • our collaborative partners may not devote sufficient resources to the success of our collaboration; • our collaborative partners may not obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; • our collaborative partners may be acquired by another company and decide to terminate our collaborative partnership or become insolvent; • our collaborative partners may develop technologies or components competitive with our products; • components developed by collaborators could fail to meet specifications, possibly causing us to lose potential projects and subjecting us to liability; • disagreements with collaborators could result in the termination of the relationship or litigation; • collaborators may not have sufficient capital resources; • collaborators may pursue tests or other products that will not generate significant volume for us, but may consume significant research and development and manufacturing resources; • our existing collaborations may preclude us from entering into additional future arrangements; or • we may not be able to negotiate future collaborative arrangements, or renewals of existing collaborative agreements, on acceptable terms. 22 Table of Contents Because these and other factors may be beyond our control, the development or commercialization of our products may delayed or otherwise adversely affected. If we or any of our collaborative partners terminate a collaborative arrangement, we may be required to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization or we may need to cancel some development programs, which could adversely affect our product pipeline and business. If our direct selling efforts for our products fail, our business expansion plans could suffer and our ability to generate revenue will be diminished. We have a relatively small sales force compared to our competitors. We intend to expand our direct sales force in the future. Even if we are successful in increasing the size of our sales force, it may take some period of time before any new sales personnel become effective. If our direct sales force is not successful, we may not be able to increase market awareness and sales of our products. If our distributor relationships are not successful, our ability to market and sell our products would be harmed and our financial performance will be adversely affected. We depend on relationships with distributors for the marketing and sales of our products in the industrial and clinical markets in various geographic regions and we have a limited ability to influence their efforts. Product sales through distributors represented 14% and 20% of total product sales for 2005 and 2004, respectively. While sales through distributors accounted for a smaller percentage of our total revenues in recent periods because of the increase in direct sales in connection with the BDS program, we expect to continue to rely substantially on our distributor relationships for sales into other markets or geographic regions, which is key to our long-term growth potential. We also rely on various distributors for our sales of SmartCycler in Europe, China, Mexico and other parts of the world. Relying on distributors for our sales and marketing could harm our business for various reasons, including: • agreements with distributors may terminate prematurely due to disagreements or may result in litigation between the partners; • we may not be able to renew existing distributor agreements on acceptable terms; and • our distributors may not devote sufficient resources to the sale of products; • our distributors may be unsuccessful in marketing our products; • our existing relationships with distributors may preclude us from entering into additional future arrangements; and • we may not be able to negotiate future distributor agreements on acceptable terms. We may be subject to third-party claims that we require additional licenses for our products and we could face costly litigation, which could cause us to pay substantial damages and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products. Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, claims of which appear to overlap in many cases. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty regarding the extent of patent protection and infringement. Companies may have pending patent applications (which are typically confidential for the first eighteen months following filing) that cover technologies we incorporate in our products. As a result, we may be subjected to substantial damages for past infringement or be required to modify our products or stop selling them if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Moreover, from time to time, we receive correspondence and other communications from companies that ask us to evaluate the need for a license of patents they hold, and indicating or suggesting that we need a license to their patents in order to offer our products and services or to conduct our business operations. In addition, Idaho Technology, Inc. and University of Utah Research Foundation filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the District of Utah claiming that we infringe certain patents; however, this complaint has not yet been served on us. If the plaintiffs determine to pursue this action, we intend to 23 Table of Contents vigorously defend ourselves. Any litigation related to claims of patent infringement could consume our resources and lead to significant damages, royalty payments or an injunction on the sale of certain products. Any additional licenses to patented technology could obligate us to pay substantial additional royalties, which could adversely impact our product costs and harm our business. If we fail to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors could use our technology to develop competing products and our business will suffer. Our competitive success will be affected in part by our continued ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our inventions, technologies and discoveries, including our intellectual property that includes technologies that we license. Our ability to do so will depend on, among other things, complex legal and factual questions. We have patents related to some technology and have licensed some of our technology under patents of others. We cannot assure you that our patents and licenses will successfully preclude others from using our technology. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over others’ applications or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements, licenses and other contractual provisions and technical measures to maintain and develop our competitive position with respect to intellectual property. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. For example, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the United States. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside of the United States. Our trade secrets could become known through other unforeseen means. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology. Our competitors may also develop similar products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. Furthermore, any efforts to enforce our proprietary rights could result in disputes and legal proceedings that could be costly and divert attention from our business. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some, if not all, of our intellectual property rights, and thereby impair our ability to compete. We rely on patents to protect a large part of our intellectual property. To protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. They would also put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. We may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in our industry are generally uncertain. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, would be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Any public announcements related to these suits could cause our stock price to decline. Our sales cycle, particularly in the industrial market and clinical molecular diagnostics market, can be lengthy, which can cause variability and unpredictability in our operating results. The sales cycles for our products, particularly in the industrial market and the clinical molecular diagnostics market, can be lengthy, which makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues in a given period, and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Sales of 24 Table of Contents our products to the industrial market often involve purchasing decisions by large public and private institutions, and any purchases can require many levels of pre-approval. In addition, many of these sales depend on these institutions receiving research grants from various federal agencies, which grants vary considerably from year to year in both amount and timing due to the political process. As a result, we may expend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or we may not be able to complete transactions on the schedule anticipated. Our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs. Our international operations are subject to a number of difficulties and special costs, including: • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • potential for exchange and currency risks; • potential difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties and expense in enforcing intellectual property rights; • business risks, including fluctuations in demand for our products and the cost and effort to conduct international operations and travel abroad to promote international distribution, and global economic conditions; • multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; and • political and economic instability. We intend to expand our international sales and marketing activities, including through our European subsidiary, and enter into relationships with additional international distribution partners. We may not be able to attract international distribution partners that will be able to market our products effectively. Our international operations could also increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. If we cannot comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our products and services or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, foreign countries may impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business. The nature of some of our products may also subject us to export control regulation by the US Department of State and the Department of Commerce. Violations of these regulations can result in monetary penalties and denial of export privileges. Our SmartCycler and GeneXpert products will be distributed in throughout Europe under the CE IVD mark, and we intend to introduce additional products under the CE IVD mark as we pursue our expansion plans. Our use of the CE IVD mark is based on self declarations of conformity with stated directives and standards of the European Parliament and Council and is subject to review by competent authorities in Europe. To date, our products and use of self-declarations have not been reviewed by any competent authority. If our products are reviewed, a competent authority may find that our products do not comply with stated directives and standards. Any finding of non-conformity could prevent or otherwise adversely affect our ability to distribute products in Europe and result in other consequences, including both criminal sanctions, such as the imposition of fines or penalties, and civil claims for damages from persons suffering damage as a result of the non-conformity. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to retain key members of our staff our ability to conduct and expand our business would be impaired. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of services of any of these persons could seriously harm our product development and commercialization efforts. In addition, we will require additional skilled personnel in areas such as microbiology, clinical and sales and marketing. Attracting, retaining and training personnel with the requisite skills remains challenging, and, as general economic conditions improve, is becoming increasingly competitive, particularly in the Silicon Valley area of California where our main office is located. If at any point we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to match our growth, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. If we become subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials, we could incur significant cost and time to comply. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including biological hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. We may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. OSHA or the EPA may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that would have a material adverse effect on our operations. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. We could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options will adversely affect our results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standard Board issued a new statement, which requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized as expense in the financial statements based on their fair values. The new rules will be effective for us January 1, 2006. This change will materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations. If a catastrophe strikes our manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and we would experience lost revenue. Our manufacturing facilities are located in Sunnyvale, California. Although we have business interruption insurance, our facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Various types of disasters, including earthquakes, fires, floods and acts of terrorism, may affect our manufacturing facilities. Earthquakes are of particular significance since the manufacturing facilities are located in an earthquake-prone area. In the event our existing manufacturing facilities or equipment is affected by man-made or natural disasters, we may be unable to manufacture products for sale, meet customer demands or sales projections. If our manufacturing operations were curtailed or ceased, it would seriously harm our business. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and such capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, which include the need to develop new products or enhance existing products, conduct clinical trials, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Equity and debt financing, however, might not be available when needed or, if available, 26 Table of Contents might not be available on terms satisfactory to us. In addition, to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. In addition, these securities may be sold at a discount from the market price of our common stock, and may include right preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Compliance with regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting is complex and expensive. Many laws and regulations, notably those adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the SEC and the NASDAQ National Market, impose obligations on public companies, such as ours, which have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Our implementation of these reforms and enhanced new disclosures necessitates substantial management time and oversight and requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 