ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The complex, dynamic and international scope of our business overall, and of our operations in particular regions and countries, involves a number of significant risks. If we cannot or do not successfully manage the risks associated with the services we provide, our operations in particular regions and countries or the international scope of our operations, our business, operating results and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. One of the challenges of a global business such as ours is to be able to determine in a sophisticated manner the enterprise risks that in fact exist and to monitor continuously those that develop over time as a result of changes in the business, laws to which we are subject and the other factors we discuss below. We must then determine how best to employ available resources to prevent, mitigate and/or minimize those risks that have the greatest potential (1) to occur and (2) to cause significant damage from an operational, financial or reputational standpoint. An important dynamic that we must also consider and appropriately manage is how much and what types of commercial insurance to obtain and how much potential liability may remain uninsured consistent with the infrastructure that is in place within the organization to identify and properly manage it. While we attempt to approach these issues in an increasingly sophisticated and coordinated manner across the globe, our failure to identify or effectively manage the enterprise risks inherent within our business could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. We govern our enterprise risk program primarily through our Global Operating Committee, which is chaired by our Global Chief Operating Officer and includes the Chief Operating Officers of our four reported business segments and the leaders from certain corporate staff groups such as Finance, Legal, Insurance, Human Resources and Information Technology. The Global Operating Committee coordinates its enterprise risk activities with our Internal Audit function, which performs an annual risk assessment of our business in order to determine where to focus its auditing efforts. Representatives of our Global Operating Committee report to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The previous two years have proven to be extraordinarily negative ones for the global economy and for most business enterprises worldwide. The severe restrictions on credit availability, the additional cost of credit to the extent it is available and the unprecedented 12 Table of Contents collapses of major financial institutions, among other economic and geo-political events, have substantially increased the enterprise risk profiles of commercial organizations, often in ways that are unprecedented or not readily foreseeable. These events have significantly impacted the global real estate markets, reducing the volume and pace of commercial real estate transactions and negatively impacting real estate pricing and leasing in many countries and markets. The potential consequences of the financial and economic crisis on virtually all business organizations are significant and complex, and may include to one degree or another, among others, materially lower earnings, inability to obtain necessary credit, inability to satisfy covenant obligations in debt and other agreements, inability to meet financial obligations and the inability to retain key staff members. Governments have responded aggressively to the crisis, although in different ways from one country to another, but we do not yet know what the ultimate outcome of those efforts will be or any unintended consequences that may result (for example, with respect to currency fluctuations, taxes, interest rates, budget deficits, trade restrictions, the price of commodities and the potential for deflation or inflation in prices, among many others). In the latter half of 2009, we have seen an improvement in world stock markets and there appears to be increasing confidence and stabilization in various economies, some of which have begun to grow again after significant recessions. However, it is also the case that market uncertainties and credit restrictions have continued into 2010, and it is inherently difficult to make accurate predictions about when we will start to see sustainable improvements in the commercial real estate markets, which are impacted by macro movements of the financial markets and many other factors, including the stock, bond and derivatives markets, over which we have no control. We are, however, aggressively attempting to stay current on the dynamic global marketplace in order to understand and manage the additional enterprise risks that we inevitably will continue to confront. This section reflects our views concerning the most significant risks we believe our business faces, although we do not purport to include every possible risk from which we might sustain a loss. For purposes of the following analysis and discussion, we generally group the risks we face according to four principal categories: • External Market Risk Factors; • Internal Operational Risk Factors; • Financial Risk Factors; and • Human Resources Risk Factors. Some of the risks we identify could appropriately be discussed in more than one category, but we have chosen the one we view as primary. We do not necessarily present the risks below in their order of significance, the relative likelihood that we will experience a loss or the magnitude of any such loss. We also do not attempt to discuss the various significant efforts we employ to attempt to mitigate or avoid the risks we identify, although we believe we have a robust program to do so in a systematic way. External Market Risk Factors GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND REAL ESTATE MARKET CONDITIONS CAN HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. We have experienced in past years, are currently experiencing, and expect in the future to be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdown or recession, and corresponding declines in the demand for real estate and related services, within the markets in which we operate. The current economic recession has been extraordinary for its worldwide scope, its severity, its impact on major financial institutions and the extent of governmental stimulative and regulatory responses, among other aspects. Additionally, the speed with which markets change, both positively and negatively, has accelerated due to the increased global interconnectedness resulting from the immediacy of information availability and flows, among other reasons, and this has added to the challenges of anticipating and quickly adapting to changes in business and revenue, particularly since real estate transactions are inherently complicated and longer-term in nature. Real estate markets tend to be cyclical and related to the condition of the economy or, at least, to the perceptions of investors and users as to the relevant economic outlook. For example, corporations may be hesitant to expand space or enter into long-term commitments if they are concerned about the economic environment. Corporations that are under financial pressure for any reason, or are attempting to more aggressively manage their expenses, may reduce the size of their workforces, permit more of their staff to work from home offices and/or seek corresponding reductions in office space and related management services. Negative economic conditions and declines in the demand for real estate and related services in several markets or in significant markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including as a result of the following factors: • Decline in Acquisition and Disposition Activity A general decline in acquisition and disposition activity can lead to a reduction in fees and commissions for arranging such transactions, as well as in fees and commissions for arranging financing for acquirers. Restrictions in the availability of credit in the global financial markets, and the various other well-publicized business dislocations that have resulted from the overall financial crisis, have significantly reduced the volume and pace of commercial real estate transactions and have also negatively impacted real estate pricing as a general matter in many countries. 13 Table of Contents Accordingly, our transaction-based Capital Markets and Hotels businesses have been significantly impacted by the global credit crisis. Revenue from Capital Markets and Hotels declined 43% in 2008 and 36% in 2009. We believe we have continued to gain market share in many of the markets in which we compete, but the additional transaction volumes from an increase in market share have not fully offset the overall declines in these markets. If the current economic conditions continue for an extended period or significantly worsen, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. • Decline in the Real Estate Values and Performance, Leasing Activity and Rental Rates A general decline in the value and performance of real estate and in rental rates can lead to a reduction in investment management fees (a significant portion of which is generally based upon the performance of investments and net asset values) and the value of the co-investments we make with our investment management clients or merchant banking investments we have made for our own account. Additionally, such declines can lead to a reduction in fees and commissions that are based upon the value of, or revenue produced by, the properties with respect to which services are provided, including fees and commissions (1) for property management and valuations, (2) generated by our Capital Markets, Hotels and other businesses for arranging acquisitions, dispositions and financings and (3) for arranging leasing transactions. These declines can also lead to an unwillingness or inability of clients to make new (or honor existing) capital commitments to funds sponsored by our investment management business, which can result in a decline of both investment management fees and incentive fees, and can also restrict our ability to employ capital for new investments in current funds or establish new funds. A general decline in the value and performance of real estate has impacted, and could continue to significantly impact, the value of our own co-investments. During 2009, for example, we recognized certain impairment charges for our co-investments due primarily to a decline in the value of the underlying real estate investments. Historically, a significant decline in real estate values in a given market has also tended to result in increases in litigation regarding advisory and valuation work done prior to the decline. Many of the markets in which we compete have been experiencing significant declines in real estate prices and rental rates and we are unable to predict accurately the extent to which those declines will continue or for how long. • Decline in Value of Real Estate Securities A general decline in the value of real estate securities (for example, real estate investment trusts, or “REITs”) will have a negative effect on the value of the portfolios that our LaSalle Investment Management Securities business manages, and any securities held in accounts that LaSalle Investment Management manages, and therefore the fees we earn on assets under management. In addition, a general decline in the value of real estate securities could negatively impact the amount of money that investors are willing to allocate to real estate securities and the pace of engaging new investor clients. • Cyclicality in the Real Estate Markets; Lag in Recovery Relative to Broader Markets Cyclicality in the real estate markets may lead to cyclicality in our earnings and significant volatility in our stock price, which in recent years has been highly sensitive to market perception of the global economy generally and our industry specifically. Real estate markets are also thought to “lag” the broader economy, meaning that even when underlying economic fundamentals improve in a given market, it may take additional time for these improvements to translate into strength in the real estate markets. This may be exacerbated in the current global market situation as banks may be delaying their resolution of commercial real estate assets whose values are less than their associated loans in order to avoid associated accounting write-offs. • Effect of Changes in Non-Real Estate Markets Changes in non-real estate markets can also affect our business. For example, strength in the equity markets, which increased markedly during the second-half of 2009, can lead certain investors to lower the level of capital allocated to real estate, which in turn can mean that our ability to generate fees from the operation of our investment management business will be negatively impacted. Strength in the equity markets can also negatively impact the performance of real estate as an asset class, which in turn means that the incentive fees relating to the performance of our investment funds will be negatively impacted. On the other hand, weakness in the equity markets relative to real estate can make real estate investments too great of a proportion of the portfolios of certain investors, such as pension funds and endowments, which as a result may switch out of real estate in order to rebalance their portfolios due to the so-called “denominator effect.” REAL ESTATE SERVICES AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. We provide a broad range of commercial real estate and investment management services, and there is significant competition on an international, regional and local level with respect to many of these services and in commercial real estate services generally. Depending on the service, we face competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers, accounting firms, technology firms, consulting firms, firms providing outsourcing of various types (including technology, catering and building products) and companies bringing their real estate services in-house (any of which may be a global, regional or local firm). Many of our competitors are local or regional firms, which, although substantially smaller in overall size, may be larger in a specific local or regional market. Some of our competitors have expanded the services they offer in an attempt to gain additional business. Some may be providing outsourced facilities management services in order to sell products to clients (such as HVAC systems) that we do not offer. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and more established relationships 14 Table of Contents with their customers and suppliers than we have. Larger or better-capitalized competitors may be able to respond faster to the need for technological changes, price their services more aggressively, compete more effectively for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions more easily, develop innovative products more effectively and generally compete more aggressively for market share. New competitors or alliances among competitors that increase their ability to service clients could emerge and gain market share, develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services we offer. In order to respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may have to lower our prices or loosen contractual terms (such as liability limitations), which may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profit margins. As we are in a consolidating industry, there exists the inherent risk that competitive firms may be more successful than we are at growing through merger and acquisition activity. While we have successfully grown organically and through a series of acquisitions, sourcing and completing acquisitions are complex and sensitive activities and there is no assurance that we will be able to continue our acquisition activity in the future at the same pace as we have in the past, particularly given the recent market declines and credit contractions. In 2009, we did not make any material new acquisitions. The severe global economic downturn may increase instability at our competitors and this may lead to a willingness on their part to engage in aggressive pricing or advertising in order to maintain market shares or client relationships. If this occurs, it will increase the competitive risks we face although it will differ from one competitor to another given their different positions within the marketplace and their different financial situations. We are substantially dependent on long-term client relationships and on revenue received for services under various service agreements. Many of these agreements may be canceled by the client for any reason with as little as 30 to 60 days’ notice, as is typical in the industry. In this competitive market, if we are unable to maintain these relationships or are otherwise unable to retain existing clients and develop new clients, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We believe that the global economic downturn has led to additional pricing pressure from clients as they themselves come under financial pressure, participate in governmental bail-out programs or file for bankruptcy or insolvency protection, as some significant clients have already done. Given the value and premium status of our brand, which is one of our most important assets, an inherent risk in our business is that we may fail to successfully differentiate the scope and quality of our service and product offerings from those of our competitors, or that we may fail to sufficiently innovate or develop improved products or services that will be attractive to our clients. Additionally, given the rigors of the competitive marketplace in which we operate, there is the risk that we may not be able to continue to find ways to operate more cost-effectively, including by achieving economies of scale, or that we will be limited in our ability to further reduce the costs required to operate on a globally coordinated platform. THE SEASONALITY OF OUR IOS BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO RISKS. Within our Investor and Occupier Services business, our revenue and profits tend to be significantly higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year than in the first two quarters. This is a result of a general focus in the real estate industry on completing or documenting transactions by calendar-year-end and the fact that certain expenses are constant through the year. Historically, we have reported an operating loss or a relatively small profit in the first quarter and then increasingly larger profits during each of the following three quarters, excluding the recognition of investment-generated performance fees and co-investment equity gains (both of which can be particularly unpredictable). The seasonality of our business makes it difficult to determine during the course of the year whether plan results will be achieved, and thus to adjust to changes in expectations. Additionally, negative economic or other conditions that arise at a time when they impact performance in the fourth quarter, such as the particular timing of when larger transactions close or changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, may have a more significant impact than if they occurred earlier in the year. To the extent we are not able to identify and adjust for changes in expectations or we are confronted with negative conditions that impact inordinately on the fourth quarter of a year, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. As a result of growth in our property management and integrated facilities management business and other services related to the growth of outsourcing of corporate real estate services, there has been somewhat less seasonality in our revenue and profits during the past few years than there was historically, but we believe that some level of seasonality will always be inherent in our industry and outside of our control. Although we continued to experience a level of seasonality in 2009 that was similar to previous years, we are unable to predict whether the global economic downturn, which has led to unprecedented market disruptions as well as unprecedented levels of government intervention, will result in any overall changes to the marketplace that will have an effect on the historical seasonality of our business in 2010 and beyond. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC INSTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY: PROTECTIONISM; TERRORIST ACTIVITIES; HEALTH EPIDEMICS. We operate in approximately 60 countries with varying degrees of political and economic stability and transparency. For example, certain Asian, Eastern European and South American countries have experienced serious political and economic instability within the past few years, and such instability will likely continue to arise from time to time in countries in which we have operations. It is difficult for us to predict where or when a significant change in the political leadership or regime within a given country may occur, or what the implications of such a change will be on our operations given that legislative, tax and business environments can be altered quickly and dramatically. For example, in 2009 there was an unusual level of legislative activity in the United States and certain 15 Table of Contents countries in Europe, although we do not yet know what ultimate changes, if any, there may be to financial, tax, healthcare, governance and other laws or how they may directly affect our business. As a result, our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course and our willingness to commit new resources or investments may be affected or disrupted in one way or another, with corresponding reductions in revenue, increases in taxes and more aggressive taxation policies, increases in other expenses (such as with respect to employee healthcare), restrictions on repatriating funds, difficulties in recruiting staff or other material adverse effects. It is possible that the global economic downturn will exacerbate these issues since, for example, high unemployment might lead to civil unrest and significant political instability in certain countries. Under current economic conditions there may be a growing movement by governments to protectionist policies which favor local firms over foreign firms or which restrict cross-border capital flows. This could affect our ability to utilize and benefit from our global platform and integrated business model. The global downturn has also significantly added to the deficit spending of certain governments in countries where we do business and has called into question the creditworthiness of some countries, as the result of which it is difficult to predict what the consequences to our business may be from these situations. In addition, terrorist activities have escalated in recent years and at times have affected cities in which we operate. The 2008 terrorist attack in Mumbai, India, where we have a presence, is an example. To the extent that similar terrorist activities continue to occur, they may adversely affect our business because they tend to target the same type of high-profile urban areas in which we do business. Health epidemics that affect the general conduct of business in one or more urban areas (including as the result of travel restrictions and the inability to conduct face-to-face meetings), such as occurred in the past from SARS or may occur in the future from an avian or H1N1 flu or other type of outbreak, can also adversely affect the volume of business transactions, real estate markets and the cost of operating real estate or providing real estate services, and may therefore adversely affect our results. INFRASTRUCTURE DISRUPTIONS. Our ability to conduct a global business may be adversely impacted by disruptions to the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which they are located. This may include disruptions involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Jones Lang LaSalle or third parties with which we conduct business, or disruptions as the result of natural disasters (such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods), political instability, general labor strikes or turmoil or terrorist attacks. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events affecting only the buildings in which we operate (such as fires), or as a result of events with a broader impact on the cities where those buildings are located (including, potentially, the longer-term effects of global climate change). Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including Chicago, London, Singapore and Sydney, work in close proximity to each other in one or more buildings. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. The infrastructure disruptions we describe above may also disrupt our ability to manage real estate for clients or may adversely affect the value of real estate investments we make on behalf of clients. The buildings we manage for clients, which include some of the world’s largest office properties and retail centers, are used by numerous people daily. As a result, fires, earthquakes, floods, other natural disasters, defects and terrorist attacks can result in significant loss of life, and, to the extent we are held to have been negligent in connection with our management of the affected properties, we could incur significant financial liabilities and reputational harm. The occurrence of natural disasters and terrorist attacks can also significantly increase the availability and/or cost of commercial insurance policies covering real estate, both for our own business and for those clients whose properties we manage and who may purchase their insurance through the insurance buying programs we make available to them. There can be no assurance that the disaster recovery and crisis management procedures we employ will suffice in any particular situation to avoid a significant loss. Given that our staff is increasingly mobile and less reliant on physical presence in a Company office, our disaster recovery plans increasingly rely on the availability of the internet and mobile phone technology, so the disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover from a crisis situation. CIVIL AND REGULATORY CLAIMS; LITIGATING DISPUTES IN DIFFERENT JURISDICTIONS. Substantial civil legal liability or a significant regulatory action against the Firm could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Many legal systems, including in the United States, do not make it easy to recover legal fees from plaintiffs that file cases we consider frivolous, so the costs to us of defending such cases can be substantial even if we prevail. While we maintain commercial insurance in an amount we believe is appropriate, we also maintain a significant level of self-insurance for the liabilities we may incur. Although we place our commercial insurance with only highly-rated companies, the value of otherwise valid claims we hold under insurance policies may become uncollectible due to the insolvency of the applicable insurance company. The global economic downturn has made insurance companies less stable financially and has therefore increased the risk of their creditworthiness to us as some of the most prominent insurers have experienced downgrades in their financial ratings. The quality of ratings provided by outside rating agencies has also generally been called into question in connection with the global financial crisis, which may increase the risk of 16 Table of Contents relying on these ratings when we conduct due diligence on the credit-quality of insurance companies. The global nature of our business means that there are fewer insurance companies that can adequately service our account, so we do not have a significant number of alternative providers in case we are unable to continue to place coverage with one of our existing insurers. Additionally the claims we have can be complex and insurance companies can prove difficult or bureaucratic in resolving claims, which may result in payments to us being delayed or reduced or that we must litigate in order to enforce an insurance policy claim. Because any disputes we have with third parties, or any government regulatory matters, must generally be adjudicated within the jurisdiction in which the dispute arose, our ability to resolve our disputes successfully depends on the local laws that apply and the operation of the local judicial system, the timeliness, quality, transparency, integrity and sophistication of which varies widely from one jurisdiction to the next. Our geographic diversity therefore may expose us to disputes in certain jurisdictions that could be challenging to resolve efficiently and/or effectively, particularly as there appears to be a tendency toward more litigation in emerging markets, where the rule of law is less reliable and legal systems are less mature and transparent. It may also be more difficult to collect receivables from clients who do not pay their bills in certain jurisdictions, since resorting to the judicial system in certain countries may not be an effective alternative given the delays and costs involved. Internal Operational Risk Factors CONCENTRATIONS OF BUSINESS WITH CORPORATE CLIENTS CAUSES INCREASED CREDIT RISK AND GREATER IMPACT FROM THE LOSS OF CERTAIN CLIENTS. While our client base remains highly diversified across industries and geographies, we do value the expansion of business relationships with individual corporate clients and the increased efficiency and economics (both to our clients and our Firm) that can result from developing repeat business from the same client and from performing an increasingly broad range of services for the same client. At the same time, having increasingly large and concentrated clients also can lead to greater or more concentrated risks of loss if, among other possibilities, such a client (1) experiences its own financial problems, which can lead to larger individual credit risks, (2) becomes bankrupt or insolvent, which can lead to our failure to be paid for services we have previously provided or funds we have previously advanced, (3) decides to reduce its operations or its real estate facilities, (4) makes a change in its real estate strategy, such as no longer outsourcing its real estate operations, (5) decides to change its providers of real estate services or (6) merges with another corporation or otherwise undergoes a change of control, which may result in new management taking over with a different real estate philosophy or in different relationships with other real estate providers. Additionally, increasingly large clients may, and sometimes do, attempt to leverage the extent of their relationships with us during the course of contract negotiations or in connection with disputes or potential litigation. The global economic downturn has increased these risks as it has created significant financial distress (which in some cases led to bankruptcy or insolvency) for many organizations, including ones that are clients of ours. Some of our largest clients include companies in the financial services industry, such as commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies, and companies in the auto industry, which have been and will likely continue to be significantly impacted by the current global economic downturn and the reactions to it by governments, regulatory agencies, lenders and customers. CONTRACTUAL LIABILITIES AS PRINCIPAL AND FOR WARRANTED PRICING. We may, on behalf of our clients, hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction, engineering and various other services for our managed properties or the properties we are developing. Depending upon the terms of our contracts with clients (which, for example, may place us in the position of a principal rather than an agent) or responsibilities we assume or are legally deemed to have assumed in the course of a client engagement (whether or not memorialized in a contract), we may be subjected to, or become liable for, claims for construction defects, negligent performance of work or other similar actions by third parties we do not control. Adverse outcomes of property management disputes or litigation could negatively impact our business, operating results and/or financial condition, particularly if we have not limited in our contracts the extent of damages to which we may be liable for the consequences of our actions, or if our liabilities exceed the amounts of the commercial third-party insurance that we carry. Moreover, our clients may seek to hold us accountable for the actions of contractors because of our role as property manager even if we have technically disclaimed liability as a legal matter, in which case we may be pressured to participate in a financial settlement for purposes of preserving the client relationship. Acting as a principal may also mean that we pay a contractor before we have been reimbursed by the client, which exposes us to additional risks of collection from the client in the event of an intervening bankruptcy or insolvency of the client. The reverse can occur as well, where a contractor we have paid files bankruptcy or commits fraud with the funds before completing a project for which we have paid it in part or in full. As part of our project management business, we may enter into agreements with clients that provide for a warranted or guaranteed cost for a project that we manage. In these situations, we are responsible for managing the various other contractors required for a project, including general contractors, in order to ensure that the cost of a project does not exceed the contract price and that the project is completed on time. In the event that one of the other contractors on the project does not or cannot perform as a result of bankruptcy or for some other reason, we may be responsible for any cost overruns as well as the consequences for late delivery. 17 Table of Contents The global economic downturn has increased the chances that these risks will be realized, and we have experienced credit-related problems at a higher level than in the past with vendors and contractors due to their increased financial instability. PERFORMANCE UNDER CLIENT CONTRACTS; REVENUE RECOGNITION; SCOPE CREEP; RISING COST OF INSURANCE RESULTING FROM NEGLIGENCE CLAIMS. We generally provide services to our clients under contracts, and in certain cases we are subject to regulatory and/or fiduciary obligations (which may relate to, among other matters, the decisions we may make on behalf of a client with respect to managing assets on its behalf or purchasing products or services from third parties or other divisions within our Firm). Our services may involve handling substantial amounts of client funds in connection with managing their properties. They may also involve complicated and high-profile transactions which involve significant amounts of money. We face legal and reputational risks in the event we do not perform, or are perceived to have not performed, under those contracts or in accordance with those regulations or obligations, or in the event we are negligent in the handling of client funds or in the way in which we have delivered our professional services. We have certain business lines, such as valuations and lease administration, where the size of the transactions we handle are much greater than the fees we generate from them, as the result of which the consequences of errors that lead to damages can be disproportionately large in the event our contractual protections or our insurance coverage are inadequate to protect us fully. The precautions we take to prevent these types of occurrences, which represent a significant commitment of corporate resources, may nevertheless not be effective in all cases. Unexpected costs or delays could make our client contracts or engagements less profitable than anticipated. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could have an adverse effect on profit margins. In the event that we perform services for clients without executing appropriate contractual documentation, we may be unable to realize our full compensation potential or recognize revenue for accounting purposes, and we may not be able to effectively limit our liability in the event of client disputes. If we perform services for clients that are beyond, or different from, what were contemplated in contracts (known as “scope creep”), we may not be fully reimbursed for the services provided, or our potential liability in the case of a negligence claim may not have been as limited as it normally would have been or may be unclear. If we make a large insurance claim on our professional indemnity policy due to a situation involving our negligence, we would expect subsequent premiums to increase materially, the size of deductibles we are required to retain may increase substantially and the availability of future coverage could be negatively impacted. CO-INVESTMENT, INVESTMENT, MERCHANT BANKING AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT BANKING ACTIVITIES SUBJECT US TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT RISKS AND POTENTIAL LIABILITIES. An important part of our investment strategy includes investing in real estate, both individually and along with our money management clients. In order to remain competitive with well-capitalized financial services firms, we may also make merchant banking investments, as the result of which we may use Firm capital to acquire properties before the related investment management funds have been established or investment commitments received from third-party clients. A strategy that we have not pursued vigorously due to the disruptions in the markets but that still has potential is to further engage in certain real estate investment banking activities in which we, either solely or with one or more joint venture partners, would employ capital to assist our clients in maximizing the value of their real estate (for example, we might acquire a property from a client that wishes to dispose of it within a certain time frame, after which we would market it for sale as the principal and therefore assume any related market risk). We also have business lines that have as part of their strategy the acquisition, development, management and sale of real estate. Investing in any of these types of situations exposes us to a number of risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Although our investment activities were substantially curtailed during 2008 and 2009 and so far into 2010 as the result of the worldwide credit crisis and economic downturn, we do anticipate that these strategies will ultimately re-emerge as the markets stabilize. Investing in real estate for the above reasons poses the following risks: • We may lose some or all of the capital that we invest if the investments perform poorly. Real estate investments can perform poorly as the result of many factors outside of our control, including the general reduction in asset values within a particular geography or asset class. Starting in 2007 and continuing through 2009, for example, real estate prices in many markets throughout the world declined generally as the result of the significant tightening of the credit markets and the effects of recessionary economies and significant unemployment. In 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $51 million representing our equity share of impairment charges against individual assets in which we hold co-investments. • We will have fluctuations in earnings and cash flow as we recognize gains or losses, and receive cash, upon the disposition of investments, the timing of which is geared toward the benefit of our clients. • We generally hold our investments in real estate through subsidiaries with limited liability; however, in certain circumstances, it is possible that this limited exposure may be expanded in the future based upon, among other things, changes in applicable laws or the application of existing or new laws. To the extent this occurs, our liability could exceed the amount we have invested. 18 Table of Contents • We make co-investments in real estate in many countries, and this presents risks as described above in “External Market Risk Factors.” Without limitation, this may include changes to tax treaties, tax policy, foreign investment policy or other local legislative changes that may adversely affect the performance of our co-investments. The global economic downturn increases the chances of significant changes in government policies generally, the effects of which are inherently difficult to predict. • We generally make co-investments in the local currency of the country in which the investment asset exists and we will therefore be subject to the risks described below under “Currency Restrictions and Exchange Rate Fluctuations.” CORPORATE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. All providers of professional services to clients, including our Firm, must manage potential conflicts of interest that may arise, principally where the primary duty of loyalty owed to one client is somehow potentially weakened or compromised by a relationship also maintained with another client or third party. Corporate conflicts of interest arise in the context of the services we provide as a firm to our different clients. Personal conflicts of interest on the part of our employees are separately considered as issues within the context of our Code of Business Ethics. The failure or inability of the Firm to identify, disclose and resolve potential conflicts of interest in a significant situation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. An example of a potential conflict of interest situation is that in the ordinary course of its business, LaSalle Investment Management hires property managers for its investment properties held on behalf of clients, in which case it may hire Jones Lang LaSalle to provide such services or it may hire a firm that is a competitor of Jones Lang LaSalle. In the event it retains Jones Lang LaSalle, it may appear to have a conflict of interest with respect to the selection. As a fiduciary with respect to its client funds, LaSalle Investment Management acts independently of Jones Lang LaSalle in these situations and follows certain internal procedures so that in each situation it selects the service provider that can best represent the interests of the investment management client or fund. Another example is that in certain countries, based upon applicable regulations and local market dynamics, we have established joint ventures or other arrangements with insurance brokers through which insurance coverage is offered to clients, tenants in buildings we manage and vendors to those buildings. In any case, although we fully disclose our arrangements and do not require anyone to use the insurance services, Jones Lang LaSalle has a financial interest in the placement of insurance with such third parties and therefore we may be deemed to have certain conflicts of interest in those situations. After reductions in the market values of the underlying properties, firms engaged in the business of providing valuations are inherently subject to a higher risk of claims with respect to conflicts of interest based on the circumstances of valuations they previously issued. Regardless of the ultimate merits of these claims, the allegations themselves can cause reputational damage and can be expensive to defend in terms of counsel fees and otherwise. CLIENT DUE DILIGENCE. There are circumstances where the conduct or identity of our clients could cause us reputational damage or financial harm or could lead to our non-compliance with certain laws, as the result of which there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. An example would be the attempt by a client to “launder” funds through its relationship with us, namely to disguise the illegal source of funds that are put into otherwise legitimate real estate investments. Another example is inadvertently doing business with a client that has been listed on one of the “prohibited persons” lists now published by many countries around the world. Our efforts to evaluate clients before doing business with them in order not to do business with a prohibited party and to avoid attempts to launder money or otherwise to exploit their relationship with us may not be successful in all situations since compliance for a business such as ours is very complex and also since we take a risk-based approach to the procedures we have employed. Additionally, it is not always possible to accurately determine the ultimate owners or control persons within our clients’ organizations or other entities with which we do business, particularly if they are actively attempting to hide such information from regulatory authorities. We may therefore unknowingly be doing business with entities that are otherwise involved in illegal activities that do not involve us or that are ultimately controlled by persons with whom engaging in business has been prohibited by applicable regulatory authorities. BURDEN OF COMPLYING WITH MULTIPLE AND POTENTIALLY CONFLICTING LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND DEALING WITH CHANGES IN LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS. We face a broad range of legal and regulatory environments in the countries in which we do business. Coordinating our activities to deal with these requirements presents significant challenges. As an example, in the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) regulates the conduct of investment businesses and the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) regulates the profession of Chartered Surveyors, which is the professional qualification required for certain of the services we provide in the United Kingdom, through upholding standards of competence and conduct. As another example, various activities of LaSalle Investment Management associated with raising capital and offering investment funds are regulated in the United States by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in other countries by similar securities regulatory authorities. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to various corporate governance and other requirements established by statute, pursuant to SEC regulations and under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Additionally, changes in legal and regulatory 19 Table of Contents requirements can impact our ability to engage in business in certain jurisdictions or increase the cost of doing so. The legal requirements of U.S. statutes may also conflict with local legal requirements in a particular country, as, for example, when anonymous hotlines required under U.S. law were construed to conflict in part with French privacy laws. Identifying the regulations with which we must comply and then complying with them are complex activities in our circumstances and may not be successful in all situations, as the result of which we could be subject to regulatory actions and fines for non-compliance. The global economic crisis has resulted in an unusual level of government and legislative activities, which we expect will continue into the future and which exacerbates these risks. Changes in administrations, such as those occurring in the United States at the beginning of 2009, may result in significant changes in enforcement priorities with respect to employment, health and safety, tax, securities disclosure and other regulations, which in turn could negatively affect our business. LICENSING REQUIREMENTS. The brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions, property management, conducting valuations, trading in securities for clients and the operation of the investment advisory business, among other business lines, require us to maintain licenses in various jurisdictions in which we operate. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct brokerage, management, valuations, investment advisory or other regulated activities without a license, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions received or have licenses suspended. Our acquisition activity increases these risks because we must successfully transfer licenses of the acquired entities and their staff, as appropriate. Licensing requirements may also preclude us from engaging in certain types of transactions or change the way in which we conduct business or the cost of doing so. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions and the number of countries in which we operate or invest have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from noncompliance have increased. Recent highly publicized accounting and investment management frauds that have occurred in various businesses and countries during the last two years may result in significant changes in regulations that may affect our business. Furthermore, the laws and regulations applicable to our business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, also may change in ways that materially increase the costs of compliance. Particularly in emerging markets, there can be relatively less transparency around the standards and conditions under which licenses are granted, maintained or renewed, and it may be difficult to defend against the arbitrary revocation of a license in a jurisdiction where the rule of law is less well developed. As a licensed real estate service provider and advisor in various jurisdictions, we and our licensed employees may be subject to various due diligence, disclosure, standard-of-care, anti-money laundering and other obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties we brokered or managed or who invested in our funds. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales or other services claiming that we did not fulfill our obligations as a service provider or broker (including, for example, with respect to conflicts of interests where we are acting, or are perceived to be acting, for two or more clients with potentially contrary interests). COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. If any of our financial, accounting, human resources or other data processing, e-mail, client accounting, funds processing or electronic information management systems do not operate properly or are disabled (including as the result of computer viruses, problems with the internet or sabotage), we could suffer a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of client data, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including disruptions of electrical or communications services, disruptions caused by natural disasters, political instability or terrorist attacks, or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. As we outsource significant portions of our IT functions to third-party providers, we bear the risk of having somewhat less direct control over the manner and quality of performance than we would if done by our own employees. The development of new software systems used to operate one or more aspects of our business, particularly on a customized basis or in order to coordinate or consolidate financial, human resources or other types of infrastructure data reporting, client accounting or funds processing is complicated and may result in costs that we cannot recoup in the event of the failure to complete a planned software development. A new software system that has defects may cause reputational issues and client or employee dissatisfaction, with business lost as a result. The acquisition or development of software systems is often dependent to one degree or another on the quality, ability and/or financial stability of one or more third-party vendors, over which we may not have control beyond the rights we negotiate in our contracts. Different privacy policies from one country to the next (or across a region such as the European Union) may restrict our ability to share or collect data on a global basis, and this may limit the utility of otherwise available technology. The Firm has been implementing significant new financial, human resources, client relationship management, payables processing, securities management and trading and intranet software systems on a worldwide basis, and is in the process of transitioning various significant processes to these new systems. This implementation is complex and involves continuously evolving processes. If the Firm does 20 Table of Contents not implement these new systems effectively, or if any of the new systems does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of the Firm’s financial reporting or internal controls could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is also dependent, in part, on our ability to deliver to our clients the efficiencies and convenience afforded by technology. The effort to gain technological expertise and develop or acquire new technologies requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors do, we could lose market share. We are increasingly dependent on the internet and intranet technology to disseminate critical business information publicly and also to our employees internally. In the event of technology failure, or our inability to maintain robust platforms, we risk competitive disadvantage. RISKS INHERENT IN MAKING ACQUISITIONS. We did not make any material new acquisitions during 2009 due to the significant market disruptions and uncertainties that all businesses experienced. However, we have made in the past, and anticipate that we may make in the future, acquisitions of businesses or business lines. Acquisitions subject us to a number of significant risks, any of which may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits or synergies of the acquisition. The integration of companies is a complex and time-consuming process that could significantly disrupt the businesses of Jones Lang LaSalle and the acquired company. The challenges involved in integration and realizing the benefits of an acquisition include: • Diversion of management attention and financial resources from existing operations; • Difficulties in integrating cultures, compensation structures, operations, existing contracts, accounting processes and methodologies, and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • Inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; • Inability to retain clients of the acquired business; • Exposure to legal, environmental, employment, ethical and other types of claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition, including those that may not have been adequately identified during the pre-acquisition due diligence investigation or those which the legal documentation associated with the transaction did not successfully terminate or transfer; • Addition of business lines in which we have not previously engaged (for example, general contractor services for “ground-up” construction development projects); • Inability to effectively integrate the acquired business and its employees, or to successfully integrate merged operations in a timely or complete manner; and • Potential impairment of intangible assets, which could adversely affect our reported results. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating our operations with those of another company or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the consideration payable for the acquisition or other resources to another opportunity. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES AND REGULATIONS; CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS. The Firm’s operations are affected by federal, state and/or local environmental laws in the countries in which we maintain office space for our own operations and where we manage properties for clients. We may face liability with respect to environmental issues occurring at properties that we manage or occupy, or in which we invest. Various laws and regulations restrict the levels of certain substances that may be discharged into the environment by properties or they may impose liability on current or previous real estate owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. We may face costs or liabilities under these laws as a result of our role as an on-site property manager or a manager of construction projects. Our risks for such liabilities may increase as we expand our services to include more industrial and/or manufacturing facilities than has been the case in the past. In addition, we may face liability if such laws are applied to expand our limited liability with respect to our co-investments in real estate as discussed above. Given that the Firm’s own operations are generally conducted within leased office building space, we do not currently anticipate that regulations restricting the emissions of “greenhouse gases,” or taxes that may be imposed on their release, would result in material costs or capital expenditures, although we cannot be certain about the extent to which such regulations will develop as there are higher levels of understanding and commitments by different governments around the world regarding the risks of climate change and how they should be mitigated. ABILITY TO PROTECT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY; INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD-PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to identify and protect proprietary information and other intellectual property (such as our service marks, client lists and information, and business methods). Existing laws of some countries in which we provide or intend to provide services (or the extent to which their laws are enforced) may offer only limited protections of our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements, and on patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to detect unauthorized use (for example, by 21 Table of Contents former employees) or take appropriate or timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our business. These risks may be enhanced due to increased employee redundancies that result from the economic downturn. We cannot be sure that the intellectual property that we may use in the course of operating our business or the services we offer to clients do not infringe on the rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services. Confidential intellectual property is increasingly stored or carried on mobile devices, such as laptop computers, which makes inadvertent disclosure more of a risk in the event the mobile devices are lost or stolen and the information has not been adequately safeguarded or encrypted. ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN SATISFACTORY INTERNAL FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. If we are not able to continue to successfully implement the requirements of Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our reputation, financial results and the market price of our stock could suffer. Our accounting can be complex and requires that management make judgments with respect to revenue recognition, acquisitions and other aspects of our business. While we believe that we have adequate internal financial reporting control procedures in place, we may be exposed to potential risks from this legislation, which requires companies to evaluate their internal controls and have their controls attested to by their independent auditors on an annual basis. We have evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting as required for purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to receive a positive attestation in future years, particularly since standards continue to evolve and are not necessarily being applied consistently from one auditing firm to another. If we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future that we cannot remediate in a timely fashion, we may be unable to receive a positive attestation at some time in the future from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting. Financial Risk Factors WE MAY HAVE INDEBTEDNESS WITH FIXED OR VARIABLE INTEREST RATES AND CERTAIN COVENANTS WITH WHICH WE MUST COMPLY. We currently have the ability to borrow, from a syndicate of lenders, up to $850 million on an unsecured revolving credit facility and a term loan agreement (together the “Facilities”), with capacity to borrow up to an additional $58.9 million under local overdraft facilities. At December 31, 2009, we had $175.0 million of unsecured indebtedness from the Facilities, all from our term loan facility, and $23.0 million outstanding on local overdraft facilities. Our average outstanding borrowings under the Facilities were $493.3 million during 2009 at an effective interest rate of 3.7%. Our outstanding borrowings fluctuate during the year primarily due to varying working capital requirements. For example, payment of annual incentive compensation represents a significant working capital requirement commanding increased borrowings in the first half of the year, while historically the Firm’s seasonal earnings pattern provides more cash flow in the second half of the year. To the extent we continue our acquisition activities in the future, the level of our indebtedness could increase materially if we use the Facilities to fund such purchases. The terms of the Facilities contain a number of covenants that could restrict our flexibility to finance future operations or capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. The debt covenants limit our ability, among other things, to: • Encumber or dispose of assets; • Incur additional indebtedness; • Make investments; • Make capital expenditures; • Increase dividends; and • Engage in acquisitions. In addition, the Facilities require that we maintain a consolidated net worth of at least $1.1 billion and a leverage ratio not exceeding 3.75 to 1 through March 2011, at which point the maximum allowable leverage decreases to 3.50 to 1 through September 2011, and 3.25 to 1 thereafter. We must also maintain a minimum cash interest coverage ratio of 2.0 to 1. If we are unable to make required payments under the Facilities or if we breach any of the debt covenants, we will be in default under the terms of the Facilities. A default under the Facilities could cause acceleration of repayment of outstanding amounts as well as defaults under other existing and future debt obligations. VOLATILITY IN LASALLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FEE REVENUE. LaSalle Investment Management’s portfolio is of sufficient size to periodically generate large incentive fees and equity losses and gains that significantly influence our 22 Table of Contents earnings and the changes in earnings from one year to the next. Volatility in this component of our earnings is inevitable due to the nature of this aspect of our business, and the amount of incentive fees or equity gains or losses we may recognize in future quarters is inherently unpredictable and relates to market dynamics in effect at the time. The speed with which the real estate markets worldwide turned from positive to negative starting in 2007 and continuing through 2009 is a further indication of the volatility to which we are subject and over which we have no control. In the case of our commingled funds, underlying market conditions, particular decisions regarding the acquisition and disposition of fund assets, and the specifics of the client mandate will determine the timing and size of incentive fees from one fund to another. For separate accounts, where asset management is ongoing, we also may earn incentive fees at periodic agreed-upon measurement dates, and they may be related to performance relative to specified real-estate indices (such as that published by the National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries (NCREIF)). While LaSalle Investment Management has focused over the past several years on developing more predictable annuity-type revenue, incentive fees should continue to be an important part of our revenue and earnings once real estate markets recover from the current significant downturn. As a result, the volatility described above should be expected to continue. For example, in 2006, we recognized one very significant incentive fee from the long-term performance of a separate account where we have ongoing portfolio management. This incentive fee was payable only once every four years and was calculated based on the account’s performance above a real rate of return so long as the account’s performance has exceeded a NCREIF-based index. Given the extraordinary fall in asset prices that many markets have experienced starting in 2007, our incentive fees have fallen significantly and are likely to continue to decrease in the near future. These declines may be partially offset by our ability to take advantage of lower asset prices as we make new investments, although predicting with any confidence how all of these complicated factors will ultimately affect our future results is problematic. Where incentive fees on a given transaction or portfolio are particularly large, certain clients have attempted to renegotiate fees even though contractually obligated to pay them, and we expect this to occur from time to time in the future. Our efforts to collect our fees in these situations may lead to significant legal fees and/or significant delays in collection due to extended negotiations, arbitration or litigation, or may result in negotiated reductions in fees that take into account the future value of the relationship. VOLATILITY IN HOTELS AND CAPITAL MARKETS FEES. We have business lines other than LaSalle Investment Management that also generate fees based on the timing, size and pricing of closed transactions and these fees may significantly contribute to our earnings and to changes in earnings from one quarter or year to the next. For example, in 2007 our Hotels business generated one very substantial fee from the sale of a large portfolio of hotels on behalf of a particular client. Volatility in this component of our earnings is inevitable due to the nature of these businesses and the amount of the fees we will recognize in future quarters is inherently unpredictable, even more so due to significant negative market changes worldwide that surfaced during 2007 and continued through 2009. LASALLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT BANKING AND CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS. Although not highly leveraged by general industry standards, the investment funds that LaSalle Investment Management operates in the ordinary course of business borrow money from a variety of institutional lenders. The loans typically are secured by liens on specific investment properties but are otherwise non-recourse. As the result of the global financial crisis, the values of specific properties may now be less than the amount of the outstanding loan on the property, which may give the lender the right to foreclose on the property, in which case the equity invested by the fund may now be without value. These situations are typically addressed on a case-by-case basis and, because we generally maintain good relationships with our lenders, can sometimes be successfully renegotiated so that we remain in control of the property which gives additional time for values to recover. Clients of LaSalle Investment Management that have open commitments to provide additional investments and that have come under stress due to the financial downturn may become financially unable to honor their commitments or may seek to renegotiate the terms of their commitments or the fees that they pay, and they may attempt to leverage their willingness to make future commitments in order to do so. Within a difficult economic environment, raising new funds takes longer and may be less successful as current and prospective clients may be less able or willing to commit new funds to real estate investments, which are inherently less liquid than many competing investments. Additionally, certain clients may decide to manage all or a portion of their real estate investments with internal resources rather than hiring outside investment managers. CURRENCY RESTRICTIONS AND EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. We produce positive flows of cash in various countries and currencies that can be most effectively used to fund operations in other countries or to repay our indebtedness, which is currently primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We face restrictions in certain countries that limit or prevent the transfer of funds to other countries or the exchange of the local currency to other currencies. We also face risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may lead to a decline in the value of the funds produced in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, although we operate globally, we report our results in U.S. dollars, and thus our reported results may be positively or negatively impacted by the strengthening or weakening of currencies against the U.S. dollar. As an example, the euro and the pound sterling, each a currency used in a significant portion of our operations, have fluctuated significantly in recent years. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 45% of our revenue was attributable to operations with U.S. dollars as their functional currency, and 55% was 23 Table of Contents attributable to operations having other functional currencies. In addition to the potential negative impact on reported earnings, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of the reported results of operations. We are authorized to use currency-hedging instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts, purchased currency options and borrowings in foreign currency. There can be no assurance that such hedging will be economically effective. We do not use hedging instruments for speculative purposes. As currency forward and option contracts are generally conducted off-exchange or over-the-counter (“OTC”), many of the safeguards accorded to participants on organized exchanges, such as the performance guarantee of an exchange clearing house, are generally unavailable in connection with OTC transactions. In addition, there can be no guarantee that the counterparty will fulfill its obligations under the contractual agreement, especially in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of the counterparty, which would effectively leave us unhedged. The following table sets forth the revenue derived from our most significant currencies on a revenue basis ($ in millions): 2009 2008 United States dollar $ 1,128.6 1,131.8 Euro 373.5 480.7 British pound 260.0 344.0 Australian dollar 163.5 160.2 Singapore dollar 118.7 130.4 Japanese yen 102.9 92.7 Hong Kong dollar 75.6 83.1 Other currencies 257.9 274.7 $ 2,480.7 2,697.6 In 2008 and 2009, many of the most significant governments worldwide enacted economic stimulus measures of various types. It is inherently difficult to predict how and when these measures will affect the relative values of currencies and in any event we anticipate significant continuing volatility in currency exchange rates. GREATER DIFFICULTY IN COLLECTING ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES AND REGIONS. We face challenges in our ability to efficiently and/or effectively collect accounts receivable in certain countries and regions. For example, various countries have underdeveloped insolvency laws, and clients often are slow to pay. In some countries, clients typically tend to delay payments, reflecting a different business culture over which we do not necessarily have any control. Less-developed countries may have very lengthy or difficult judicial processes that can make collections through the court system more problematic than they would otherwise be. Additionally, the increasing weakness in the global economy has put additional financial stress on clients and landlords (who sometimes are the parties that pay our commissions where we have placed a tenant representation client into their buildings). This in turn has negatively impacted our ability to collect our receivables fully or in a timely manner. We cannot be sure that the procedures we use to identify and rectify slowly paid receivables, and to protect ourselves against the insolvencies or bankruptcies of clients, landlords and other third parties with which we do business, which may involve placing liens or properties or litigating, will be effective in all cases. We expect that 2010 will continue to be an unusually challenging business environment in which to collect receivables. INCREASING FINANCIAL RISK OF COUNTERPARTIES, INCLUDING REFINANCING RISK. The unprecedented disruptions and dynamic changes in the financial markets, and particularly insofar as they have led to major changes in the status and creditworthiness of some of the world’s largest banks, investment banks and insurance companies, among others, have generally increased the counterparty risk to us from a financial standpoint, including with respect to (1) obtaining new credit commitments from lenders, (2) refinancing credit commitments or loans that have terminated or matured according to their terms (including funds sponsored by our investment management subsidiary which use leverage in the ordinary course of their investment activities), (3) placing insurance, (4) engaging in hedging transactions and (5) maintaining cash deposits or other investments, both our own and those we hold for the benefit of clients, which are generally much larger than the maximum amount of government-sponsored deposit insurance in effect for a particular account. We generally attempt to conduct business with only the highest quality and most well-known counterparties, but there can be no assurance (1) that our efforts to evaluate their creditworthiness will be effective in all cases (particularly as the quality of credit ratings provided by the nationally recognized rating agencies has been called into question), (2) that we will always be able to obtain the full benefit of the financial commitments made to us by lenders, insurance companies, hedging counterparties or other organizations with which we do business or (3) that we will always be able to refinance existing indebtedness (or commitments to provide indebtedness) which has matured by its terms, including funds sponsored by our investment management subsidiary. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, the ability of government regulatory authorities to adequately monitor and regulate banks, investment banks, securities firms and insurance companies has also been significantly called into question during the current downturn (for example, in identifying and preventing “pyramid schemes,” “bubbles” in different asset classes and other potential systemic failures in a timely fashion), as the result of which the overall risk of unforeseeable financial loss from engaging in business with ostensibly regulated counterparties has increased. POTENTIALLY ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES; CHANGES IN TAX LEGISLATION AND TAX RATES. Moving funds between countries can produce adverse tax consequences in the countries from which and to which funds are transferred, as well as in other countries, such as the United States, in which we have operations. Additionally, as our operations are global, we face challenges in effectively gaining a tax benefit for costs incurred in one country that benefit our operations in other countries. Changes in tax legislation or tax rates may occur in one or more jurisdictions in which we operate that may materially increase the cost of operating our business. This includes the potential for significant legislative policy change in the taxation objectives with respect to the income of multinational corporations, as has recently been the subject of policy debate and proposals in the United States and the United Kingdom. Although we are uncertain as to the ultimate results, or what the effects will be on our businesses in particular, it is possible that some governments will make significant changes to their tax policies as part of their responses to their weakened economies. THE CHARTER AND THE BYLAWS OF JONES LANG LASALLE, OR THE MARYLAND GENERAL CORPORATION LAW, COULD DELAY, DEFER OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL. The charter and bylaws of Jones Lang LaSalle include provisions that may discourage, delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that may be in the best interest of Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The charter and bylaws provide for: • The ability of the board of directors to establish one or more classes and series of capital stock including the ability to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of such capital stock without any further shareholder approval; • A requirement that any shareholder action taken without a meeting be pursuant to unanimous written consent; and • Certain advance notice procedures for Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders nominating candidates for election to the Jones Lang LaSalle board of directors. Under the Maryland General Corporate Law (the “MGCL”), certain “Business Combinations” (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares or an affiliate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the corporation (an “Interested Shareholder”) or an affiliate of the Interested Shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder. Thereafter, any such Business Combination must be recommended by the board of directors of such corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation and (2) 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation other than shares held by the Interested Shareholder with whom the Business Combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the corporation’s shareholders receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Shareholder for its shares. Pursuant to the MGCL, these provisions also do not apply to Business Combinations approved or exempted by the board of directors of the corporation prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder becomes an Interested Shareholder. Human Resources Risk Factors, Including From Non-Employees DIFFICULTIES AND COSTS OF STAFFING AND MANAGING INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. The coordination and management of international operations pose additional costs and difficulties. We must manage operations in many time zones and that involve people with language and cultural differences. Our success depends on finding and retaining people capable of dealing with these challenges effectively, who will represent the Firm with the highest levels of integrity and who will communicate and cooperate well with colleagues and clients across multiple geographies. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or to successfully plan for succession of employees holding key management positions, our growth may be limited, and our business and operating results could suffer. Among the challenges we face in retaining our people is maintaining a compensation system that rewards them consistent with local market practices and with our profitability, which can be especially difficult where competitors may be attempting to gain market share by aggressively attempting to hire our best people at rates of compensation that are well above the current market level. We also face the possibility that firms in other industries that recover before real estate will be able to increase compensation sooner than we can, which may make them more attractive employers for top talent. Another continuing challenge we have is to maintain compensation systems that align 25 Table of Contents financial incentives with our strategic goals as an organization and the business and ethics behaviors we want to drive among our people, while at the same time not create incentives to engage in overly risky business pursuits or behaviors. We have committed resources to effectively coordinate our business activities around the world to meet our clients’ needs, whether they are local, regional or global. We also consistently attempt to enhance the establishment, organization and communication of corporate policies, particularly where we determine that the nature of our business poses the greatest risk of noncompliance. The failure of our people to carry out their responsibilities in accordance with our client contracts, our corporate and operating policies, or our standard operating procedures, or their negligence in doing so, could result in liability to clients or other third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. This is true not only with respect to individuals we employ directly, but also individuals who work for third party vendors whom we hire on behalf of clients, especially where we are acting in a principal capacity. The worldwide credit crisis and economic recession have caused us to restructure certain parts of our business in order to size them properly relative to levels of business activity we expect in the markets in which we compete. These activities present additional risks to the business. When addressing staffing in connection with a restructuring of our organization or a downturn in economic conditions or activity, we must take into account the employment laws of the countries in which actions are contemplated. In some cases, this can result in significant costs, time delays in implementing headcount reductions and, potentially, litigation regarding allegedly improper employment practices. NONCOMPLIANCE WITH POLICIES; COMMUNICATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT OF OUR POLICIES AND OUR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS. The geographic and cultural diversity in our organization makes it more challenging to communicate the importance of adherence to our Code of Business Ethics and our Vendor Code of Conduct, to monitor and enforce compliance with its provisions on a worldwide basis, and to ensure local compliance with U.S. laws that apply globally, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Patriot Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Breaches of our Code of Business Ethics, particularly by our executive management, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and/or financial condition. Breaches of our Vendor Code of Conduct by vendors whom we retain as a principal for client engagements can also lead to significant losses to clients from financial liabilities that might result. EMPLOYEE, VENDOR AND THIRD-PARTY MISCONDUCT. Like any business, we run the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. In a company such as ours with more than 36,600 employees, it is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee misconduct, including fraud, can cause significant financial or reputational harm to any business, from which full recovery cannot be assured. We also may not have insurance that covers any losses in full or that covers losses from particular criminal acts. Because we often hire third-party vendors to perform services for our own account or for clients, we are also subject to the consequences of fraud or misconduct by employees of our vendors, which also can result in significant financial or reputational harm (even if we have been adequately protected from a legal standpoint). We have instituted a Vendor Code of Conduct, which is published in multiple languages on our public Web site, and which is intended to communicate to our vendors the standards of conduct we expect them to uphold. Anecdotally, the risk that the Company will be the victim of fraud, both from employees and third parties, is generally thought to increase during times of general economic stress such as we are now experiencing. An example of a third-party fraud would be attempts to draw on bank accounts by way of forged checks or by corporate identity theft, both of which we have increasingly experienced in the past year as attempts but without financial loss. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 