Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should be aware that we and our business are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose 21 all or part of any investment. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and included elsewhere. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. 1. If we are not able to compete effectively in the highly competitive wireless communications industry, our future growth and operating results will suffer. Our success will depend on the ability of our operating companies to compete effectively with other telecommunications services providers, including wireline companies and other wireless telecommunications companies, in the markets in which they operate. a. Some of our competitors are financially stronger than we are, which may limit our ability to compete based on price. Because of their size and resources, and in some cases ownership by larger companies, some of our competitors may be able to offer services to customers at prices that are below the prices that our operating companies can offer for comparable services. If we cannot compete effectively based on the price of our service offerings and related cost structure, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors are well-established companies that have: • substantially greater financial and marketing resources; • larger customer bases; • larger spectrum positions; and • larger coverage areas than those of our operating companies. Further, significant price competition and other actions by our competitors could negatively impact our operating results and our ability to attract and retain customers. For example, some of Nextel Mexico’s larger competitors have increased the level of competition in Mexico by, among other things, significantly lowering prices for postpaid wireless services, offering free or significantly discounted handsets, offering various incentives to larger customers to switch service providers, including reimbursement of cancellation fees, and offering bundled telecommunications services that include local, long distance and data services. In addition, we anticipate that all of our operating companies will continue to face strong market pressure to reduce the prices charged for their products and services because of increased competition in our markets. b. Our equipment is more expensive than that of our competitors, which may limit our ability to compete with other companies that rely on more prevalent technologies and less expensive equipment. Our digital mobile networks utilize iDEN technology developed and designed by Motorola. iDEN is a proprietary technology that relies solely on the efforts of Motorola and any future licensees of this technology for product development and innovation. Additionally, Motorola and RIM are the sole suppliers of all of our handsets. In contrast, our competitors use infrastructure and subscriber equipment that are based on standard technologies like GSM, which is a substantially more widely used technology than iDEN and is available from a significant number of suppliers. As a result, our competitors benefit from economies of scale and lower costs for handsets and infrastructure equipment. These factors, as well as the higher cost of our handsets and other equipment may make it more difficult for us to attract or retain customers, and may require us to absorb a comparatively larger cost of offering handsets to new and existing customers. The combination of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage and may reduce our growth and profitability. c. Our operating companies may face disadvantages when competing against formerly government-owned incumbent wireline operators or wireless operators affiliated with them. In some markets, our operating companies may not be able to compete effectively against a formerly government-owned monopoly telecommunications operator, which today enjoys a near monopoly on the provision of wireline telecommunications services and may have a wireless affiliate or may be controlled by shareholders who also control a wireless operator. For example, Telcel, which is one of our largest competitors in Mexico, is an affiliate of Telefonos de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V., which provides wireline services in Mexico and was formerly a government-owned monopoly. Similarly, in Peru, we compete with Telefonica Moviles, which is an affiliate of the Telefonica del Peru, S.A.A., which operates wireline services in Peru and was formerly a government-owned 22 monopoly. Our operating companies may be at a competitive disadvantage in these markets because formerly government-owned incumbents or affiliated competitors may have: • close ties with national regulatory authorities; • control over connections to local telephone lines; or • the ability to subsidize competitive services with revenues generated from services they provide on a monopoly or near-monopoly basis. Our operating companies may encounter obstacles and setbacks if local governments adopt policies favoring these competitors or otherwise afford them preferential treatment. As a result, our operating companies may be at a competitive disadvantage to incumbent providers, particularly as our operating companies seek to offer new telecommunications services. d. Our coverage is not as extensive as those of other wireless service providers in our markets, which may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. We have recently expanded the coverage of our networks, particularly in Mexico and Brazil, but our digital mobile networks do not offer nationwide coverage in all of the countries in which we operate and our technology limits our potential roaming partners. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively with cellular and personal communications services providers, many of whom operate cellular and personal communications networks with more extensive areas of service. Additionally, many of these providers have entered into roaming agreements with each other, which permit these providers to offer coverage to their subscribers in each other’s markets. The iDEN technology that we deploy is not compatible with other wireless technologies such as the digital cellular or personal communications services technologies used by our competitors or with other iDEN networks not operating in the 800 MHz spectrum. Although some of the handset models that we sell are compatible with both iDEN 800 MHz and GSM 900/1800 MHz systems, we offer very few of these models and, as such, we are more limited in our ability to offer the breadth of roaming capabilities of our competitors. In addition, our customers are not able to roam on other carriers’ networks where we do not have roaming agreements. These factors may limit our ability to attract certain customers. To date, we have not entered into roaming agreements with respect to GSM services offered in the countries in which our operating companies conduct business, but have entered into agreements that allow our customers to utilize roaming services in other countries using the handsets that are compatible with both iDEN and GSM systems and using other GSM handsets. e. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, we may not be able to attract and retain customers. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. For example, some of our competitors, including American Movil in Brazil, Telecom Personal, S.A. in Argentina and Entel Chile in Chile, have recently launched upgraded network technology, often referred to as 3G technology, which is designed to allow them to offer services that incorporate high speed data services, including internet access and video telephony. These and other future technological advancements may enable other wireless technologies to equal or exceed our current level of service and make the services we offer less competitive. These new technologies generally operate on higher spectrum bands than the 800 MHz spectrum band on which our iDEN technology currently operates. In addition, much of the 800 MHz spectrum that our operating companies are licensed to use is non-contiguous while the 3G technology platforms that are currently available operate only on contiguous spectrum, and, except in Peru, we do not hold rights to use additional spectrum in bands that would facilitate a transition to a new network technology. These factors may make it more difficult or impossible for us to migrate to a new technology if we choose to do so, which makes us heavily reliant on Motorola, as the sole supplier of iDEN technology, to maintain the competitiveness of our services and subscriber equipment. As a result, if Motorola is unwilling or unable to upgrade or improve iDEN technology or develop other technology solutions to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, we will be less able to compete effectively and could lose customers to our competitors. In addition, if we decide to pursue the deployment of a new technology that operates on a higher spectrum band, we will incur costs to acquire this new spectrum band. See “8. Costs and other aspects of a future deployment of advanced digital technology could adversely affect our operations.” for more information. Recently, Motorola’s support of the evolution of the iDEN technology and of the development of new features, functionality and handset models has been adversely affected by Sprint Nextel Corporation’s reduced purchases of iDEN equipment due to its announced plans to migrate to a next generation CDMA network platform. This decline in support may, over time, make it more difficult for us to compete with 23 competitors who offer a wider range of handset models and services. In addition, competition among the differing wireless technologies could: • segment the user markets, which could reduce demand for our technology; and • reduce the resources devoted by third-party suppliers, including Motorola, which supplies all of our current digital mobile technology, to developing or improving the technology for our systems. f. If our wireless communications technology does not perform in a manner that meets customer expectations, we will be unable to attract and retain customers. Customer acceptance of the services we offer is and will continue to be affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance and reliability of our digital mobile networks. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers if we are unable to address and resolve satisfactorily performance or other transmission quality issues as they arise or if these issues: • limit our ability to expand our network coverage or capacity as currently planned; or • place us at a competitive disadvantage to other wireless service providers in our markets. g. We may be limited in our ability to grow unless we expand network capacity and coverage and address increased demands on our business systems and processes as needed. Our subscriber base continues to grow rapidly. To continue to successfully increase our number of subscribers and pursue our business plan, we must economically: • expand the capacity and coverage of our networks; • secure sufficient transmitter and receiver sites at appropriate locations to meet planned system coverage and capacity targets; • obtain adequate quantities of base radios and other system infrastructure equipment; and • obtain an adequate volume and mix of handsets to meet subscriber demand. From time to time, we experience difficulty in obtaining sufficient volumes and types of handsets from Motorola; delays in the development and availability of new handset models; and handset manufacturing quality problems, particularly with respect to new handset models. Our operating performance and ability to retain new customers may be adversely affected if we are not able to timely and efficiently address these matters, meet the demands for our services and address any increased demands on our customer service, billing and other back-office functions. In the next few years, we plan to deploy new systems that are designed to support the expected demands on our customer care and billing functions, but the transition to these new systems could heighten these risks. 2. Because we rely on one supplier to implement our digital mobile networks, any failure of that supplier to perform could adversely affect our operations. Much of the spectrum that our operating companies are licensed to use is non-contiguous, and the iDEN technology is the only widespread, commercially available digital technology that operates on non-contiguous spectrum. As a result, Motorola is currently our sole source for most of the digital network equipment and substantially all of the handsets used throughout our markets, except for the Blackberry handset, which is manufactured by Research in Motion, or RIM. If Motorola fails to deliver system infrastructure equipment and handsets or enhancements to the features and functionality of our networks on a timely, cost-effective basis, we may not be able to adequately service our existing customers or attract new customers. Nextel Communications, a subsidiary of Sprint Nextel Corporation, is the largest customer of Motorola with respect to iDEN technology and, in the past, has provided significant support with respect to new product development for that technology. Sprint Nextel Corporation has announced plans to migrate Nextel’s push-to-talk services to a next generation CDMA network platform, which we believe has contributed to a recent decline in Motorola’s support for the development of new iDEN handset models. As a result, we have had access to a reduced number of new handset models, which has made it more difficult for us to compete effectively in some of our markets where new handset styles and features are heavily valued by customers. Lower levels of iDEN equipment purchases by Sprint Nextel Corporation could also significantly increase our costs for equipment and new network features and handset developments and could impact Motorola’s decision to continue to support iDEN technology beyond their current commitment. In the event Motorola determines not to continue supporting or enhancing our iDEN based infrastructure and handsets, because Sprint Nextel Corporation decreases its use of iDEN technology or otherwise, we may be materially adversely affected. We expect to continue to rely principally on Motorola for the manufacture of a substantial portion of the 24 equipment necessary to construct, enhance and maintain our iDEN-based digital mobile networks and for the manufacture of iDEN compatible handsets. Our operating costs and future capital expenditures may also be affected by Motorola’s success in developing improvements relating to the iDEN technology. For example, Motorola developed a technology upgrade to the iDEN digital mobile network, the 6:1 voice coder software upgrade, which is designed to increase the capacity of iDEN networks for interconnect calls without requiring additional network infrastructure equipment. Beginning in 2004, we started selling handsets that can operate using the new 6:1 voice coder technology, and we have deployed the related network software modifications that are necessary to utilize this technology in some of our markets. We have experienced voice quality problems related to certain types of calls made using the 6:1 voice coder technology and in some markets, we have adjusted the network software to reduce the number of calls completed using the 6:1 voice coder technology in order to balance our network capacity needs with the need to maintain voice quality. Because we have not used the 6:1 voice coder technology to its full capacity, we have invested more capital in our infrastructure to satisfy our network capacity needs than would have been necessary if we had been able to complete a higher percentage of calls using the technology, and we may make similar investments in the future as we optimize our network to meet our capacity and voice quality requirements. If we were to decide to significantly curtail the use of the 6:1 voice coder technology in all of our markets, these investments could be significant. 3. Our reliance on indirect distribution channels for a significant portion of our sales exposes us to the risk that our sales could decline or cost of sales could increase if there are adverse changes in our relationships with, or the condition of, our indirect dealers. Our business depends heavily upon third party distribution channels for securing a substantial portion of the new subscribers to our services. In some of our markets, a significant portion of our sales through these indirect distribution channels is concentrated in a small number of third party dealers. Because these third party dealers are the primary contact between us and the subscriber in many instances, they also play an important role in customer retention. As a result, the volume of our new subscriber additions and our ability to retain subscribers could be adversely affected if these third party dealers terminate their relationship with us, if there are adverse changes in our relationships with these dealers or if the financial condition of these dealers deteriorates. In addition, our profitability could be adversely affected if we increase commissions to these dealers or make other changes to our compensation arrangements with them. 4. We operate exclusively in foreign markets, and our assets, customers and cash flows are concentrated in Latin America, which presents risks to our operating plans. a. We face economic and political risks in our markets, which may limit our ability to implement our strategy and our financial flexibility and may disrupt our operations or hurt our performance. Our operations depend on the economies of the markets in which our operating companies conduct business, all of which are considered to be emerging markets. These markets are in countries with economies in various stages of development or structural reform, some of which are subject to volatile economic cycles and significant, rapid fluctuations in terms of commodity prices, local consumer prices, employment levels, gross domestic product, interest rates and inflation rates, which have been generally higher, and in prior years, significantly higher than the inflation rate in the United States. Specifically, in the last two years, the inflation rate in Argentina has risen significantly, and we expect that it may continue to rise in the next several years, which will increase our costs and could reduce our profitability in Argentina. If these economic fluctuations and higher inflation rates make it more difficult for customers to pay for our products and services, we may experience lower demand for our products and services and a decline in the growth of their customer base and in revenues. In addition, recent economic indicators have revealed that the United States economy is currently in a downturn and may soon be in a recession. To the extent that this downturn continues or worsens, the economies of the markets in which we operate, particularly in Mexico, could be adversely affected, which could lower demand for our products and services and adversely impact our growth and profitability. In recent years, the economies in some of the markets in which we operate have also been negatively affected by volatile political conditions and, in some instances, by significant intervention by the relevant government authorities relating to economic and currency exchange policies. We are unable to predict the impact that presidential or other contested local or national elections and the associated transfer of power from incumbent officials or political parties to elected victors, such as the recent elections in Argentina, may have on the local economy or the growth and development of the local telecommunications industry. Changes in leadership or in the ruling party in the countries in which we operate may affect the economic programs developed under the prior 25 administration, which in turn, may adversely affect the economies in the countries in which we operate. Although political, economic and social conditions differ in each country in which we currently operate, political and economic developments in one country or in the United States may affect our business as a whole, including our access to international capital markets. b. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and limitations on the expatriation or conversion of currencies, which may result in significant financial charges, increased costs of operations or decreased demand for our products and services. Nearly all of our revenues are earned in non-U.S. currencies, while a significant portion of our capital and operating expenditures, including imported network equipment and handsets, and a significant amount of our outstanding debt, is denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars. The volatility of currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, including as a result of currency devaluations, has affected our financial results. In some instances, changes in relative currency valuations and other economic changes in our markets have resulted in significant charges against our earnings and negative adjustments to the carrying value of our assets. Any depreciation of local currencies in the countries in which our operating companies conduct business may result in increased costs to us for imported equipment and may, at the same time, decrease demand for our products and services in the affected markets. If our operating companies distribute dividends in local currencies in the future, the amount of cash we receive will also be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and currency devaluations. In addition, some of the countries in which we have operations do or may restrict the expatriation or conversion of currency. c. Our operating companies are subject to local laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate, which could impact our financial results. Our operations are subject to local laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, which may differ from those in the United States. We could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In some foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, persons may engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, contractors and agents will not take actions in violations of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. d. We pay significant import duties on our network equipment and handsets, and any increases could impact our financial results. Our operations are highly dependent upon the successful and cost-efficient importation of network equipment and handsets from North America and, to a lesser extent, from Europe and Asia. Any significant increase in import duties in the future could significantly increase our costs. To the extent we cannot pass these costs on to our customers, our financial results will be negatively impacted. In the countries in which our operating companies conduct business, network equipment and handsets may be subject to significant import duties and other taxes. e. We are subject to foreign taxes in the countries in which we operate, which may reduce amounts we receive from our operating companies or may increase our tax costs. Many of the foreign countries in which we operate have increasingly turned to new taxes, as well as aggressive interpretations of current taxes, as a method of increasing revenue. For example, our operating company in Brazil is required to pay two types of income taxes, which include a corporate income tax and a social contribution tax. In addition, our operating company in Brazil is subject to various types of non-income taxes, including value-added tax, excise tax, service tax, importation tax and property tax. The provisions of new tax laws may attempt to prohibit us from passing these taxes on to our customers. These taxes may reduce the amount of earnings that we can generate from our services or in some cases may result in operating losses. Distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, received from our operating companies may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by some countries in which these entities operate. Any of these taxes will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive from those operating companies. See ‘‘— K. Operating Companies” for more information. In general, a U.S. corporation may claim a foreign tax credit against its Federal income tax expense for foreign withholding taxes and, under certain circumstances, for its share of foreign income taxes paid directly by foreign 26 corporate entities in which the company owns 10% or more of the voting stock. Our ability to claim foreign tax credits is, however, subject to numerous limitations, and we may incur incremental tax costs as a result of these limitations or because we do not have U.S. Federal taxable income. We may also be required to include in our income for U.S. Federal income tax purposes our proportionate share of specified earnings of our foreign corporate subsidiaries that are classified as controlled foreign corporations, without regard to whether distributions have been actually received from these subsidiaries. Nextel Brazil has received tax assessment notices from state and federal Brazilian tax authorities asserting deficiencies in tax payments related primarily to value added taxes, import duties and matters surrounding the definition and classification of equipment and services. Nextel Brazil has filed various petitions disputing these assessments. In some cases we have received favorable decisions, which are currently being appealed by the respective governmental authorities. In other cases, our petitions have been denied and we are currently appealing those decisions. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our potential tax obligations in Brazil. f. We have entered into a number of agreements that are subject to enforcement in foreign countries, which may limit efficient dispute resolution. A number of the agreements that we and our operating companies enter into with third parties are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of or through arbitration proceedings in, the countries or regions in which the operations are located. We cannot accurately predict whether these forums will provide effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. Even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain or enforce relief in the United States is also uncertain. 5. The costs we incur to connect our operating companies’ networks with those of other carriers are subject to local laws in the countries in which they operate and may increase, which could adversely impact our financial results. Our operating companies must connect their telecommunication networks with those of other carriers in order to provide the services we offer. We incur costs relating to these interconnection arrangements and for local and long distance transport services relating to the connection of our transmitter sites and other network equipment. These costs include interconnection charges and fees, charges for terminating calls on the other carriers’ networks and transport costs, most of which are measured based on the level of our use of the related services. We are able to recover a portion of these costs through revenues earned from charges we are entitled to bill other carriers for terminating calls on our network, but because users of mobile telecommunications services who purchase those services under contract generally, and business customers like ours in particular, tend to make more calls that terminate on other carriers’ networks and because we have a smaller number of customers than most other carriers, we usually incur more charges than we are entitled to receive under these arrangements. The terms of the interconnection and transport arrangements, including the rates that we pay, are subject to local regulation in most of the countries in which we operate, and often require us to negotiate agreements with the other carriers, some of whom are our competitors, in order to provide our services. Our costs relating to these interconnection and transport arrangements are subject to fluctuation both as a result of changes in regulations in the countries in which we operate and the negotiations with the other carriers. For example, some of our competitors in Brazil, through Brazil’s Associacao Nacional das Operadoras de Celular, or ACEL, recently filed a petition against Anatel to challenge the partial bill and keep settlement process. The preliminary injunction was denied by the Brazilian courts. Changes in the aforementioned factors could result in increased costs for the related services that we may not be able to recover through increased revenues, which could adversely impact our financial results. 6. Government regulations determine how we operate in various countries, which could limit our growth and strategic plans. In each market in which we operate, one or more regulatory entities regulate the licensing, construction, acquisition, ownership and operation of our wireless communications systems. Adoption of new regulations, changes in the current telecommunications laws or regulations or changes in the manner in which they are interpreted or applied could adversely affect our operations. In some markets, we are unable, or have limitations on our ability, to provide some types of services we have planned to offer, such as participation in calling party pays programs. These limitations, or similar regulatory prohibitions or limitations on our services that may arise in the future could increase our costs, reduce our revenues or make it more difficult for us to compete. 27 Further, the regulatory schemes in the countries in which we operate allow third parties, including our competitors, to challenge our actions. For instance, some of our competitors have challenged the validity of some of our licenses or the scope of services we provide under those licenses, in administrative or judicial proceedings, particularly in Chile. If our competitors were to challenge the results of auctions in which we are a participant, it could adversely affect our ability to offer services and our ability to acquire the rights to use spectrum that would provide us with the ability to deploy new technologies that support new services. Finally, in some of our markets, local governments have adopted very stringent rules and regulations related to the placement and construction of wireless towers, which can significantly impede the planned expansion of our service coverage area, eliminate existing towers and impose new and onerous taxes and fees. These issues affect our ability to operate in each of our markets, and therefore impact our business strategies. In addition, local governments have placed embargoes on a number of our cell sites owned by our operating companies in Argentina and Brazil. If we are not able to successfully overcome these embargoes, we may have to remove the cell sites and find a more acceptable location. 7. If our licenses to provide mobile services are not renewed, or are modified or revoked, our business may be restricted. Wireless communications licenses and spectrum allocations are subject to ongoing review and, in some cases, to modification or early termination for failure to comply with applicable regulations. If our operating companies fail to comply with the terms of their licenses and other regulatory requirements, including installation deadlines and minimum loading or service availability requirements, their licenses could be revoked. Further, compliance with these requirements is a condition for eligibility for license renewal. Most of our wireless communications licenses have fixed terms and are not renewed automatically. Because governmental authorities have discretion as to the grant or renewal of licenses, our licenses may not be renewed or, if renewed, renewal may not be on acceptable economic terms. For example, under existing regulations, our licenses in Brazil and Peru are renewable once, and no regulations presently exist regarding how or whether additional renewals will be granted in future periods. In Mexico, we have filed applications to renew about 30 of our licenses, 16 of which have expired. While we expect that these renewals will be granted, if some or all of these renewals are not granted, it could have an adverse effect on our business. 8. Costs and other aspects of a future deployment of advanced digital technology could adversely affect our operations. We have recently acquired rights to use 1.9 GHz spectrum in Peru that require us to deploy new digital network technology within specified timeframes throughout Peru, including in areas that we do not currently serve. Our deployments of new digital technologies to offer our customers new and advanced services in Peru will require significant capital expenditures as would any future acquisition of spectrum rights and deployment of new digital technologies in other operating markets. Those expenditures could increase in the event of unforeseen delays, cost overruns, unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes, engineering design changes, problems with network or systems compatibility, equipment unavailability and technological or other complications, such as our inability to successfully coordinate this change with our customer care, billing, order fulfillment and other back-office operations. In addition, a deployment of new digital technologies will result in incremental operating expenses prior to fully launching services. Furthermore, our operating results could be significantly negatively affected if we are not able to offer competitive products and services or if we are not successful in attracting and retaining customers in markets in which we choose to deploy a new technology. Additionally, we may be required to raise additional funds in order to finance the costs associated with the development and deployment of a new technology and, if required, the acquisition of related spectrum rights in one or more of our markets. To do so, we may issue shares of common stock or incur new debt. The terms and conditions of any financing may not be similar to those we have experienced in the past and may impose significant restrictions on our business. See “10. Our current and future debt may limit our flexibility and increase our risk of default.” for more information. 9. Agreements with Motorola reduce our operational flexibility and may adversely affect our growth or operating results. We have entered into agreements with Motorola that impose limitations and conditions on our ability to use other technologies that would displace our existing iDEN digital mobile networks. These agreements may delay or prevent us from deploying new or different technologies that perform better or are available at a lower cost because 28 of the additional economic costs and other impediments to change arising under the Motorola agreements. In addition, if Motorola manufactures, or elects to manufacture, the equipment utilizing the alternate technology that we elect to deploy, we must give Motorola the opportunity to supply 50% of our infrastructure requirements for the equipment utilizing the alternate technology for three years. If we utilize alternate equipment suppliers, it may limit our ability to obtain the most favorable volume pricing. Furthermore, in connection with our handset supply agreement with Motorola, we committed to annually escalating handset purchases and certain pricing parameters for handsets linked to the volume of our purchases. If we do not meet the specified handset volume commitments, we would be required to pay an additional amount based on any shortfall of actual purchased handsets compared to the related annual volume commitment. 10. Our current and future debt may limit our flexibility and increase our risk of default. As of December 31, 2007, the book value of our long-term debt was $2,196.1 million, including $1,200.0 million of 3.125% convertible notes due 2012, $350.0 million of 2.75% convertible notes due 2025, $393.0 million for syndicated loan facilities in Mexico and Brazil, $172.3 million in obligations associated with the sale and leaseback of communication towers, $72.9 million in capital lease obligations and $7.9 million in spectrum license financing. We may incur additional debt in the future to provide funding for, among other things, capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our business, including the expansion of our existing networks or deployment of new network technologies, acquisitions of spectrum, other assets or businesses and for other corporate purposes as described below. Our existing debt and debt we may incur in the future could: • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete and increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing that we may need to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or other corporate requirements. Furthermore, certain of our financing agreements include covenants that impose restrictions on our business, and similar restrictions may be contained in future financing agreements. If we are subject to these restrictions, we may be unable to raise additional financing, compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities, which may affect our ability to generate revenues and profits. Examples of the types of covenants that may limit how we conduct business include those contained in the syndicated loan facilities to which Nextel Mexico and Nextel Brazil are parties that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • prepay subordinated indebtedness; • make investments and other restricted payments; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create liens; • sell assets; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. These syndicated loan facilities also require Nextel Mexico and Nextel Brazil, as applicable, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial tests. If Nextel Mexico or Nextel Brazil are not able to meet the applicable ratios and satisfy other tests, or if we fail to comply with any of the other restrictive covenants noted above or that are contained in any other financing agreements, we will be in default with respect to one or more of the applicable financing agreements, which in turn may result in defaults under the remaining financing arrangements, giving our lenders the right to require us to repay all amounts then outstanding. In addition, under the terms of the Nextel Brazil syndicated loan facility, we have pledged the shares of our Brazil operating entities to secure the obligations of Nextel Brazil under that facility. The grant of such a security interest may make it more difficult for Nextel Brazil to secure additional financing that it may require. 29 Furthermore, our business plans or the business environments in which we operate could change, which could require us to obtain additional funding including: • a decision by us to deploy new network technologies, in addition to the planned deployment in Peru, or to offer new communications services in one or more of our markets; • our expansion into new markets or further geographic expansion in our existing markets, including the construction of additional portions of our network; or • acquisitions of spectrum licenses, either through government sponsored auctions or through acquisitions of third parties, acquisitions of assets or businesses or other strategic transactions. Our funding needs could also be affected by changes in economic conditions in any of our markets generally, or competitive practices in the mobile wireless telecommunications industry from those currently prevailing or from those now anticipated, or by other presently unexpected circumstances that may arise that have a material effect on the cash flow or profitability of our mobile wireless business. Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of the identified currently available sources, and could require us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. Our ability to meet our existing or future debt obligations and to reduce our indebtedness will depend on our future performance and the other cash requirements of our business. Our performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions and financial, business, political and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate cash flow from operations at or above current levels, that we will be able to meet our cash interest payments on all of our debt or that the related assets currently owned by us will continue to benefit us in the future. In addition, we continue to assess opportunities to raise additional funding on attractive terms and conditions and at times that do not involve any of these events or circumstances and may do so if the opportunity presents itself. However, our ability to seek additional capital, if necessary, is subject to a variety of additional factors that we cannot presently predict with certainty, including: • the commercial success of our operations; • the volatility and demand of the capital markets; and • the future market prices of our securities. If we are unable to generate cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may try to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We cannot assure you that sufficient future borrowings will be available to pay or refinance our debt. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain kinds of change of control events, we may be required to repurchase or repay a significant portion of our outstanding debt. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase or repayment. 11. Any modification or termination of our trademark license with Nextel Communications could increase our costs. Nextel Communications has licensed to us the right to use “Nextel” and other of its trademarks on a perpetual royalty-free basis in Latin America. However, Nextel Communications may terminate the license on 60 days notice if we commit one of several specified defaults (namely, failure to maintain agreed quality controls or a change in control of NII Holdings). If there is a change in control of one of our subsidiaries, upon 30 days notice, Nextel Communications may terminate the sublicense granted by us to the subsidiary with respect to the licensed marks. The loss of the use of the “Nextel” name and trademark could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 12. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We continue to monitor and improve our internal controls as needed. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our 30 operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. 13. We have significant intangible assets that may not generate adequate value to satisfy our obligations in the event of liquidation. If we were liquidated, the value of our assets may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, primarily telecommunications licenses. The value of these licenses will depend mostly upon the success of our digital mobile network business and the growth of the SMR and wireless communications industries in general. Moreover, the transfer of licenses in liquidation would be subject to governmental or regulatory approvals that may not be obtained or that may adversely impact the value of such licenses. Our net tangible book value was $1,757.9 million as of December 31, 2007. 14. Concerns about health risks associated with wireless equipment may reduce the demand for our services. Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through increased costs of doing business, additional governmental regulation that sets emissions standards or otherwise limits or prohibits our devices from being marketed and sold, a reduction in subscribers, reduced network usage per subscriber or reduced financing available to the mobile communications industry. Further research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot be sure that these studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. 15. Our forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current beliefs. “Safe Harbor” Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K are not historical or current facts, but deal with potential future circumstances and developments. They can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “may,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “should” or “anticipates” or other comparable words, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. We caution you that these forward-looking statements are only predictions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, including technical uncertainties, financial variations and changes in the regulatory environment, industry growth and trend predictions. We have attempted to identify, in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual future experience and results to differ from our current expectations regarding the relevant matter or subject area. The operation and results of our wireless communications business also may be subject to the effects of other risks and uncertainties in addition to the other qualifying factors identified in this Item, including, but not limited to: • our ability to meet the operating goals established by our business plan; • general economic conditions in the United States or in Latin America and in the market segments that we are targeting for our digital mobile services; • the political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate, including political instability, which may affect the economies of our markets and the regulatory schemes in these countries; • substantive terms of any international financial aid package that may be made available to any country in which our operating companies conduct business; • the impact of foreign exchange volatility in our markets as compared to the U.S. dollar and related currency depreciation in countries in which our operating companies conduct business; • reasonable access to and the successful performance of the technology being deployed in our service areas, and improvements thereon, including technology deployed in connection with the introduction of digital two-way mobile data or Internet connectivity services in our markets; • the availability of adequate quantities of system infrastructure and subscriber equipment and components at reasonable pricing to meet our service deployment and marketing plans and customer demand; • Motorola’s ability and willingness to provide handsets and related equipment and software applications or to develop new technologies or features for us, including the timely development and availability of new handsets with expanded applications and features; 31 • the risk of deploying new technologies, including the potential need for additional funding, the risk that new services supported by the new technology will not attract enough subscribers to support the related costs of deploying or operating the new technology, the need to significantly increase our employee base and the potential distraction of management; • our ability to successfully scale our billing, collection, customer care and similar back-office operations to keep pace with customer growth, increased system usage rates and growth; • the success of efforts to improve and satisfactorily address any issues relating to our digital mobile network performance; • future legislation or regulatory actions relating to our SMR services, other wireless communication services or telecommunications generally; • the ability to achieve and maintain market penetration and average subscriber revenue levels sufficient to provide financial viability to our digital mobile network business; • the quality and price of similar or comparable wireless communications services offered or to be offered by our competitors, including providers of cellular services and personal communications services; • market acceptance of our new service offerings; • our ability to access sufficient debt or equity capital to meet any future operating and financial needs; and • other risks and uncertainties described in this annual report on Form 10-K and from time to time in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 