Risk Factors The current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As widely reported, economic conditions and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in prices of publicly trade securities, severely diminished liquidity, severely restricted credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address these extreme market conditions. Many economists have predicted that the United States economy, and possibly the global economy, may enter into a prolonged recession. We believe the current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our operations. Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions may cause consumers to reign in their spending generally, the impact of which may be that they stop or delay their purchases of our genetic tests and consumer products. If these circumstances persist or continue to worsen, our future operating results could be adversely affected, particularly relative to our current expectations. We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business. Our industry is highly competitive. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, consumer products companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Furthermore, many of these competitors are more experienced than we are in discovering, commercializing and marketing products. These greater resources may allow our competitors to discover important genes or genetic markers before we do. If we do not discover genes that are linked to a health risk, characterize their functions, develop genetic tests and related information services based on such discoveries, obtain regulatory and other approvals and launch these services, or products 19 Table of Contents before our competitors, then our ability to generate sales and revenue will be reduced or eliminated, and could make our products obsolete. We expect competition to intensify in our industry as technical advances are made and become more widely known. The market for personalized health generally and genetic risk assessment tests in particular is unproven. Competition in the field of personalized health is defined, but the markets and customer base are not well established. Adoption of technologies in this emerging field requires substantial market development. Although our primary customer, Alticor, has begun to develop the direct-to-consumer market for personalized health, the overall market is unproven and there can be no assurance that other channels for marketing our products can be developed. As a result, there can be no assurance that our products will be successful upon launch or that they can be sold at sufficient volumes to make them profitable. If our potential customers do not accept our products, or take a longer time to accept them than we anticipate, it will reduce our anticipated sales, resulting in additional losses to us. The market for genetic risk assessment tests, as part of the field of personalized health, is at an early stage of development and may not continue to grow. The scientific community, including us, has only a limited understanding of the role of genes in predicting disease. When we identify a gene or genetic marker that may influence risk for disease, we may conduct clinical trials to confirm the initial scientific discovery and to establish the scientific discovery's clinical utility in the marketplace. The results of these clinical trials could limit or delay our ability to bring a test to market, reduce a test's acceptance by our potential customers or cause us to cancel the program, any of which would limit or delay sales and cause additional losses to us. The marketplace may never accept our products, and we may never be able to sell our products at a profit. Further, we may not complete development of or commercialize our other genetic risk assessment tests. The success of our genetic risk assessment tests will depend upon their acceptance as being useful and cost-effective to the individuals who purchase these products, the physicians and other members of the medical community who recommend or prescribe them, as well as third-party payers, such as insurance companies and the government. Our efforts to commercialize our intellectual property have had little success outside of the Alticor channel to date. We can only achieve broad market acceptance with substantial education about the benefits and limitations of genetic risk assessment tests while providing the tests at a fair cost. There are numerous competitors with various and different business models and motivations. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our potential competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, which may allow these competitors to discover important genes or successfully commercialize these discoveries before us. If we do not discover genes that are linked to a health risk, characterize their functions, develop genetic tests and related information services based on such discoveries, obtain regulatory and other approvals, and launch these services or products before competitors, we could be adversely affected. Additionally, some of our competitors receive data and funding from government agencies. To the extent our competitors receive data and funding from those agencies at no cost to them, they may have a competitive advantage over us. Technological changes may cause our tests to become obsolete. We have to date focused our efforts on genetic tests based on a small number of candidate genes. It is now possible to use array technology to conduct whole genome association studies for risk assessment, which may make our technologies obsolete. To date, our tests have been developed on 20 Table of Contents behalf of, and marketed to, our primary customer, Alticor. In order to develop new customers and markets for our genetic risk assessment tests, we will be required to invest substantial additional capital and other resources into further developing these tests. We currently have only one distributor for our genetic risk assessment tests and it is our largest shareholder.. To date, we have had only one distributor of any size for our genetic risk assessment tests, Alticor, which is also our largest stockholder. We have limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic risk assessment tests on our own. We have relied and plan to continue to rely significantly on our sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with Alticor, which seek to leverage Alticor's established marketing and distribution channels. If Alticor does not successfully market our products, sales will decrease and our losses will increase. We may attempt to negotiate marketing and distribution agreements with third parties, although there can be no assurances we will be able to do so. As a result of our dependence upon Alticor, in some cases, we have and may continue to dedicate our resources toward the development of genetic test panels that have limited or no exclusive intellectual property benefit to us, but meet specific needs of Alticor. Our consumer products business is heavily concentrated on one customer. We currently market and sell our line of branded nutritional supplements to major discount retailers, drugstores, grocery stores and warehouse clubs in the United States, but 52% of our revenues in this business segment is derived from sales to one customer. Since this business is dependent upon consumers, we rely on one customer to a large extent to assist us in our promotional and advertising materials, as well as placement of our products in its stores. We are challenged constantly to develop innovative ways to maintain the interest and attention of our existing consumers and attract new consumers, thereby enhancing our largest customer's interest in marketing and distributing our products. Further, we are reliant upon contract manufacturers, logistics companies and technology partners to source and distribute these nutritional products. In each case, problems with these third parties could result in manufacturing, logistical, sourcing and distribution problems that could have a material adverse effect on our consumer products business. The profitability of our consumer products businesses may suffer if we are unable to establish and maintain close working relationships with our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 74% of our revenues were derived from our consumer products business, which consists of developing, marketing and selling nutritional supplements and products into retail consumer channels. This business relies to a great extent on close working relationships with our customers, rather than long-term exclusive contractual arrangements. Customer concentration in this business is relatively high and one customer accounted for approximately 52% of our revenues in that business. In addition, customers of our branded and private label consumer products, generally large food, drug and mass retailers, purchase those products through purchase orders only and are not obligated to make future purchases. We therefore rely on our ability to deliver quality products on time in order to retain existing and generate new customers. If we fail to meet our customers' needs or expectations, whether due to manufacturing issues that affect quality or capacity issues that result in late shipments, we will harm our reputation and customer relationships and likely lose customers. Additionally, if we are unable to maintain close working relationships with our customers, sales of all of our products and our ability to successfully launch new products could suffer. The loss of a major customer and the failure to generate new accounts could significantly reduce our revenues or prevent us from achieving projected growth. 21 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and expect these losses to continue for some time. We incurred losses from operations of $6.9 million in 2006, $6.2 million in 2007 and $6.7 million in 2008. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $81 million. Our losses result primarily from research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets. Although we have recently begun to generate revenues from sales of our genetic risk assessment tests and nutritional products, these may not be sufficient to result in net income in the foreseeable future. We will need to generate significant revenue to continue our research and development programs and achieve profitability. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will achieve profitability. We are subject to government regulation, which may significantly increase our costs and delay introduction of future products. Changes in existing regulations at either the state or federal level could require advance regulatory approval of genetic risk assessment tests, resulting in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of our activities without regulatory approval. If our genetic tests ever require regulatory approval, on either a state or federal level, then the costs of introduction may increase or marketing and sales of products may be significantly delayed. We currently are performing the testing procedures in our own CLIA-Certified genetic testing laboratory. There are additional state and local regulations governing the operation of this laboratory. An inability to maintain our CLIA certification or comply with any applicable state or local requirements could reduce our anticipated revenue and increase our net losses. In September 2006, the FDA issued draft guidelines pursuant to which it would require pre-market review of certain types of in vitro diagnostic tests. Although we do not think that our current genetic tests and those in development are covered by the draft guidelines, the FDA is currently evaluating and could assert pre-market review of all types of genetic tests. An inability to manage our growth or successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. Our business is in a period of growth, with total revenues increasing from $4.7 million in 2006 to $10.0 million in 2008 largely due to the acquisition of the Alan James Group in August 2007, as well as revenue from Alticor, a related party. We may make more acquisitions in the future. The successful integration of acquired businesses requires a significant effort and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance and administration and information technologies. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisition of the Alan James Group could become impaired, requiring us to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for our acquisition of the Alan James Group, we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of intangible assets has been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations in future periods. 22 Table of Contents If we deliver products with defects, our credibility may be harmed, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our product liability insurance coverage. The manufacturing and marketing of consumer, professional diagnostic and nutritional products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated negative publicity. In addition, product development and production of our products are extremely complex and could expose our products to defects. Any defects could harm our credibility and decrease market acceptance of our products. In particular, our marketing of nutritional products may cause us to be subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, claims that the nutritional products have inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but it is often difficult to obtain, is expensive and may not be available in the future on economically acceptable terms. In addition, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. We may become subject to product liability claims that, even if they are without merit, could result in significant legal defense costs to us. If we are held liable for claims for which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, those claims could materially damage our business and our financial condition. Any product liability claim against us or resulting recall of our products could create significant negative publicity. Our earnings from the sale of branded nutritional supplements may decline as a result of general industry trends and our increased spending on advertising and promotion in order to maintain our sales of these products. In 2008, the aggregate sales of our brand name nutritional products, including among others Ginsana®, Ginkoba™, and Venastat® demonstrated a slight increase from the prior year. We believe that these products are performing consistently within these segments; and continue to support the products with advertising; however, some of the segments in which we compete have shown a decline year over year. We are subject to future distribution review and possibly loss (just like any other product carried by retailers) as retailers conduct their annual category reviews. We face competition with private label offerings as well as other branded product introductions, while our opportunities for new distribution on the existing product lines are limited. As a result, given the competitive and current economic situation in the U.S., we do not expect sales growth of our existing nutritional products and may even experience declines in the future. Failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products could significantly harm our customer relationships and product sales. Our nutritional products business is particularly subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes, and we may not be able to respond to these changes in a timely or commercially appropriate manner. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which could harm our customer relationships and cause losses to our market share. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: •accurately anticipate customer needs; •innovate and develop new products; •successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; •price our products competitively; 23 Table of Contents •manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and •differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to our current products to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could become obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Sales of our specific nutritional supplements could be negatively impacted by media attention or other news developments that challenge the safety and effectiveness of those specific nutritional products. Most growth in the nutritional products industry is attributed to new products that tend to generate greater attention in the marketplace than do older products. Positive media attention resulting from new scientific studies or announcements can spur rapid growth in individual segments of the market, and also impact individual brands. Conversely, news that challenges individual segments or products can have a negative impact on the industry overall as well as on sales of the challenged segments or products. Many of our nutritional products serve well-established market segments and, absent unforeseen new developments or trends, are not expected to benefit from rapid growth and may, in fact, suffer flat or declining sales as they mature. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful due to acquisitions. We completed the acquisition of the business of the Alan James Group in 2006, which makes it difficult to analyze our pre-acquisition and post-acquisition results of operations and to compare them from period to period. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful due to this acquisition and possible future acquisitions and are not indications of our future performance. Any future acquisitions will also make our results difficult to compare from period to period in the future. We may be delisted from the NYSE Alternext US LLC resulting in a more limited market for our common stock. In December 2008, we were notified of our failure to comply with the NYSE Alternext US continued listing standards under section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide because our stockholders' equity was less than $6,000,000 and we have had losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. As of December 31, 2008 our stockholders' equity was $4.5 million. On January 27, 2009, we submitted to the exchange a plan to regain compliance with the exchange's continued listing requirements. This plan consists of several elements, but is primarily focused on increasing the sales of our products and services and raising additional equity capital. If our plan is not accepted, if we do not make progress toward regaining compliance consistent with our plan, or if we are not in compliance at the end of the plan period, then our common stock may be delisted from the exchange. If the NYSE Alternext US delists our common stock, we anticipate that our common stock would be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or possibly the so-called "pink sheets." Even if our common stock is quoted on such systems, a delisting by the NYSE Alternext US could hurt our investors by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Additionally, a delisting could negatively affect us by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to access public capital markets. If we fail to obtain additional capital, or obtain it on unfavorable terms, then we may have to end our research and development programs and other operations. We expect that our current and anticipated financial resources are adequate to maintain our current and planned operations for at least the next twelve months. If we are not generating sufficient 24 Table of Contents cash or cannot raise additional capital during the next twelve months, we will be unable to fund our business operations and will be required to seek other strategic alternatives. Our future capital needs depend on many factors. We may need capital for the commercial launch of additional genetic tests, continued research and development efforts, obtaining and protecting patents and administrative expenses. Based on current economic conditions additional financing may not be available when needed, or, if available, it may not be available on favorable terms. If we cannot obtain additional funding on acceptable terms when needed, we may have to discontinue operations, or, at a minimum, curtail one or more of our research and development programs. If we are unsuccessful in establishing additional strategic alliances, our ability to develop and market products and services may be damaged. Entering into strategic alliances, in addition to our relationship with Alticor, for the development and commercialization of products and services based on our discoveries is an important element of our business strategy. We anticipate entering into additional collaborative arrangements with Alticor. In addition, we may enter into strategic arrangements with other parties in the future. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. If we fail to maintain our existing alliance with Alticor or establish additional strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements, then our ability to develop and market products and services will be damaged. In addition, the terms of any future strategic alliances may be unfavorable to us or these strategic alliances may be unsuccessful. If we fail to obtain patent protection for our products and preserve our trade secrets, then competitors may develop competing products and services, which will likely decrease our sales and market share. Our success will partly depend on our ability to obtain patent protection in the United States and in other countries for our products and services. In addition, our success will also depend upon our ability to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We own rights to twenty issued U.S. patents and have a number of additional U.S. patent applications pending. We have also been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S. patents and patent applications pending. Our patent positions, and those of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize products and services depends on our ability to: •obtain patents; •obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others; •prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and •protect trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may never afford meaningful protection for our technology or products or provide us with a competitive advantage. If the patents are not issued to us, we can only rely on common law trademark rights to protect these trademarks and our trade dress. Additionally, in general nutritional products are not patentable and instead we must rely on trademark rights to protect our products. Common law trademark rights do not provide the same level of protection as afforded by a United States federal registration of a trademark. Also, common law trademark rights are limited to the geographic area in which the trademark is actually used. Further, others may develop competing products, which avoid legally infringing upon, or conflicting with, our patents. There is no assurance that another company will not replicate one or more of our products, and this may harm our ability to do business. In 25 Table of Contents addition, competitors may challenge any patents issued to us, and these patents may subsequently be narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, with confidentiality agreements. The third parties we contract with may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. If they do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Our competitors may discover or independently develop our trade secrets. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our costs or prevent us from developing or marketing our products or services. We may not have rights under patents or patent applications that are related to our current or proposed products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, to develop or sell any proposed products or services with patent rights controlled by third parties, our collaborators or ourselves may seek, or may be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents and patent applications. If this occurs, we may have to pay license fees, royalties or both, to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, our collaborators or we may be prohibited from developing or selling our products or services. If third parties believe our products or services infringe upon their patents, they could bring legal proceedings against us seeking damages or seeking to enjoin us from testing, manufacturing or marketing our products or services. Any litigation could result in substantial expenses to us and significant diversion of attention by our technical and management personnel. Even if we prevail, the time, cost and diversion of resources of patent litigation would likely damage our business. If the other parties in any patent litigation brought against us are successful, in addition to any liability for damages, we may have to cease the infringing activity or obtain a costly license. Ethical, legal and social issues related to genetic testing may reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised concerns regarding the appropriate utilization and the confidentiality of information provided by genetic testing. Genetic tests for assessing a person's likelihood of developing a chronic disease have focused public attention on the need to protect the privacy of genetic information. For example, concerns have been expressed that insurance carriers and employers may use these tests to discriminate on the basis of genetic information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities prohibiting genetic testing or calling for limits on or regulating the use of genetic testing, particularly for diseases for which there is no known cure. Any of these scenarios would decrease demand for our products and result in substantial losses. Our dependence on key executives and scientists could adversely impact the development and management of our business. Our success substantially depends on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key employees, it could damage our development programs and our business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled managerial and scientific personnel. The pool of personnel with the skill that we require is limited. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense. We compete with numerous pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, as well as universities and non-profit research organizations in the highly competitive Boston, Massachusetts business area. Our current senior management team is employed by 26 Table of Contents us under agreements that may be terminated by them for any reason upon adequate notice. There can be no assurances, therefore, that we will be able to retain our senior executives or replace them, if necessary. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. If Alticor enters a business in competition with ours, certain of our directors might have a conflict of interest. In conjunction with our strategic alliance with Alticor, we have agreed to certain terms for allocating opportunities as permitted under Section 122(17) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This agreement, as set forth in the Purchase Agreement, regulates and defines the conduct of certain of our affairs as they may involve Alticor as our majority stockholder and its affiliates, and our powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of our officers and directors in connection with corporate opportunities. Except under certain circumstances, Alticor and its affiliates have the right to engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business or have an interest in the same classes or categories of corporate opportunities as we do. If Alticor or one of our directors appointed by Alticor and its affiliates acquire knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Alticor, its affiliates and us, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Alticor and its affiliates will not have a duty to inform us about the corporate opportunity. In addition, will not be liable to us or to you for breach of any fiduciary duty as a stockholder of ours for not informing us of the corporate opportunity, keeping it for its own account, or referring it to another person. Additionally, except under limited circumstances, if an officer or employee of Alticor who is also one of our directors is offered a corporate opportunity, such opportunity shall not belong to us. In addition, we agreed that such director will have satisfied his duties to us and not be liable to us or to you in connection with such opportunity. The terms of this agreement will terminate on the date that no person who is a director, officer or employee of ours is also a director, officer, or employee of Alticor or its affiliates. We may be prohibited from fully using our net operating loss carryforwards, which could affect our financial performance. As a result of the losses incurred since inception, we have not recorded a federal income tax provision and have recorded a valuation allowance against all future tax benefits. As of December 31, 2008, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $59.3 million and $1.2 million, respectively, for federal income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2028. As of December 31, 2008, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $23.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for state income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2013. Our ability to use these net operating loss and credit carryforwards is subject to restrictions contained in the Internal Revenue Code which provide for limitations on our utilization of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards following a greater than 50% ownership change during the prescribed testing period. We have experienced two such ownership changes. One change arose in March 2003 and the other was in June 1999. As a result, our net operating loss carryforwards that relate to periods prior to March 2003 and June 1999 are limited in utilization. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of the carryforwards prior to utilization. In addition, in order to realize the future tax benefits of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, we must generate taxable income, of which there is no assurance. 27 Table of Contents Our Series A Preferred Stock has certain rights that are senior to common stockholder rights and this may reduce the value of our common stock. Our Series A Preferred Stock, which was issued to Alticor in March 2003, accrues dividends at the rate of 8% of the original purchase price per year, payable only when and if declared by the Board of Directors and are non-cumulative. If we declare a distribution, with certain exceptions, payable in securities of other persons, evidences of indebtedness issued by us or other persons, assets (excluding cash dividends) or options or rights to purchase any such securities or evidences of indebtedness, then, in each such case the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a proportionate share of any such distribution as though the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock were the holders of the number of shares of our common stock into which their respective shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible as of the record date fixed for the determination of the holders of our common stock entitled to receive such distribution. As of December 31, 2008, our Series A Preferred Stock was convertible into 28,160,200 shares of our common stock, which is subject to standard antidilution protections as well as adjustments in the event we issue any shares of capital stock for a price lower than the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution of any of our assets or surplus funds to the holders of our common stock by reason of their ownership thereof, the amount of two times the then-effective purchase price per share, as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations or splits with respect to such shares, plus all declared but unpaid dividends on such share for each share of Series A Preferred Stock then held by them. After receiving this amount, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall participate on an as-converted basis with the holders of common stock in any of our remaining assets. Because a single stockholder has a controlling percentage of our voting power, other stockholders' voting power is limited. As of December 31, 2008, Alticor was our largest stockholder and owned, or had rights to acquire, approximately 58.9% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, this stockholder may be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws and the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. This stockholder may make decisions that are adverse to other stockholders' interests. This ownership concentration may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Four of our seven directors are individuals chosen by this single stockholder and this stockholder has the right to choose an additional director. These directors might pursue policies in the interest of this single stockholder to the detriment of our other stockholders. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares of common stock, which you may only be able to do at a loss. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares, which you may only be able to do at a loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Table of Contents 