Item 1A. Risk Factors The market for genetic risk assessment tests is unproven. The market for genetic risk assessment tests is at an early stage of development and may not continue to grow. The general scientific community, including us, has only a limited understanding of the role of genes in predicting disease. When we identify a gene or genetic marker that may influence risk for disease, we conduct clinical trials to confirm the initial scientific discovery and to establish the scientific discovery’s clinical utility in the marketplace. The results of these clinical trials could limit or delay our ability to bring the test to market, reduce the test’s acceptance by our customers or cause us to cancel the program, any of which would limit or delay sales and cause additional losses. The marketplace may never accept our products, and we may never be able to sell our products at a profit. We may not complete development of or commercialize our other genetic risk assessment tests. The success of our genetic risk assessment tests will depend upon their acceptance as medically useful and cost-effective by patients, physicians, other members of the medical community and by third-party payers, such as insurance companies and the government. Our efforts to commercialize our intellectual 16 property have had limited success to date outside of the Alticor channel. We can achieve broad market acceptance only with substantial education about the benefits and limitations of genetic risk assessment tests. Technological changes may cause our tests to become obsolete. We have to date focused our efforts on genetic tests based on a small number of candidate genes. It is now possible to use array technology to conduct whole genome association studies for risk assessment, which may make our technologies obsolete. To date, our tests have been developed on behalf of, and marketed to, our primary customer, Alticor. In order to develop new customers and markets for our genetic risk assessment tests, we will be required to invest substantial additional capital and other resources into further developing these tests. We currently have only one customer for our genetic risk assessment tests upon whom we rely to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions on our behalf, which could limit our efforts to successfully market products. To date, we have had just one customer for our genetic risk assessment tests, Alticor, which is also our largest stockholder. We have limited experience and capabilities with respect to distributing, marketing and selling genetic risk assessment tests. We have relied and plan to continue to rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with Alticor. If Alticor does not successfully market our products, sales will decrease and our losses will increase. We may attempt to negotiate marketing and distribution agreements with third parties, although there can be no assurances we will be able to do so. We have a history of operating losses and expect these losses to continue in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and expect these losses to continue for some time. We incurred losses from operations of $6.7 million in 2004, $6.1 million in 2005 and $6.5 million in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $68.1 million. Our losses result primarily from research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets. Although we have recently begun to generate revenues from sales of our genetic risk assessment tests and nutritional products, these may not be sufficient to result in net income in the foreseeable future. We will need to generate significant revenue to continue our research and development programs and achieve profitability. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will achieve profitability. We are subject to government regulation, which may significantly increase our costs and delay introduction of future products. Changes in existing regulations at either the state or federal level could require advance regulatory approval of genetic risk assessment tests, resulting in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of our activities without regulatory approval. If our genetic tests ever require regulatory approval, on either a state or federal level, then the costs of introduction may increase and marketing and sales of products may be significantly delayed. We currently are performing the testing procedure in our own genetic testing laboratory, which currently is certified under CLIA, administered by the Health Care Financing Administration. We anticipate there will also be additional state and local regulations governing the operation of this laboratory. An inability to maintain our CLIA certification or any applicable state or local certification would reduce our anticipated revenue and increase our net losses. In September 2006, the FDA issued draft guidelines pursuant to which it would require pre-market review of certain types of genetic tests. Although we do not think that our current genetic tests and those in development, are covered by the draft guidelines, the FDA is currently evaluating and could assert pre-market review of all types of genetic tests. 17 Because a single stockholder has a controlling percentage of our voting power, other stockholders’ voting power is limited. As of December 31, 2006, Alticor was our largest stockholder and owned, or had rights to own, approximately 58.6% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, this stockholder may be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws and the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. This stockholder may make decisions that are adverse to other stockholders’ interests. This ownership concentration may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Three of our four directors are individuals chosen by this single stockholder and this stockholder has the right to choose an additional director. These directors might pursue policies in the interest of this single stockholder to the detriment of our other stockholders. Our recent acquisition may not be profitable, and the integration of our businesses may be costly and difficult and may cause disruption to our business. We have acquired and are in the process of integrating into our operations the business formerly operated by the Alan James Group, LLC. The ultimate success of this acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating this business and its assets into our existing businesses. However, the successful integration of independent businesses or assets is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of integrating companies and acquired assets include among others: · consolidating manufacturing and research and development operations, where appropriate; · integrating newly acquired businesses or product lines into a uniform financial reporting system; · coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; · establishing or expanding manufacturing, sales, distribution and marketing functions in order to accommodate newly acquired businesses or product lines; · preserving the important licensing, research and development, manufacturing and supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships; · minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and · coordinating geographically separate organizations. We may not accomplish the integration of this acquisition smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of our management from our current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits from this acquisition and adversely affect our other businesses. Additionally, the costs associated with the integration of this acquisition may be substantial. To the extent that we incur integration costs that were not anticipated when we financed our acquisition, these unexpected costs could adversely impact our liquidity or force us to borrow additional funds. Ultimately, the value of any business or asset that we have acquired may not be greater than or equal to the price we paid. An inability to manage our growth or successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. Our business is in a period of growth, with total revenues increasing from $23,000 in 2005 to $4.7 million in 2006. In August 2006, we made a significant acquisition and may make more in the future. The successful integration of acquired businesses requires a significant effort and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance and administration and information technologies. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our 18 management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisition of the Alan James Group could become impaired, requiring us to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for our acquisition of the Alan James Group, we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of intangible assets has been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings which could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations in future periods. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility may be harmed, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our product liability insurance coverage. The manufacturing and marketing of consumer and professional diagnostic products, nutritional products and OTCeuticals involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. In addition, our product development and production are extremely complex and could expose our products to defects. Any defects could harm our credibility and decrease market acceptance of our products. In addition, our marketing of nutritional products and OTCeuticals may cause us to be subjected to various product liability claims, including, among others, claims that the nutritional products and OTCeuticals have inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. In the event that we are held liable for a claim for which we are not indemnified, or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, that claim could materially damage our business and our financial condition. The sales of branded nutritional supplements we recently acquired have been flat to slightly declining due to the segments we compete in (as the overall category consumption has declined year over year). This trend could continue and we may experience continued flatness or declines of those products. In 2006, the aggregate sales of our brand name nutritional products, including among others Ginkoba, Ginsana, and Venastat demonstrated a slight decline from the prior year. We believe that these products are performing consistently with the category in which they compete however the category has also shown a decline year over year. We are subject to future distribution review and possibly loss (just like any other product carried by retailers) as retailers conduct their annual category reviews. We face competition with private label offerings, while our opportunities for new distribution on the existing product lines are limited. As a result, we do not expect sales growth of our existing nutritional products and may even experience declines in the future. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products could significantly harm our customer relationships and product sales. Our nutritional products business is particularly subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes, and we may not be able to respond to these changes in a timely or commercially appropriate manner. If we are unable to do so, our customer relationships and product sales could be harmed significantly. Furthermore, the nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could 19 negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products. This could harm our customer relationships and cause losses to our market share. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: · accurately anticipate customer needs; · innovate and develop new products; · successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; · price our products competitively; · manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and · differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to our current products to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could become obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Sales of our specific nutritional supplements and OTCeuticals could be negatively impacted by media attention or other news developments that challenge the safety and effectiveness of those specific nutritional products and OTCeuticals. Most growth in the nutritional products and OTCeutical industry is attributed to new products that tend to generate greater attention in the marketplace than do older products. Positive media attention resulting from new scientific studies or announcements can spur rapid growth in individual segments of the market, and also impact individual brands. Conversely, news that challenges individual segments or products can have a negative impact on the industry overall as well as on sales of the challenged segments or products. Many of our nutritional products serve well-established market segments and, absent unforeseen new developments or trends, are not expected to benefit from rapid growth and may, in fact, suffer flat or declining sales as they mature. Our OTCeuticals are newer products that are more likely to be the subject of new scientific studies or announcements, which could be either positive or negative. News or other developments that challenge the safety or effectiveness of these products could negatively impact the profitability of our nutritional products and OTCeutical business. The profitability of our consumer products businesses may suffer if we are unable to establish and maintain close working relationships with our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 43% of our revenues were derived from our consumer products business, which consists of our nutritional products since August 17, 2006, the date of our acquisition of the Alan James Group business. This business relies to a great extent on close working relationships with our customers rather than long-term exclusive contractual arrangements. Customer concentration in this business is relatively high and one customer accounted for approximately 42% of those revenues. In addition, customers of our branded and private label consumer products, generally large food, drug and mass retailers, purchase those products through purchase orders only and are not obligated to make future purchases. We therefore rely on our ability to deliver quality products on time in order to retain and generate customers. If we fail to meet our customers’ needs or expectations, whether due to manufacturing issues that affect quality or capacity issues that result in late shipments, we will harm our reputation and customer relationships and likely lose customers. Additionally, if we are unable to maintain close working relationships with our customers, sales of all of our products and our ability to successfully launch new products could suffer. The loss of a major customer and the failure to generate new accounts could significantly reduce our revenues or prevent us from achieving projected growth. 20 Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful due to our recent acquisition. We recently completed the acquisition of the business of the Alan James Group, which makes it difficult to analyze our results and to compare them from period to period. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful due to this acquisition and are not indications of our future performance. Any future acquisitions will also make our results difficult to compare from period to period in the future. The market for personalized health is unproven. The competition in the field of personalized health is defined, but the markets and customer base are not well established. Adoption of such technologies requires substantial market development. Although our primary customer, Alticor, has begun to develop the direct-to-consumer market, the overall market is unproven and there can be no assurance that other channels for marketing our products can be developed. As a result, there can be no assurance that our products will be successful upon launch or that they can be sold at sufficient volume to make them profitable. If customers do not accept our tests, or take a longer time to accept them than we anticipate, then it will reduce our anticipated sales, resulting in additional losses. If we fail to obtain additional capital, or obtain it on unfavorable terms, then we may have to end our research and development programs and other operations. We expect that our current and anticipated financial resources are adequate to maintain our current and planned operations through 2008. If we are not generating sufficient cash or cannot raise additional capital prior to that date, we will be unable to fund our business operations and will be required to seek other strategic alternatives. Our future capital needs depend on many factors. We will need capital for the commercial launch of additional genetic tests, continued research and development efforts, obtaining and protecting patents and administrative expenses. Additional financing may not be available when needed, or, if available, it may not be available on favorable terms. If we cannot obtain additional funding on acceptable terms when needed, we may have to discontinue operations, or, at a minimum, curtail one or more of our research and development programs. Our Series A Preferred Stock has certain rights that are senior to common stockholder rights and this may reduce the value of our common stock. Our Series A Preferred Stock, which was issued to Alticor in March 2003, accrues dividends at the rate of 8% of the original purchase price per year, payable only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors and are non-cumulative. If we declare a distribution, with certain exceptions, payable in securities of other persons, evidences of indebtedness issued by us or other persons, assets (excluding cash dividends) or options or rights to purchase any such securities or evidences of indebtedness, then, in each such case the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a proportionate share of any such distribution as though the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock were the holders of the number of shares of our common stock into which their respective shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible as of the record date fixed for the determination of the holders of our common stock entitled to receive such distribution. As of December 31, 2006, our Series A Preferred Stock was convertible into 28,160,200 shares of our common stock, which is subject to standard antidilution protections as well as adjustments in the event we issue any shares of capital stock for a price lower than the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, prior and in preference to 21 any distribution of any of our assets or surplus funds to the holders of our common stock by reason of their ownership thereof, the amount of two times the then-effective purchase price per share, as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations or splits with respect to such shares, plus all declared but unpaid dividends on such share for each share of Series A Preferred Stock then held by them. After receiving this amount, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall participate on an as-converted basis with the holders of common stock in any of our remaining assets. If we are unsuccessful in establishing additional strategic alliances, our ability to develop and market products and services may be damaged. Entering into strategic alliances, in addition to our relationship with Alticor, for the development and commercialization of products and services based on our discoveries is an important element of our business strategy. We anticipate entering into additional collaborative arrangements with Alticor. In addition, we may enter into strategic arrangements with other parties in the future. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. If we fail to maintain our existing alliance with Alticor or establish additional strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements, then our ability to develop and market products and services will be damaged. In addition, the terms of any future strategic alliances may be unfavorable to us or these strategic alliances may be unsuccessful. If we fail to obtain patent protection for our products and preserve our trade secrets, then competitors may develop competing products and services, which will likely decrease our sales and market share. Our success will partly depend on our ability to obtain patent protection, in the United States and in other countries, for our products and services. In addition, our success will also depend upon our ability to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We own rights in twenty issued U.S. patents and have a number of additional U.S. patent applications pending. We have also been granted a number of corresponding foreign patents and have a number of foreign counterparts of our U.S. patents and patent applications pending. Our patent positions, and those of other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our ability to develop and commercialize products and services depends on our ability to: · obtain patents; · obtain licenses to the proprietary rights of others; · prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; and · protect trade secrets. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents and any issued patents may never afford meaningful protection for our technology or products or provide us with a competitive advantage. If the patents are not issued to us, we can only rely on common law trademark rights to protect these trademarks and our trade dress. Additionally, in general nutritional products and OTCeuticals are not patentable, instead we must rely on trademark rights to protect our products. Common law trademark rights do not provide the same level of protection as afforded by a United States federal registration of a trademark. Also, common law trademark rights are limited to the geographic area in which the trademark is actually used. Further, others may develop competing products, which avoid legally infringing upon, or conflicting with, our patents. There is no assurance that another company will not replicate one or more of our products, and this may harm our ability to do business. In addition, competitors may challenge any patents issued to us, and these patents may subsequently be narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. 22 We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, with confidentiality agreements. The third parties we contract with may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. If they do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Our competitors may discover or independently develop our trade secrets. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications and require us to seek licenses, which could increase our costs or prevent us from developing or marketing our products or services. We may not have rights under patents or patent applications that are related to our current or proposed products. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. Therefore, in some cases, to develop or sell any proposed products or services, with patent rights controlled by third parties, our collaborators or we may seek, or may be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents and patent applications. If this occurs, we may have to pay license fees or royalties or both to the licensor. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, our collaborators or we may be prohibited from developing or selling our products or services. If third parties believe our products or services infringe upon their patents, they could bring legal proceedings against us seeking damages or seeking to enjoin us from testing, manufacturing or marketing our products or services. Any litigation could result in substantial expenses to us and significant diversion of attention by our technical and management personnel. Even if we prevail, the time, cost and diversion of resources of patent litigation would likely damage our business. If the other parties in any patent litigation brought against us are successful, in addition to any liability for damages, we may have to cease the infringing activity or obtain a costly license. We could become subject to intense competition from other companies, which may damage our business. Our industry is highly competitive. Our potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, consumer products companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Furthermore, many of these competitors are more experienced than we are in discovering, commercializing and marketing products. These greater resources may allow our competitors to discover important genes or genetic markers before we do. If we do not discover genes that are linked to a health risk, characterize their functions, develop genetic tests and related information services based on such discoveries, obtain regulatory and other approvals and launch these services, or products before our competitors, then our ability to generate sales and revenue will be reduced or eliminated, and could make our products obsolete. We expect competition to intensify in our industry as technical advances are made and become more widely known. We may be subject to product liability claims that are costly to defend and that could limit our ability to use some technologies in the future. The design, development, manufacture and use of our genetic risk assessment tests and nutritional supplements involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Producers of these products face substantial liability for damages in the event of product failure or allegations that the product caused harm. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but it is expensive and difficult to obtain, may not be available in the future on economically acceptable terms and may not be adequate to fully protect us against all claims. We may become subject to product liability claims that, even if they are without merit, could result in significant legal defense costs. We could be held liable for damages in excess 23 of the limits of our insurance coverage, and any claim or resulting product recall could create significant adverse publicity. Ethical, legal and social issues related to genetic testing may reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised issues regarding the appropriate utilization and the confidentiality of information provided by genetic testing. Genetic tests for assessing a person’s likelihood of developing a chronic disease have focused public attention on the need to protect the privacy of genetic information. For example, concerns have been expressed that insurance carriers and employers may use these tests to discriminate on the basis of genetic information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities prohibiting genetic testing or calling for limits on or regulating the use of genetic testing, particularly for diseases for which there is no known cure. Any of these scenarios would decrease demand for our products and result in substantial losses. Our dependence on key executives and scientists could adversely impact the development and management of our business. Our success substantially depends on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key employees, it could damage our development programs and our business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled managerial and scientific personnel. The pool of personnel with the skill that we require is limited. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense. We compete with numerous pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations in the highly competitive Boston, Massachusetts business area. Our current senior management team is employed by us under agreements that may be terminated by them for any reason upon 30 days’ notice. There can be no assurances, therefore, that we will be able to retain our senior executives or replace them, if necessary. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. In a circumstance in which Alticor enters a business in competition with our own, certain of our Directors might have a conflict of interest. In conjunction with our strategic alliance with Alticor, we have agreed to certain terms for allocating opportunities as permitted under Section 122(17) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This agreement, as set forth in the Purchase Agreement, regulates and defines the conduct of certain of our affairs as they may involve Alticor as our majority stockholder and its affiliates, and the powers, rights, duties and liabilities of us and our officers and directors in connection with corporate opportunities. Except under certain circumstances, Alticor and its affiliates have the right to engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business or have an interest in the same classes or categories of corporate opportunities as we do. If Alticor or one of our directors appointed by Alticor, and its affiliates acquire knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Alticor and its affiliates and us, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Alticor and its affiliates will not have a duty to inform us about the corporate opportunity or be liable to us or to you for breach of any fiduciary duty as a stockholder of ours for not informing us of the corporate opportunity, keeping it for its own account, or referring it to another person. Additionally, except under limited circumstances, if an officer or employee of Alticor who is also one of our directors is offered a corporate opportunity, such opportunity shall not belong to us. In addition, we agreed that such director will have satisfied his duties to us and not be liable to us or to you in connection with such opportunity. 24 The terms of this agreement will terminate on the date that no person who is a director, officer or employee of ours is also a director, officer, or employee of Alticor or its affiliates. We may be prohibited from fully using our net operating loss carryforwards, which could affect our financial performance. As a result of the losses incurred since inception, we have not recorded a federal income tax provision and have recorded a valuation allowance against all future tax benefits. As of December 31, 2006, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $47.6 million and $950,000, respectively, for federal income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2026. As of December 31, 2006, we had gross net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $21.0 and $490,000, respectively, for state income tax purposes, expiring in varying amounts through the year 2026. Our ability to use these net operating loss and credit carryforwards is subject to restrictions contained in the Internal Revenue Code which provide for limitations on our utilization of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards following a greater than 50% ownership change during the prescribed testing period. We have experienced two such ownership changes. One change arose in March 2003 and the other was in June 1999. As a result, all of our net operating loss carryforwards are limited in utilization. The annual limitation may result in the expiration of the carryforwards prior to utilization. In addition, in order to realize the future tax benefits of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, we must generate taxable income, of which there is no assurance. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares of common stock, which you may only be able to do at a loss. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not expect to receive any funds without selling your shares, which you may only be able to do at a loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 