Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors which appear below could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall economic and industry conditions, especially in the Eastern United States where most of our clubs are located, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, terrorism, major health concerns or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material also may impair our business results of operations and financial condition. Competition May Adversely Affect Our Profitability We compete with a wide range of national, regional and local retailers and wholesalers selling food and/or general merchandise in our markets. Some of these competitors, including two major competitors (Sam’s Clubs (a division of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.) and Costco Wholesale Corporation) who operate on a nationwide basis, have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than BJ’s. These retailers and wholesalers compete in a variety of ways, including price, location, services offered to customers and merchandise selection. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or future competitors. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive factors may have an adverse effect on our profitability as a result of lower sales and increased operating costs. 7 New Store Openings are Critical to Our Growth Our long-term sales and income growth is dependent to a certain degree on our ability to open new clubs and gasoline stations in both existing markets and new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion on a timely and profitable basis. Our expansion is dependent on finding suitable locations, which may be affected by local regulations and construction and development costs and competition from other retailers for particular sites. In addition, we may not be able to hire, train and retain a suitable work force to staff these locations or successfully integrate new clubs into our existing infrastructure. As a result, we may be unable to open new clubs at the rates expected or operate the clubs in a profitable manner. Our Comparable Club Sales and Quarterly Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly Our comparable club sales may be adversely affected for many reasons, including new store openings by our competitors and the opening of our own new clubs that may cannibalize existing club sales. Comparable club sales may also be affected by cycling against strong sales in the prior year, by our own clubs entering into the comparable club base and by price reductions in response to competition. Our quarterly operating results may be adversely affected by losses in new clubs, price changes in response to competitors’ prices, increases in operating costs, weather conditions, natural disasters, local economic conditions and the timing of new club openings and related start-up costs. Our quarterly operating results may also be affected by the volatility in gasoline and energy prices. As a result, our quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter. Our Business May be Affected by Issues that Affect Consumer Spending Our results of operations may be affected by changes in economic factors that impact consumer spending. Certain economic conditions such as changes in inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy and transportation costs, insurance and health care costs and labor costs could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to our competitors. Reduced consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our items and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. A reduction or shift in consumer spending could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain Legal Proceedings Could Adversely Impact Our Results of Operations We are involved in a number of legal proceedings involving employment issues, personal injury, consumer matters, credit card fraud and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in material liability. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note F in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Union Attempts to Organize Our Team Members Could Disrupt Our Business Unions have attempted to organize our team members at certain of our clubs and facilities. Our management and team members may be required to devote their time to respond to union activities, which could be distracting to our operations. Future union activities may negatively impact our business and results of operations. Insurance Claims Could Adversely Impact our Results of Operations We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation, general liability, property, fiduciary liability and employee health care and life insurance claims. Liabilities associated with risk retained by the Company are estimated, with the assistance of valuations provided by third-party actuaries, historical loss development factors and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if actual future occurrences and claims differ from our assumptions and historical trends. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 