RISK FACTORS Customer Concentration and Lack of Recurring Revenue During 2005, two customers, GAF Material Corporation and Hackensack University Medical Center, accounted for 27% and 23% of our revenue respectively. Additionally, GAF Materials Corporation and Hackensack University Medical Center comprised 20% and 28% of our accounts receivable as of September 30, 2005. The loss of either of these customers or the loss of significant orders from these customers or the inability of either of these customers to meet their financial obligations in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Less than 10% of our revenue is recurring revenue based on contracts or annual renewals. As a result, failure to receive orders from existing or new customers on a continuous basis in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Key Personnel Our ability to attract and retain employees is crucial to meeting our business objectives, particularly in the sales and technical areas of our company. As a relatively small company, we rely heavily on our key employees and managers to achieve our financial goals. In order for us to grow, it is necessary for us to have the ability to hire additional key personnel. We offer competitive compensation and benefit packages to attract and retain employees; however, we do not have employment agreements and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract the employees required to meet our business goals. The loss of key sales, technical or management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Changing Technology and Technical Certifications We compete in the IT market space, which is constantly faced with changing technology. This environment presents a number of challenges that must be met in order for us to achieve our business goals. Failure to keep pace with changing technology or failure to develop the proper technology strategy that will result in a portfolio of technology solutions that will satisfy our customers’ needs could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our current customer base. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, our stated objective of continuing to sell high-end technical solutions is dependent on our ability to acquire and maintain certain technical certification levels required by the manufacturers we represent. These certifications must be held by the technical and engineering personnel as well as the sales personnel in order to be authorized to sell and service our manufacturers’ high-end products. Failure to acquire and maintain the technical certifications required could cause us to lose our authorization to sell certain high-end products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 6 Cyclical Nature of IT Markets Historically, the IT market space has been subject to cyclical market upturns and downturns. Most recently, the IT market experienced a significant downturn which began in the first calendar quarter of 2001 and began to recover in approximately the fourth calendar quarter of 2003. These downturns resulting from the cyclical nature of IT could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Competition The IT marketplace is highly competitive, particularly in the New York City metropolitan area where we compete. As a result, there are many competitors in our geographic area vying for customers as well as experienced IT sales and technical personnel. Certain of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their services than us. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Financing and Ability to Raise Capital Our long-term capital needs may require additional sources of credit. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in negotiating additional sources of credit for our long-term capital needs. Our inability to have continuous access to such financing at reasonable costs could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 and again in the fourth quarter of 2005, we were not in compliance with certain of the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement with our primary lender, Wells Fargo. While we expect to be able to maintain compliance with the amended financial covenants throughout the remainder of fiscal year 2006, if business conditions are other than as anticipated or other unforeseen events or circumstances occur, we may have difficulty maintaining compliance with these covenants. If it appears likely that such non-compliance may occur, we will seek to obtain a waiver or amendment to such financial covenants. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in negotiating such waiver or amendment or that such waiver or amendment would be granted on terms that are favorable to us. In the absence of a waiver or amendment to the financial covenants, such non-compliance would constitute an event of default under the credit agreement, and Wells Fargo would be entitled to accelerate the maturity of all amounts we owe them. This could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we are a publicly traded company, it is unlikely that we would be able to raise capital through the issuance of stock. Our stock is traded on the OTCBB, where there is little visibility in the investment community and our share volume is very low, averaging less than 5,000 shares per day during fiscal year 2005. The combination of low visibility and low liquidity creates an unfavorable environment for us to be able to attract the investors needed to raise capital in the equity markets. Our inability to raise capital by these means may significantly impact our ability to fund our operations and future growth through expansion or acquisition. Impairment Charges In the fourth quarter of 2004 and again in fourth quarter of 2005, following the annual independent valuation of the goodwill of our subsidiary, InfoTech USA, Inc., we recorded an impairment of our long-lived assets in the amount of $701,000 and $529,000, respectively. While we do not anticipate further impairment of these long lived assets, if, due to unforeseen circumstances, we do not meet our projections, we may determine that further impairment of these assets has occurred. This could result in recording additional impairment charges that will negatively affect our earnings. Operating Losses For the years ended September 30, 1999 through 2005, we experienced operating losses and as of September 30, 2005 our accumulated deficit was $1,648,000. While the change in our business model and strategic direction over the past few years has significantly improved our results, we cannot make any assurances that we will be able to achieve profitability on a consistent basis. 7 Majority Stockholder Our majority stockholder, Applied Digital Solutions, Inc. (“ADS”) owns approximately 53% of our outstanding shares and our Chairman of the Board, Kevin McLaughlin, is the Chief Executive Officer of one of ADS’s wholly owned subsidiaries, VeriChip Corporation. As a result, ADS is able to exercise significant influence over our company that could affect major transactions we contemplate and is able to elect our entire Board of Directors. This influence has the potential to delay, prevent, change or initiate: a change in control, acquisition, merger or other transaction, such as a transaction to take the company private. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS Federal, state, and local laws or regulations which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment have not had, and under present conditions we do not foresee that they will have, a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, cash flows or our competitive position. We will continue to monitor our operations with respect to potential environmental issues, including changes in legally mandated standards. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our internet address is www.infotechusa.com. Our internet address is included in this report as an inactive textual reference only. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report and should not be considered part of this report. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We make available free of charge our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished, as required by Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the Commission. You may access these filings via the hyperlink to the Commission’s website that we provide on our website. 