Risk Factors Risks related to our business We are subject to risks related to our international operations that could harm our business and results of operations. With operations worldwide, including in emerging markets, our business and results of operations are subject to various risks inherent in international operations. These risks include: • instability of foreign economies and governments; • risks of war, terrorism, civil disturbance, seizure, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; and • foreign exchange restrictions, sanctions and other laws and policies affecting taxation, trade and investment. We are exposed to these risks in all of our foreign operations to some degree, and our exposure could be material to our financial condition and results of operations in emerging markets where the political and legal environment is less stable. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to material adverse developments with respect to our international operations or that any insurance coverage we have will be adequate to cover us for any losses arising from such risks. Revenue generating activities in certain foreign countries may require prior United States government approval in the form of an export license and may otherwise be subject to tariffs and import/export restrictions. These laws can change over time and may result in limitations on our ability to compete globally. In addition, non-U.S. persons employed by our separately incorporated non-U.S. entities may conduct business in some foreign jurisdictions that have been subject to U.S. trade embargoes and sanctions by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. We have typically generated revenue in these countries through the performance of data processing, reservoir consulting services and the sale of software licenses and software maintenance. We have current and ongoing relations with customers in these countries. We have procedures in place to conduct these operations in compliance with applicable U.S. laws. However, failure to comply with U.S. laws on equipment and services exports could result in material fines and penalties and/or damage to our reputation. In addition, our presence in these countries could reduce demand for our securities among certain investors. We and certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities also conduct business in countries which experience government corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with all applicable laws and our codes of ethics, but there is a risk that we, our subsidiaries or affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action in violation of applicable laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might materially adversely affect our business and results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to certain risks related to acquisitions, including the merger with Veritas DGC Inc., and these risks may materially adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. The merger with Veritas DGC Inc. involves the integration of two companies, CGG and Veritas, that had previously operated independently and as competitors. CGG and Veritas entered into the merger with the expectation that, among other things, the merger would enable us to achieve expected cost synergies from having one rather than two public companies as well as the redeployment of support resources towards operations and 8 Table of Contents premises rationalization. Achieving the benefits of the merger will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination and integration of global business enterprises of the size and scope of CGG and Veritas and the possible resulting diversion of management attention for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that we will meet these challenges and that such diversion will not negatively affect our operations. There can be no assurance that we will actually achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from the merger. In addition, in the past we have grown by acquisitions, and we may acquire companies or assets in the future. Such acquisitions, whether completed or in the future, present various financial and management-related risks, such as integration of the acquired businesses in a cost-effective manner; implementation of a combined intended business strategy; diversion of our management’s attention; outstanding or unforeseen legal, regulatory, contractual, labor or other issues arising from the acquisitions; additional capital expenditure requirements; retention of customers; combination of different company and management cultures; operations in new geographic markets; the need for more extensive management coordination; and retention, hiring and training of key personnel. Should any of these risks associated with acquisitions materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for multi-client surveys and for our data library without knowing precisely how much of the data we will be able to sell or when and at what price we will be able to sell the data. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data that we own. By making such investments, we are exposed to risks that: • we may not fully recover the costs of acquiring and processing the data through future sales. The amounts of these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the timing of these sales is unpredictable, and sales can vary greatly from period to period. Technological or regulatory changes or other developments could also materially adversely affect the value of the data. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location, so particular surveys may be subject to significant amortization even though sales of licenses associated with that survey are weak or non-existent, thus reducing our profits. • the value of our multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in the areas where we acquire multi-client data. • any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies including the euro, the U.S. dollar, the Canadian dollar and, to a significantly lesser extent, other non-euro Western European currencies, principally the British pound and the Norwegian kroner. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues that were invoiced in euros related to contracts that were effectively priced in U.S. dollars, as the U.S. dollar often serves as the reference currency when bidding for contracts to provide geophysical services. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the euro against such other currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, can have a significant effect upon our results of operations, which are reported in euros. The merger with Veritas very significantly increased both our dollar-denominated revenues and expenses, as Veritas’ revenues and expenses have historically been denominated largely in U.S. dollars. Thus, for financial reporting purposes, depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro will negatively affect our reported results of operations since U.S. dollar-denominated earnings that are converted to euros are stated at a decreased value. Moreover and in addition to the impact of the conversion of the U.S. dollar at a decreased value, since we participate in competitive bids for data acquisition contracts that are denominated in U.S. dollars, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro harms our competitive position against companies whose costs and expenses are denominated to a greater extent in U.S. dollars. While we attempt to reduce the risks associated 9 Table of Contents with such exchange rate fluctuations through our hedging policy, we cannot assure that we will maintain our profitability level or that fluctuations in the values of the currencies in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. As of the date of this annual report, our fixed expenses in euros amount to €400 million and as a consequence, any unfavorable variation of U.S.$0.10 in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro would impact negatively our operating income by approximately U.S.$40 million. Our working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could result in additional financing requirements that we may not be able to meet on satisfactory terms, or at all. It is difficult for us to predict with certainty our working capital needs. This difficulty is due primarily to working capital requirements related to the marine seismic acquisition business and related to the development and introduction of new lines of geophysical equipment products. For example, under specific circumstances, we may extend the length of payment terms we grant to customers or increase our inventories substantially. We may therefore be subject to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that we may have difficulty financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, due notably to limitations in our debt agreements. Technological changes and new products and services are frequently introduced in the market, and our technology could be rendered obsolete by these introductions, or we may not be able to develop and produce new and enhanced products on a cost-effective and timely basis. Technology changes rapidly in the seismic industry, and new and enhanced products are frequently introduced in the market for our products and services, particularly in our equipment manufacturing and data processing and geosciences sectors. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to develop and produce new and enhanced products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis in accordance with industry demands. While we commit substantial resources to research and development, we may encounter resource constraints or technical or other difficulties that could delay the introduction of new and enhanced products and services in the future. In addition, the continuing development of new products risks making our older products obsolete. New and enhanced products and services, if introduced, may not gain market acceptance and may be materially adversely affected by technological changes or product or service introductions by one of our competitors. The nature of our business subjects us to significant ongoing operating risks for which we may not have adequate insurance or for which we may not be able to procure adequate insurance on economical terms, if at all. Our seismic data acquisition activities, particularly in deepwater marine areas, are often conducted under harsh weather and other hazardous operating conditions. These operations are subject to risks of loss to property and injury to personnel from fires, accidental explosions, ice floes and high seas. These types of events could result in loss from business interruption, delay, equipment destruction or other liability. We carry insurance against the destruction of or damage to our seismic equipment and against business interruption for our data processing activities in amounts we consider appropriate in accordance with industry practice. However, our insurance coverage may not be adequate in all circumstances or against all hazards, and we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at commercially reasonable rates or on acceptable terms. We depend on proprietary technology and are exposed to risks associated with the misappropriation or infringement of that technology. Our results of operations depend in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We currently hold or have applied for 140 patents in various countries for products and processes. These patents last between four and twenty years, depending on the date of filing and the protection accorded by each country. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers and potential customers and limit access to and distribution of our technology. However, actions that we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to deter the misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology. Although we are not involved in any material litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or the possible infringement of intellectual property rights of others, such litigation may be brought in the future. In addition, the laws of certain 10 Table of Contents foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as either the laws of France or the laws of the United States, which may limit our ability to pursue third parties that misappropriate our proprietary technology. Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees may materially adversely affect our future business and operations. Our future results of operations will depend in part upon our ability to retain our existing highly skilled and qualified employees and to attract new employees. A number of our employees are highly skilled scientists and highly trained technicians, and our failure to continue to retain and attract such individuals could materially adversely affect our ability to compete in the geophysical services industry. We compete with other seismic products and services companies and, to a lesser extent, companies in the oil industry for skilled geophysical and seismic personnel, particularly in times, such as the present, when demand for seismic services is relatively high. A limited number of such skilled personnel is available, and demand from other companies may limit our ability to fill our human resources needs. If we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, this could impair our ability to manage and maintain our business and to develop and protect our know-how. Our success also depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of members of our senior management, the loss of whom could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. CGG and Veritas have had losses in the past and we cannot assure that we will be profitable in the future. We recorded net losses in 2004 and 2005 (attributable to shareholders) of €6.4 million and €7.8 million, respectively, although excluding the accounting impact under IFRS of our 7.75% subordinated convertible bonds due 2012 denominated in U.S. dollars, our net income would have been positive. Veritas recorded a net loss of U.S.$59.1 million in its fiscal year 2003. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. Risks related to our industry: The volume of our business depends on the level of capital expenditures by the oil and gas industry, and reductions in such expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our business. Demand for our products and services has historically been dependent upon the level of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies for exploration, production and development activities. These expenditures are significantly influenced by oil and gas prices and by expectations regarding future oil and gas prices. Oil and gas prices may fluctuate based on relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, expectations regarding future supply of and demand for oil and gas and certain other factors beyond our control. Lower or volatile oil and gas prices tend to limit the demand for seismic services and products. Factors affecting the prices of oil and gas include: • demand for oil and gas; • worldwide political, military and economic conditions, including political developments in the Middle East, economic growth levels and the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; • levels of oil and gas production; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of oil and gas reserves in their territories; and • global weather conditions. Although oil and gas prices are currently high compared with historical values, which generally increases demand for seismic products and services, the markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. 11 Table of Contents We believe that global geopolitical uncertainty could lead oil companies to suddenly delay or cancel current geophysical projects. Any events that affect worldwide oil and gas supply, demand or prices or that generate uncertainty in the market could reduce exploration and development activities and materially adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you as to future oil and gas prices or the resulting level of industry spending for exploration, production and development activities. We are subject to intense competition in the markets where we carry out our operations, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels. Most of our contracts are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for the seismic services industry in which we operate. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, crew availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of its segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. We compete with large, international companies as well as smaller, local companies. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors operate more data acquisition crews than we do and have greater financial and other resources. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and gas prices and production levels, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, if geophysical service competitors increase their capacity in the future (or do not reduce capacity if demand decreases), the excess supply in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could thus have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have high levels of fixed costs that are incurred regardless of our level of business activity. We have high fixed costs, substantial capital expenditures generated by our data acquisition activities. As a result, downtime or low productivity due to, among other things, reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures or other causes could result in significant operating losses. The revenues we derived from land and marine seismic data acquisition vary significantly during the year. Our land and marine seismic data acquisition revenues are partially seasonal in nature. The offshore data acquisition business is, by its nature, exposed to unproductive interim periods due to necessary repairs or transit time from one operational zone to another during which revenue is usually not recognized. Other factors that cause variations from quarter to quarter include the effects of weather conditions in a given operating area, the internal budgeting process of some important clients relative to their exploration expenses, and the time necessary to mobilize production means and/or obtain the administrative authorizations necessary to commence data acquisition contracts. Our business is subject to governmental regulation, which may adversely affect our future operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state, foreign and local laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety laws. We need to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with these laws and related permit requirements. Our failure to do so could result in fines or penalties, enforcement actions, claims for personal injury or property damages, or obligations to investigate and/or remediate contamination. Failure to timely obtain the required permits may also result in crew downtime and operating losses. Moreover, if applicable laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety requirements, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, become more stringent in the future, we could incur capital or operating costs beyond those currently anticipated. The adoption of laws and regulations that directly or indirectly curtail exploration by oil and gas companies could also materially adversely affect our operations by reducing the demand for our geophysical products and services. Risks related to our indebtedness 12 Table of Contents Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a significant amount of debt. As at December 31, 2007, our net financial debt, total assets and shareholders’ equity were €1,106.7 million, €4,647.0 million and €2,401.6 million, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges in future years. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. In particular, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. The indentures governing our U.S.$530 million 71/2% senior notes due 2015 and U.S.$400 million 73/4% senior notes due 2017 (hereinafter our “Senior Notes”) and the agreements governing our credit facilities (including the U.S.$1.14 billion senior credit facilities dated January 12, 2007 (hereinafter our “Senior Facilities”) and our U.S.$200 million French revolving facility dated February 7, 2007 (hereinafter our “French revolving facility”)) contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred shares; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • purchase equity interests or reimburse subordinated debt; • create or incur certain liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; • engage in sale-and-leaseback transactions; and • sell assets or merge or consolidate with another company. Complying with the restrictions contained in some of these covenants requires us to meet certain ratios and tests, notably with respect to consolidated interest coverage, total assets, net debt, equity and net income. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the indentures and agreements governing our Senior Notes and our other current and future debt, there could be a default under the terms of these indentures and agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the indentures governing the Senior Notes or in other current or future debt agreements, including the Senior Facilities and the French revolving facility, there 13 Table of Contents could be a default under the terms of these indentures and agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests. In the event of a default under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, it might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our Senior Notes and our other existing senior indebtedness limit, but do not prohibit, our subsidiaries and us from doing so. As of the date of this annual report, we have drawn U.S.$890 million under the Senior Facilities to finance the cash component of the consideration for the merger with Veritas. If new debt is added to our current debt levels and those of our subsidiaries, the related risks for us could intensify. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures depends in part on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that we will realize operating improvements on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or debt restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold or that, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. Our results could be materially adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our sources of financing include credit facilities and debt securities that are or may be subject to variable interest rates. In particular, our Senior Facilities are subject to interest based on U.S. dollar LIBOR. As a result, our interest expenses may increase significantly if short-term interest rates increase. Each 50 basis point increase in the U.S. dollar LIBOR would increase our pro forma interest expense by approximately U.S.$5 million per year. 