ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Griffin's real estate and landscape nursery businesses have a number of risk factors. The risk factors discussed below are the ones that management deems to be material, but they may not be the only risks facing Griffin's businesses. Additional risks not currently known or currently deemed not to be material may also impact Griffin's businesses. Adverse Economic Conditions and Credit Markets Griffin Land's real estate business may be affected by market conditions and economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy as a whole or by local economic conditions in the market in which its properties are located. The current conditions in the credit markets, or similar conditions existing in the future, may adversely affect Griffin's results of operations, financial condition or ability to expand as a result of the following: •The financial condition of Griffin Land's tenants may be adversely affected, which may result in tenant defaults under leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failures or for other reasons; •Significant job losses may occur, which may decrease demand for Griffin Land's office and industrial space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; •Griffin's ability to borrow on terms and conditions that it finds acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce its ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities, refinance existing debt, and/or increase future interest expense; 12 •Reduced values of Griffin Land's properties may limit its ability to obtain debt financing collateralized by its properties or may limit the proceeds from such potential financings. Imperial's landscape nursery business may also be affected by the weakness in the U.S. economy. Landscape nursery products are a discretionary purchase, and the softening of demand for such products at the retail level may result in the reduction of orders by Imperial's independent garden center customers. Weakness in demand would also result in lower pricing, as other growers of landscape nursery products seek to liquidate inventories before product becomes unsaleable. Downturn in the Residential Real Estate Market The decline in the residential real estate market may adversely affect Griffin Land's real estate development activities, including delaying the development and/or sale of Griffin Land's undeveloped land intended for residential use. The slowdown in new housing starts may also adversely affect Imperial's future results. Although Imperial only has minimal sales of product to home builders, they are the ultimate users of a portion of the product sold to Imperial's rewholesaler customer segment, which accounted for approximately 43% of Imperial's sales in fiscal 2009. Risks Associated with Concentration of Real Estate Holdings Griffin Land's real estate operations are concentrated in the Hartford, Connecticut area. Adverse changes in the local economy or real estate market could impact Griffin Land's real estate operations, including the market's ability to absorb newly constructed space and Griffin Land's ability to retenant vacant space. Risks Associated with Entering New Real Estate Markets Griffin Land recently closed on the acquisition of an approximate 120,000 square foot industrial building in Breinigsville, Pennsylvania, and Griffin Land entered into a contract to purchase approximately 51 acres of undeveloped land in Lower Nazareth, Pennsylvania. These acquisitions are Griffin's Land's first purchases of properties outside of the Hartford, Connecticut market where Griffin Land's core real estate holdings are located. Griffin Land expects to continue to seek to acquire properties outside of the Hartford, Connecticut market. Operating in a real estate market that is new for Griffin Land creates additional risks and uncertainties to Griffin's operations as Griffin Land becomes familiar with the local real estate market. Potential Environmental Liabilities Griffin Land has extensive land holdings in Connecticut and Massachusetts. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, Griffin Land may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous substances or petroleum products at its properties because of its current or past ownership or operation of the real estate. If previously unidentified environmental problems arise, Griffin Land may have to make substantial payments, which could adversely affect its cash flow. As an owner or operator of properties, Griffin Land may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination. The law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination. Competition and Governmental Regulations Griffin Land's real estate operations compete with other properties in Griffin Land's area of operation. The construction of new facilities by competitors would increase capacity in the marketplace, which could result in Griffin Land experiencing longer times to lease vacant space, eroding lease rates or hindering renewals by existing tenants. Griffin Land's real estate operations are subject to 13 governmental regulations that affect real estate development, such as local zoning ordinances. Any changes in such regulations may impact the ability of Griffin Land to develop its properties. Insurance Coverage Does Not Include All Potential Losses in the Real Estate Business Griffin Land carries comprehensive insurance coverage, including property, fire, terrorism and loss of rental revenue. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits. Griffin Land believes its properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses that are not generally insured against or that are not fully insured against. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of Griffin Land's properties, Griffin Land could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenue from the properties affected. Risks of Agricultural and Environmental Factors Imperial's production of plants may be adversely affected by agricultural and environmental factors beyond its control, such as extreme cold during the winter months or severe drought conditions. While management believes that Imperial's Connecticut farm has sufficient water supplies available, a severe drought could impact Imperial's ability to maintain adequately its inventory. In addition, a severe drought in Imperial's major sales markets could substantially impact Imperial's sales. Other agricultural or environmental factors that could materially impact Imperial's growing operations are plant diseases, pests and the improper use of herbicides and pesticides. The occurrence of any one of these factors could materially affect Imperial's growing operations and result in a portion of Imperial's inventory becoming unsaleable. Concentration of Customers Although no single customer of Imperial accounted for more than 10% of Imperial's total net sales in fiscal 2009, Imperial's ten largest customers, including two mass merchandisers, accounted for approximately 24% of Imperial's total net sales in fiscal 2009. Management expects that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of Imperial's net sales over the next several years. Imperial has one customer with which it has a sales contract. Total revenue under that sales contract was approximately $0.3 million in fiscal 2009. Sales to independent garden centers made through buying cooperatives accounted for 19% of Imperial's total net sales in fiscal 2009, with sales through one buying cooperative accounting for 13% of Imperial's total net sales. The loss of one of Imperial's larger customers or the inability to collect accounts receivable from one of the buying cooperatives could have an adverse effect on Imperial. None of Griffin Land's tenants accounted for 10% or more of its total rental revenue in fiscal 2009. Shutdown of Imperial's Florida Farm In fiscal 2009, Imperial completed the shutdown of operations on its farm located in Quincy, Florida. Starting in fiscal 2010, Imperial will grow and ship plants only from its Granby, Connecticut farm, which Imperial continues to operate. The closure of the Florida farm reduces the breadth of Imperial's product offerings which could cause Imperial's customers to reduce their purchases of Imperial's products and seek alternative suppliers who are able to supply a broader range of customers' requirements. Regulatory Risks Imperial's operations are subject to various laws and environmental regulations. The failure to comply with such laws and environmental regulations could result in liabilities being incurred for 14 Imperial's actions. Recently, there has been an increase in legislation regarding the sale and transportation of plant varieties considered to be "invasive" by state governments. The continuation of such legislation could adversely impact Imperial's operations by reducing the area where inventories of plants considered to be invasive may be sold or transported. Risks Associated with the Cost of Raw Materials and Energy Costs Imperial's operations could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of growing plants, the costs of certain materials and energy costs. Prices of certain petroleum based materials, such as plant containers and plastics used in protecting inventory during the winter, have increased as overall petroleum prices have increased. In addition, increases in energy costs and the lack of availability of energy could also adversely impact Imperial's operations which uses heat generated from natural gas and propane to maintain certain parts of its inventory during the winter. Griffin Land's construction activities could be adversely affected by increases in raw materials or energy costs. As petroleum and other energy costs increase, products used in the construction of Griffin Land's facilities, such as steel, masonry, asphalt, cement and building products may increase. The cost of such items increased in 2008 but have subsequently returned to lower levels. An increase in the cost of building new facilities would negatively impact Griffin Land's future operating results through increased depreciation expense. An increase in construction costs would also require increased investment in Griffin Land's real estate assets, which may lower the return on investment in new facilities in the real estate business. Availability of Transportation Vendors to Deliver Product Substantially all of Imperial's sales are delivered to customers' locations using independent contractors for trucking services. The ability to ship products timely, especially during the peak spring shipping season, could be adversely impacted by shortages in available trucking capacity. Significant increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on Imperial's business, as customers may choose to purchase product from local growers or Imperial may not be able to pass along such increases to customers. Availability of Labor Labor costs comprise a substantial portion of Imperial's production costs. Imperial is subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act as well as various federal, state and local regulations that govern matters such as minimum wage requirements, working conditions and worker regulations. As a significant amount of Imperial's seasonal employees are paid at slightly above minimum wage rates, any increase in such minimum wage rates could adversely impact Imperial's results. In addition, Imperial depends on a significant amount of seasonal labor, particularly during its peak shipping period in the spring. Changes in immigration laws could make it more difficult for Imperial to meet its seasonal labor requirements, which could adversely affect Imperial's operations. Risks of Loss in the Landscape Nursery Business Not Covered by Insurance Imperial carries comprehensive insurance coverage, including property, liability, fire and terrorism on its production facilities and its inventories. The insurance contains policy specifications and insured limits, and does not cover all possible losses that Imperial could incur. Investment in Foreign Company Griffin has an investment in Centaur Media plc, a public company based in the United Kingdom. The ultimate liquidation of that investment and conversion of proceeds into United States currency is subject to future foreign currency exchange rates. 15 Litigation Griffin is involved, as a defendant, in various litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, based on the advice of legal counsel, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these matters will not be material, individually or in the aggregate, to Griffin's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Concentrated Ownership of Griffin Common Stock by Members of the Cullman and Ernst Families Members of the Cullman and Ernst families (the "Cullman and Ernst Group"), which include Edgar M. Cullman and David M. Danziger, directors of Griffin, Frederick M. Danziger, director and Griffin's President and Chief Executive Officer, and Michael S. Gamzon, a Vice President of Griffin, members of their families and trusts for their benefit, partnerships in which they own substantial interests and charitable foundations on whose boards of directors they sit, owned, directly or indirectly, approximately 49.2% of the outstanding common stock of Griffin as of November 28, 2009. There is an informal understanding that the persons and entities included in the Cullman and Ernst Group will vote together the shares owned by each of them. As a result, the Cullman and Ernst Group may effectively control the determination of Griffin's corporate and management policies and may limit other Griffin stockholders' ability to influence Griffin's corporate and management policies. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 