risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business We are a leading global supplier of precision instruments and services. We are the world’s largest manufacturer of weighing instruments for use in laboratory, industrial, product inspection, transportation and logistics and food retailing applications. We also hold top-three market positions in several related analytical instruments, and are a leading provider of automated chemistry systems used in drug and chemical compound discovery and development. In addition, we are the world’s largest manufacturer and marketer of metal detection and other end-of-line inspection systems used in production and packaging, and hold a leading position in certain process analytics applications. Our business is geographically diversified, with sales in 2005 derived 42% from Europe, 41% from North and South America and 17% from Asia and other countries. Our customer base is also diversified by industry and by individual customer. Mettler-Toledo International Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1991 and became a publicly traded company with its initial public offering in November 1997. In November 2001, we acquired Rainin Instrument, a leading manufacturer of pipetting solutions used in pharmaceutical, biotech and medical research applications. Business Segments We updated the geographic aggregation of our segments as of March 31, 2005 and have determined there are five reportable segments: U.S. Operations, Swiss Operations, Western European Operations, Chinese Operations and Other. Prior year segment information has been restated to conform with the current period presentation. See Note 16 to the audited consolidated financial statements and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under “Results of Operations — by Operating Segment” for detailed results by segment and geographic region. We manufacture a wide variety of precision instruments and provide value-added services to our customers. Our principal products and principal services are set forth below. Given the inherently global nature of our business, the following description of our products, customers and distribution, sales and services, research and development, manufacturing and other elements of our business apply, for the most part, to each of our segments. In some instances particular products are targeted for particular segments but none of these products are material in nature to the entire business or an individual segment. Laboratory Instruments We make a wide variety of precision laboratory instruments, including laboratory balances, pipettes, titrators, thermal analysis systems and other analytical instruments. The laboratory instruments business accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales in 2005. Laboratory Balances Our laboratory balances have weighing ranges from one ten-millionth of a gram up to 32 kilograms. To cover a wide range of customer needs and price points, we market our balances in a range of product tiers offering different levels of functionality. Based on the same technology platform, we also manufacture mass comparators, which are used by weights and measures regulators as well as laboratories to ensure the accuracy of reference weights. In addition to Mettler-Toledo branded products, we manufacture and sell balances under the brand name “Ohaus.” Ohaus branded products principally target the educational market and other markets in which customers are interested in lower cost, a more limited set of features and less comprehensive support and service. 3 Table of Contents Pipettes Pipettes are used in laboratories for dispensing small volumes of liquids. In late 2001, we acquired Rainin Instrument, a premier provider of pipetting solutions based in California. Rainin develops, manufactures and distributes advanced pipettes, tips and accessories, including single and multi-channel manual and electronic pipettes. Rainin maintains service centers in the key markets where customers periodically send in their pipettes for certified recalibrations. Rainin’s principal end markets are pharmaceutical, biotech, clinical and academia. Analytical Instruments Titrators measure the chemical composition of samples and are used in laboratories as well as the food and beverage and other industries. Our high-end titrators are multi-tasking models, which can perform two determinations simultaneously on multiple vessels. Our offering includes robotics to automate routine work in quality control applications. Thermal analysis systems measure material properties as a function of temperature, such as weight, dimension, energy flow and viscoelastic properties. Thermal analysis systems are used in nearly every industry, but primarily in the plastics and polymer industries and increasingly in the pharmaceutical industry. pH meters measure acidity in laboratory samples. We also sell density and refractometry instruments, which measure chemical concentrations in solutions. In addition, we manufacture and sell moisture analyzers, which precisely determine the moisture content of a sample by utilizing an infrared dryer to evaporate moisture. Laboratory Software LabX, our PC-based laboratory software platform, manages and analyzes data generated by our titrators and balances. LabX provides full network capability, has efficient, intuitive protocols, and enables customers to collect and archive data in compliance with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s traceability requirements for electronically stored data (also known as 21 CFR Part 11). We plan to expand LabX to include other laboratory instruments. Automated Chemistry Solutions Our current Automated Chemistry offerings are focused on key aspects of drug development process, including the identification of new lead compounds and optimization of those leads. Our automated lab reactors, in situ analysis systems, and VirtualLab Informatics Suite are considered integral to the process development and scale-up activities of our customers. We offer a range of technologies including synthesizer tools to support chemists working on lead identification and optimization. In addition, we provide systems for cleaning up and purifying synthesized products for use in preclinical trials. Our on-line measurement technologies based on infrared and laser light enables customers to monitor chemical reactions and crystallization processes in the lab and plant. We believe that our portfolio of integrated technologies can bring significant efficiencies to the drug development process, enabling our customers to create larger numbers of higher quality candidate compounds and bring them to market faster. Process Analytics Our process analytics business provides instruments for the in-line measurement of liquid parameters used primarily in the production process of pharmaceutical, biotech, beverage, microelectronics, and chemical companies. About half of our process analytics sales are to the pharmaceutical and biotech markets, where our customers need fast and secure scale-up and production that meets the validation processes required for GMP (Good Manufacturing Processes) and other regulatory standards. We are a leading solution provider for liquid analytical measurement to control and optimize production processes. Our solutions include sensor technology for pH, dissolved oxygen, CO2, conductivity, turbidity and TOC 4 Table of Contents and automated systems for calibration and cleaning of measurement points. Our instruments offer leading multi-parameter capabilities and plant-wide control system integration, which are key for integrated measurement of multiple parameters to secure production quality and efficiency. With a worldwide network of specialists, we support customers in critical process applications, compliance and systems integration questions. Industrial Instruments We manufacture numerous industrial weighing instruments and related terminals and we offer dedicated software solutions for the chemical, pharmaceutical and food industries. We supply automatic identification and data capture solutions, which integrate in-motion weighing, dimensioning and identification technologies for transport, shipping and logistics customers. We also offer heavy industrial scales and related software. The industrial instruments business accounted for approximately 42% of our net sales in 2005. Industrial Weighing Instruments We offer a comprehensive line of industrial scales and balances, such as bench scales and floor scales, for weighing loads from a few grams to several thousand kilograms in applications ranging from measuring materials in chemical production to weighing mail and packages. Our products are used in a wide range of applications, such as counting applications and in formulating and mixing ingredients. Industrial Terminals Our industrial scale terminals integrate collected data and control and automate manufacturing processes. They allow users to remotely download programs or access setup data and can minimize down time through predictive rather than reactive maintenance. Transportation and Logistics We are a leading global supplier of automatic identification and data capture solutions, which integrate in-motion weighing, dimensioning and identification technologies. With these solutions, customers can measure the weight and cubic volume of packages for appropriate billing, logistics and quality control. Our solutions also integrate into customers’ information systems. Vehicle Scale Systems Our primary heavy industrial products are scales for weighing trucks or railcars (i.e., weighing bulk goods as they enter or leave a factory or at a toll station). Heavy industrial scales are capable of measuring weights up to 500 tons and permit accurate weighing under extreme environmental conditions. We also offer advanced computer software that can be used with our heavy industrial scales to facilitate a broad range of customer solutions and provides a complete system for managing vehicle transaction processing. Industrial Software We offer a wide range of software that can be used with our industrial instruments. Examples include FreeWeigh.Net, statistical quality control software, Formweigh.Net, our formulation/batching software, and OverDrive. FreeWeigh.Net and Formweigh.Net provide full network capability and enable customers to collect and archive data in compliance with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s traceability requirements for electronically stored data (21 CFR part 11). In addition, our Q.i365 software controls batching processes by monitoring the material transfer control process. Q.i365 also provides statistical, diagnostic and operational information for asset management, process control and database applications. 5 Table of Contents Product Inspection Increasing safety and consumer protection requirements are driving the need for more and more sophisticated end-of-line inspection systems (e.g., for use in food processing and packaging, and pharmaceutical and other industries). We are a leading global provider of metal detectors, x-ray visioning equipment and checkweighers that are used in these industries. Metal detectors are most commonly used to detect fine particles of metal that may be contained in raw materials or may be generated by the manufacturing process itself. X-ray-based vision inspection helps detect non-metallic contamination, such as glass, stones and pits, which enter the manufacturing process for similar reasons. Our x-ray systems can detect metal in metallized containers and can be used for mass control. Both x-ray and metal detection systems may be used together with checkweighers as components of integrated packaging lines. Checkweighers are used to control the filling content of packaged goods such as food, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. FreeWeigh.net is our statistical and quality control software that optimizes package filling, monitors weight-related data and integrates it in real time into customers’ enterprise resource planning and/or process control systems. Retail Weighing Solutions Supermarkets, hypermarkets and other food retail businesses make use of multiple weighing and food labeling solutions for handling fresh goods (such as meats, vegetables, fruits and cheeses). We offer stand-alone scales for basic counter weighing and pricing, price finding and printing. In addition, we offer networked scales and software, which can integrate backroom, counter, self-service and checkout functions and can incorporate fresh goods item data into a supermarket’s overall food item and inventory management system. Customer benefits are in the areas of pricing, merchandising, inventory management, and regulatory compliance. The retail business accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in 2005. Retail Software Our subsidiary SofTechnics provides retail software for in-store item and inventory management solutions. SofTechnics’ offering complements our retail weighing solutions to food retailers by providing the full scope of real-time item management retailers can then match local store inventory levels with local customer demand. As our traditional retail weighing business extends further into the area of information technology, the opportunity to cross-sell SofTechnics’ software and services expands. We continue to introduce SofTechnics software for the improved inventory management of fresh goods and plan to sell more complete and integrated data management solutions for fresh goods now and in the future. Customers and Distribution Our principal customers include companies in the following key end markets: the life science industry (pharmaceutical and biotech companies, as well as independent research organizations); food producers; food retailers; the beverage industry; specialty chemicals and cosmetics companies; the transportation and logistics industry; the metals industry; the electronics industry; and the academic market. Our products are sold through a variety of distribution channels. Generally, more technically sophisticated products are sold through our direct sales force, while less complicated products are sold through indirect channels. Our sales through direct channels exceed our sales through indirect channels. A significant portion of our sales in the Americas is generated through the indirect channels. We have a diversified customer base, with no single customer accounting for more than 2% of 2005 net sales. Sales and Service Market Organizations We maintain geographically focused market organizations around the world that are responsible for all aspects of our sales and service. The market organizations are local marketing and service organizations designed to maintain close relationships with our customers. Each market organization has the flexibility to 6 Table of Contents adapt its marketing and service efforts to account for different cultural and economic conditions. Market organizations also work closely with our producing organizations (described below) by providing feedback on manufacturing and product development initiatives and relaying new product and application ideas. We have one of the largest and broadest global sales and service organizations among precision instrument manufacturers. At December 31, 2005, our sales and services group consisted of over 4,800 employees in sales, marketing and customer service (including related administration) and post-sales technical service, located in 35 countries. This field organization has the capability to provide service and support to our customers and distributors in major markets across the globe. This is important because our customers are seeking to do more and more business with a consistent global approach. Service We have expanded our service business from one centered on repair and maintenance to one driven by regulatory compliance and other value-added services, which we call Service XXL. We have a unique offering to our pharmaceutical customers in promoting use of our instruments in compliance with FDA regulations and we can provide these services regardless of the customer’s location throughout the world. This global service network also is an important factor in our ability to expand in emerging markets. We estimate that we have the largest installed base of weighing instruments in the world. In 2005, service (representing service contracts, repairs and replacement parts) accounted for approximately 23% of our total net sales. A significant portion of this amount is derived from sales of replacement parts. Beyond revenue opportunities, we believe service is a key part of our solution offering and helps significantly in customer retention. The close relationships and frequent contact with our large customer base provides us with sales opportunities and innovative product and application ideas. Research and Development and Manufacturing Producing Organizations Our research, product development and manufacturing efforts are organized into a number of producing organizations which specialize in specific products on a global basis. Our focused producing organizations help reduce product development time and costs, improve customer focus and maintain technological leadership. The producing organizations work together to share ideas and best practices, and there is a close interface and coordinated customer interaction among marketing organizations and producing organizations. Research and Development We intend to continue to invest in product innovation in order to provide technologically advanced products to our customers for existing and new applications. Over the last three years, we have invested $243.1 million in research and development ($81.9 million in 2005, $83.2 million in 2004, and $78.0 million in 2003). In 2005, we spent approximately 5.5% of net sales on research and development. Our research and development efforts fall into two categories: • technology advancements, which increase the value of our products. These advancements may be in the form of enhanced functionality, new applications for our technologies, more accurate or reliable measurement, additional software capability or automation through robotics or other means, and • cost reductions, which reduce the manufacturing cost of our products through better overall design. We have devoted an increasing proportion of our research and development budget to software development. This includes software to process the signals captured by the sensors of our instruments, application-specific software, and software that connects our solutions into customers’ IT systems. We 7 Table of Contents closely integrate research and development with marketing, manufacturing and product engineering. We have over 800 employees in research and development and product engineering. Manufacturing We are a worldwide manufacturer, with facilities principally in the United States, Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom and China. Laboratory instruments are produced mainly in Switzerland and to a lesser extent in the United States and China, while our remaining products are produced worldwide. We emphasize product quality in our manufacturing operations, and most of our products require very strict tolerances and exact specifications. We use an extensive quality control system that is integrated into each step of the manufacturing process. All major manufacturing facilities have achieved ISO 9001 certification. We believe that our manufacturing capacity is sufficient to meet our present and currently anticipated needs. We generally manufacture only critical components ourselves, usually components that contain proprietary technology. When outside manufacturing is more efficient, we contract with others for certain components. We use a wide range of suppliers. We believe our supply arrangements to be adequate and that there are no material constraints on the sources and availability of materials. From time to time we rely on a single supplier for all of our requirements of a particular component. Supply arrangements for electronics are generally made globally. Backlog; Seasonality Our manufacturing turnaround time is generally sufficiently short so as to permit us to manufacture to fill orders for most of our products, which helps to limit inventory costs. Backlog is therefore generally a function of requested customer delivery dates and is typically no longer than one to two months. Our business has historically experienced a slight amount of seasonal variation, particularly the high-end laboratory instruments business. Traditionally, sales in the first quarter are slightly lower than, and sales in the fourth quarter are slightly higher than sales in the second and third quarters. Fourth quarter sales have historically generated approximately 27-28% of our net sales. This trend has a somewhat greater effect on income from operations than on net sales because fixed costs are spread evenly across all quarters. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 8,800 employees throughout the world, including approximately 4,000 in Europe, 2,900 in North and South America, and 1,900 in Asia and other countries. We believe our employee relations are good, and we have not suffered any material employee work stoppage or strike during the last five years, except for a strike in early 2003 at our Bethune, France facility, which has been closed. Labor unions do not represent a meaningful number of our employees. Intellectual Property We hold over 1,700 patents and trademarks, primarily in the United States, Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Japan and China. Our products generally incorporate a wide variety of technological innovations, some of which are protected by patents of various durations. Products are generally not protected as a whole by individual patents, and as a result, no one patent or group of related patents is material to our business. We have numerous trademarks, including the Mettler-Toledo name and logo, which are material to our business. We regularly protect against infringement of our intellectual property. Regulation Our products are subject to various regulatory standards and approvals by weights and measures regulatory authorities. All of our electrical components are subject to electrical safety standards. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulations. 8 Table of Contents Approvals are required to ensure our instruments do not impermissibly influence other instruments, and are themselves not affected by other instruments. In addition, some of our products are used in “legal for trade” applications, in which prices based on weight are calculated, and for which specific weights and measures approvals are required. Although there are a large number of regulatory agencies across our markets, there is an increasing trend toward harmonization of standards, and weights and measures regulation is harmonized across the European Union. Our products may also be subject to special requirements depending on the end-user and market. For example, laboratory customers are typically subject to Good Laboratory Practices (GLP), industrial customers to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), pharmaceutical customers to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations, and customers in food processing industries may be subject to Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) regulations. Products used in hazardous environments may also be subject to special requirements. Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We own or lease a number of properties and manufacturing facilities around the world. Like many of our competitors, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such laws and regulations in both the United States and abroad. We are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in certain of our facilities in both the United States and abroad. Our subsidiary Mettler-Toledo Hi-Speed, Inc. (“Hi-Speed”) is one of two private parties ordered to perform certain ground water contamination monitoring under an administrative consent order that the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (“NJDEP”) signed on June 13, 1988 with respect to certain property in Landing, New Jersey. GEI International Corporation (“GEI”) is the other ordered party. GEI has failed to fulfill its obligations under the NJDEP order, and NJDEP has agreed with Hi-Speed that the residual ground water contaminants can be monitored through the establishment of a Classification Exception Area and concurrent Well Restriction Area for the site. The NJDEP does not view these vehicles as remedial measures, but rather as “institutional controls” that must be adequately maintained and periodically evaluated. We estimate that the costs of compliance associated with monitoring ground water contamination levels at the site will be approximately $0.8 million over the next seven years. In addition, certain of our present and former facilities have or had been in operation for many decades and, over such time, some of these facilities may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes which are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that these sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to which we have sent wastes, may in the future be identified and become the subject of remediation. Accordingly, although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements and to date we have not incurred material expenditures in connection with environmental matters, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Competition Our markets are highly competitive. Weighing and analytical instruments markets are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. As a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. In addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. Taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. Although we believe that we have technological and other competitive advantages over many of our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain 9 Table of Contents these advantages. These advantages include our worldwide market leadership positions; our global brand and reputation; our track record of technological innovation; our comprehensive, high-quality solution offering; our global sales and service offering; our large installed base of weighing instruments; and the fact that our revenue base is diversified by geographic region, product range and customer. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or that we will be successful in identifying, developing and maintaining any competitive advantages. We believe that the principal competitive factors in developed markets for purchasing decisions are the product itself, application support, service support and price. In emerging markets, where there is greater demand for less sophisticated products, price is a more important factor than in developed markets. Competition in the U.S. laboratory market is also influenced by the presence of large distributors that sell not only our products but those of our competitors as well. Company Website and Information Our website can be found on the Internet at www.mt.com. The website contains information about us and our operations. Copies of each of our filings with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and Schedule 14A and all amendments to those reports can be viewed and downloaded free of charge when they are filed with the SEC by accessing www.mt.com, clicking on Investor Relations and then clicking on SEC Filings. These filings may also be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our website also contains copies of the following documents that can be downloaded free of charge: • Corporate Governance Guidelines • Audit Committee Charter • Compensation Committee Charter • Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter • Code of Conduct Any of the above documents, and any of our reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and Schedule 14A and all amendments to those reports can also be obtained in print by sending a written request to our Investor Relations Department: Investor Relations Mettler-Toledo International Inc. 1900 Polaris Parkway Columbus, OH 43240 U.S.A. Phone: +1 614 438 4748 Fax: +1 614 438 4646 E-mail: mary.finnegan@mt.com 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors affecting our future operating results Currency fluctuations may affect our operating profits. Because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our operating expenses than Swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our net sales. In part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in Switzerland relate to products that are sold outside Switzerland. Moreover, a substantial percentage of our research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses are incurred in Switzerland. Therefore, if the Swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g., the U.S. dollar, the euro, other major European currencies and the Japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. We also have significantly more sales in European currencies (other than the Swiss franc) than we have expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. Accordingly, the Swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate monitored by the Company. We estimate that a 1% strengthening of the Swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of approximately $1 million on an annual basis. In addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc. Based on our outstanding debt at December 31, 2005, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $33.4 million in the reported U.S. dollar value of the debt. We are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. We conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe and these operations represent a significant potion of our sales and earnings. For example our Chinese Operations account for $116.9 million of sales to external customers and $40.2 million of segment profit. In addition to the currency risks discussed above, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. For instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: • tariffs and trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; • credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • nationalization of private enterprises; • restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; • adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and • other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions, or periods of low or no productivity growth. We must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. For example, converting earnings from our operations in China into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. If we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of China. 11 Table of Contents Economic conditions in emerging markets have from time to time deteriorated significantly, and some emerging markets are experiencing recessionary trends, severe currency devaluations and inflationary prices. Moreover, economic problems in individual markets can spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we face in emerging markets. We remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. However, we expect the fluctuating economic conditions will affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. We operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. Our markets are highly competitive. Weighing and analytical instruments markets are also fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. As a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of whom are well established in their markets. In addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our company. Taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. Although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. Our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. We must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. In developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. As a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. A prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemicals industries could adversely affect our operating results. Our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemicals industries hurt our sales in prior years. A prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures generally. Any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. We may face risks associated with future acquisitions. We plan to pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. If we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in: • new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners; • increases in our debt and contingent liabilities; and 12 Table of Contents • additional amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Any of these acquisition-related risks could materially adversely affect our profitability. Larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. In addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. However, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. Our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. Our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. Although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. The cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. If we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. If we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. Departures of key employees could impair our operations. We have employment contracts with each of our key employees. In addition, our key employees own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. Nevertheless, such individuals could leave the Company. If any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. We have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. We may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to: • air emissions; • wastewater discharges; • the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and • the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. We incur capital and operating expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations both in the U.S. and abroad. We are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in facilities both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, some of these facilities have or had been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. These sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. Accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. We may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies. Our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. In addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. 13 Table of Contents We may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. Starting in 2002, our goodwill amortization charges have ceased. As of December 31, 2005, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $423.0 million and other intangible assets of $105.2 million. Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we will incur. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. The evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. In preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. The significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. Our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. Our drug discovery reporting unit is sensitive to changes in biopharma capital spending. We currently estimate the fair value of the Company’s drug discovery reporting unit exceeds its carrying value as of December 31, 2005. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 142, the Company monitors the fair value of this reporting unit closely to determine if the business plans are being achieved. For example, we monitor whether the forecasted benefits of our drug discovery cost reduction programs are being realized. Should any of these estimates or assumptions in the preceding paragraphs change, or should we incur lower than expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. These types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. Our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by: • changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction; • changes in tax laws or tax rates; • changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; and • material adjustments from tax audits. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. 14 Table of Contents We have substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. We have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness of approximately $125.6 million, net of cash of $324.6 million. We are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. Our debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; • limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and • subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. The indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The restrictions these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • enter into sale and leaseback arrangements; • incur liens; and • consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. Our credit facility also requires us to meet several financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks in this section. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the senior notes or under our credit facility. An event of default under our credit facility would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable. Acceleration of 15 Table of Contents our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. CEO and CFO Certifications Our CEO submits an annual written affirmation to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) certifying the Company’s compliance with NYSE listing rules. The most recent annual affirmation was submitted in 2005. Our CEO and CFO also provide certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in connection with our quarterly and annual financial statement filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The certifications relating to this annual report are attached as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 