ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Rapid Technological Change. The microwave test and measurement industry is characterized by rapid technological change. The Company’s future success will depend upon its ability to continually enhance its current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with the increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers and the technological advancements of its competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace. 13 Dependence on Proprietary Technology. The Company’s success is heavily dependent upon its proprietary technology. The Company does not currently have any material patents and relies principally on trade secret and copyright laws to protect its technology. However, there can be no assurance that these steps will prevent misappropriation of its technology. Moreover, third parties could independently develop technologies that compete with the Company’s technologies. Although the Company believes that its products and proprietary rights do not infringe patents and proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement claims, regardless of merit, will not be asserted against the Company. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection of the Company’s proprietary technology may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Dependence on Alchut; Operations in Israel The Company presently maintains a number of relationships with Alchut, the former majority stockholder of the Company. Alchut is the Company’s principal subcontractor for electro-mechanical production, primarily in connection with the production of positioners. In addition, Alchut provides general and administrative services for the Company’s operations in Israel. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company and Alchut entered into an agreement under which Alchut will continue to provide these services for at least one year. Alchut has continued to provide these services. Alchut maintains its production operations, and the Company maintains part of its engineering operations, in Israel. As a result, the Company may be directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. On May 13, 2008, Orbit-Alchut Technologies, Ltd., (“Alchut”) sold all of its 3.7 million shares of common stock of the Company to Satimo, SA. As part of that transaction, Alchut has agreed to continue to provide the services for a period of one year after the closing of the transaction. Currently the Company’s subsidiary in Israel has signed a lease and is in the process of moving its operations to a new location. The Company anticipates that all the general and administrative services previously provided by Alchut will be in place at the expiry of the one year service agreement on May 13, 2009. As a result of the change in ownership of the Company utilization, of the Company’s domestic net operating loss carryforwards is limited pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such limitation may have an effect on future results of operations. Risks of Fixed-Price Contracts. Virtually all of the Company’s contracts for its systems and products are on a fixed-price basis. The profitability of such contracts is subject to inherent uncertainties as to the cost of completion. In addition to possible errors or omissions in making initial estimates, cost overruns may be incurred as a result of unforeseen obstacles, including both physical conditions and unexpected problems in engineering, design or testing. Since the Company’s business may at certain times be concentrated in a limited number of large contracts, a significant cost overrun on any one contract could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Associated with Entering New Markets. The Company has identified and is evaluating whether to enter into certain complementary markets. The Company’s success in these markets will depend on, among other factors, the Company’s ability to identify markets and develop technologies for such markets on a timely basis, hire and retain skilled management, financial, marketing and engineering personnel, successfully manage growth and obtain capital sufficient to finance such expansion. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully enter these markets. Management of Growth. The Company believes that growth will be required to maintain the Company’s competitive position. Future growth, coupled with the rapid evolution of the Company’s markets, has placed, and is likely to continue to place, significant strains on its management, administrative, operating and financial resources, as well as increased demands on its internal systems, procedures and controls. The Company’s ability to manage future growth will require the Company to continue to improve its financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures on a timely basis, to implement new systems as necessary and to expand, train, motivate and manage its sales and technical personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage its growth 14 successfully. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Associated with International Sales. In 2008 and 2007, international sales (sales to customers outside of North America) comprised approximately 47% and 65%, respectively, of the Company’s total sales, and the Company expects its international business to continue to account for a material part of its revenues. International sales are subject to numerous risks, including political and economic instability in foreign markets, restrictive trade and export policies of foreign governments, inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments, imposition of product tariffs and burdens and costs of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements. Approximately 81% of the Company’s sales in 2008 were denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, the Company believes that it does not have significant exposure to fluctuations in currency. However, fluctuations in currency could adversely affect the Company’s foreign customers. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results. The Company’s operating results have varied from quarter to quarter in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as the size and timing of significant contracts, the mix of third party products and the Company’s proprietary products included in a particular contract, customers’ budgetary constraints, increased competition, the timing of new product announcements and changes in pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of the Company’s products, changes in operating expenses and changes in general economic factors and export license delays and denials. The Company’s expense levels are based, in part, on its expectations as to future revenue levels. If the Company’s revenue levels were to be below expectations, the Company’s operating results would likely be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Qualified Technical Personnel. The Company’s operating results depend in large part upon the efforts of its microwave, software and systems engineers. The success of the Company’s business therefore depends on its ability to attract and retain engineers and other technical personnel. There are a limited number of microwave engineers, and such individuals are sought both by microwave test and measurement companies such as the Company and by manufacturers of wireless products and telecommunications service providers. Competition for such personnel is intense. The Company has at times experienced difficulty in recruiting and retaining technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience difficulties in the future in attracting and in retaining technical personnel. Dependence on Key Personnel. The success of the Company depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of its executive officers and other key personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its managerial and other key personnel or to attract additional managerial and other key personnel if required. Product Liability; Risk of Product Defects. The sale of products and systems by the Company may entail the risk of product liability and related claims. A product liability claim brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Complex software and system products, such as those offered by the Company, may contain defects or failures when introduced or when new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by the Company, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. The Company maintains product liability insurance in the amount of $2.0 million and errors and omissions insurance in the amount of $7.0 million, although there can be no assurance that such coverage will be applicable to a particular claim or that the amounts of such insurance will be adequate if the Company experiences a significant claim. Although the Company has not experienced any significant claims to date related to its systems or products, the occurrence of such a claim could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Competition. The market for automated microwave test and measurement products, systems and services is highly competitive and is characterized by continuing advances in products and technologies. 15 In general, competition in this market comes from major microwave test and measurement vendors, some of which have a longer operating history, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and a larger installed customer base than the Company. These companies also have established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company also competes, on a limited basis, with the internal development groups of its existing and potential customers, who may design and develop parts of their own microwave test and measurement systems. The Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by such competition. Fluctuations in Capital Spending. The Company is dependent upon the wireless communications, satellite, automotive and aerospace/defense industries. Because these industries are characterized by technological change, pricing and gross margin pressure and, particularly in the aerospace/defense industry, government budget constraints, they have from time to time experienced sudden economic downturns. During these periods, capital spending is frequently curtailed and the number of design projects often decreases. Since the Company’s revenues are dependent upon capital spending trends and new design projects, negative factors affecting these industries could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. No Dividends. The Company has never paid cash dividends on its Common Stock and does not anticipate that any cash dividends will be declared or paid in the foreseeable future. Issuance of Preferred Stock and Common Stock; Anti-Takeover Provisions. Pursuant to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company has an authorized class of 2,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock which may be issued by the Board of Directors with such terms and such rights, preferences and designations as the Board may determine and without any vote of the stockholders, unless otherwise required by law. Issuance of such Preferred Stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations thereof, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Issuance of additional shares of Common Stock could result in dilution of the voting power of the Common Stock. In addition, certain “anti-takeover” provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law among other things, may restrict the ability of the stockholders to approve a merger or business combination or obtain control of the Company. Market for Common Stock. The Company’s Common Stock is traded on the OTCBB, which limits exposure to market analysts and, in turn, may limit volume of trading. Investors may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, the Company’s common stock than would otherwise be the case were the Company’s Common Stock listed on a more recognized stock exchange or quotation service. In addition, trading in the Company’s Common Stock is currently subject to certain rules under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock.” Penny stocks are generally non-Nasdaq equity securities with a market price less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock rules require broker-dealers selling penny stocks to make certain disclosures about such stocks to purchasers thereof, and impose sales practice restrictions on broker-dealers in certain penny stock transactions. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these rules may discourage them from effecting transactions in the Company’s Common Stock, which could limit the liquidity of the common stock and the ability of the Company’s stockholders to sell their stock in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 