Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Risks Related to Our Business The loss of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Ralph Lauren’s leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our Company. The death or disability of Mr. Lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering Mr. Lauren, our other executive officers and certain other members of senior management. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and our other executive officers. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and our other executive officers, but the noncompete period with respect to Mr. Lauren and certain other executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with the Company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend our brands, expand our geographic coverage and increase direct management of our brands by opening more of our own stores, strategically acquiring or integrating select licenses previously held by our licensees and enhancing our operations. Implementation of our strategy involves the continued expansion of our business in Europe, Asia and other international areas. As discussed in Item 1 — “Recent Developments,” on May 29, 2007, we acquired a controlling interest in Impact 21, as part of the Tender Offer, and the remaining 50% interest in PRL Japan. We also acquired in April 2007 our previously licensed belts and leather goods business and the remaining 50% interest in RL Media on March 28, 2007. In Fiscal 2006 we acquired our previously licensed men’s and women’s casual apparel and sportswear in the U.S. and Canada from Jones Apparel Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Polo Jeans Business”). In addition, in Fiscal 2006, we acquired our previously licensed men’s, women’s and children’s footwear from Reebok International Ltd. (“Footwear Business”). We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations, hiring and retaining qualified key employees, or otherwise successfully managing such expansion. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. Implementation of our strategy involves the continuation, and expansion of our distribution network, both in the U.S. and abroad. We may not be able to procure, purchase or lease desirable free-standing, or department store locations, or renew and maintain existing free-standing store leases and department store locations on acceptable terms. In Europe we lack the large wholesale distribution channels we have in the U.S., and we may have difficulty developing successful distribution strategies and alliances in each of the major European countries. In Japan, our primary mode of distribution is via a network of shops located within the leading department stores. We may have difficulty in successfully retaining this network, and expanding into alternate distribution channels. Additionally, macroeconomic trends may not be favorable, and could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies in select geographies where we have foreign operations, such as Europe and Asia. 19 Our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. Several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. We believe that a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners, including sales made by our sales force of Ralph Lauren Home products, are also made to our largest department store customers. In Fiscal 2007, sales to Federated Department Stores, Inc. represented 29% of our wholesale net sales and sales to Dillard Department Stores, Inc. represented 14% of our wholesale net sales. In the aggregate, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 67% of our wholesale net sales during Fiscal 2007. There can be no assurance that consolidations in the department store sector will not have a material adverse effect on our wholesale business. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the U.S. and Europe and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. Two of our customers, Dillard Department Stores, Inc. and Federated Department Stores, Inc. in the aggregate constituted 37% of trade accounts receivable outstanding as of March 31, 2007. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. See Item 1 — “Credit Control.” Certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters could adversely impact our results of operations. We are involved in certain legal proceedings and are subject to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters and other litigations. Certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to the Company or have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation or relations with its employees, customers, licensees or other third parties. Further, changes in governmental regulations both in the U.S. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion of the Company’s legal matters. Our business could suffer if our computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. The Company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business. We also utilize a sophisticated automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. Given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Despite our efforts to prevent, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages. In addition, we are currently undergoing a system conversion that is intended to establish a common platform across our various wholesale businesses, which is expected to be completed by the end of Fiscal 2010 across all of our wholesale divisions. The risk of disruption is increased when complex systems changes of this type are undertaken. If our systems are damaged or fail to function effectively, the Company will likely have to make a significant monetary investment to fix or replace them and the Company could endure interruptions or 20 delays in its operations. Any material interruption in our computer operations could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products. As of March 31, 2007, we source a significant portion of our products outside the U.S. through arrangements with over 350 foreign vendors in various countries. In Fiscal 2007, over 99%, by dollar value, of our products were produced outside the U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe and South America. Risks inherent in importing our products include: • quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements with China and non-WTO countries. These agreements limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from these countries; • changes in social, political and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; • the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; • the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; • significant fluctuations of the cost of raw materials; • significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; • the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and • the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the U.S. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include: • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: • political instability and terrorist attacks; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., the European Union, Japan, or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to significantly modify our current business practices. 21 Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. Significant counterfeiting of our products continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some trademarks that include Polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have in the past resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting or a material adverse effect on our business or brands arising from imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. See Item 1 — “Trademarks,” and Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.” Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer’s inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by international manufacturers. During Fiscal 2007, less than 1%, by dollar value, of our men’s and women’s products were manufactured in the U.S. and over 99%, by dollar value, of these products were manufactured in other countries. Two of the manufacturers engaged by us accounted for approximately 12% and 8% of our total production during Fiscal 2007. The primary production facilities of these two manufacturers are located in Asia. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. See Item 1 — “Sourcing, Production and Quality.” We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. 22 Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales and licensing revenue generally is derived from sales in foreign currencies. These foreign currencies include the Japanese Yen, the Euro and the Pound Sterling, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7 — “Market Risk Management.” We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner’s ability to: • obtain capital; • manage its labor relations; • maintain relationships with its suppliers; • manage its credit risk effectively; and • maintain relationships with its customers. Although some of our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our licensing partners’ products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. Changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. See Item 1 — “Our Licensing Segment.” Failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. See Item 1 — “Our Licensing Segment.” Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry. We face a variety of intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • maintaining favorable brand recognition; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; • appropriately pricing products; 23 • providing strong and effective marketing support; • creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers; and • obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail stores. We also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel and home products through the Internet. Although RL Media sells our products domestically through the Internet, increased competition in the worldwide apparel, accessories and home product industries from Internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion trends and consumer demands. Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business. At the same time, our focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to time, in our not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand and cause us to lose sales. See Item 1 — “Sourcing, Production and Quality.” A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many economic factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance and home products industries, including, among others: • general business conditions; • economic downturns; • employment levels; • downturns in the stock market; • interest rates; • the housing market; • consumer debt levels; • the availability of consumer credit; • increases in fuel prices; • taxation; and • consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products may materially adversely affect our businesses and our revenues and profits. 24 The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending. 