Item 1A. Risk Factors This annual report on Form 10-K contains statements, which are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements contain projections of the Company’s future results of operations or financial position or state other forward-looking information. In some cases you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “should,” “will” and “would” or similar words. You should not rely on forward-looking statements, because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated future results, 6 performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that might cause these differences are as follows: If we are unable to establish new laundry leases, renew our existing laundry leases or retain relationships with our customers who are not subject to leases, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our laundry facilities management business unit, which provided 82% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, is highly dependent upon the renewal of leases with property owners or property management companies. Leases that we have entered into or renewed since 2001 provide for an average initial term of seven years. Approximately 10% to 15% of our leases are up for renewal each year. We have traditionally relied upon exclusive, long-term leases with our customers, as well as frequent customer interaction and an emphasis on customer service, to assure continuity of financial and operating results. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to establish long-term leases with new customers or renew existing long term leases as they expire on favorable terms, or at all. Failure by us to continue to establish long-term leases with new customers, or to successfully renew existing long-term leases as they expire, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, approximately 10% of our customers are not subject to leases, are subject to short term leases of less than one year remaining, or have the right to terminate their lease with us at their option. Failure to retain these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We face strong competition in the outsourced laundry facilities management industry. The outsourced laundry facilities management industry is highly competitive, and we compete for long-term leases, both locally and nationally, with property owners and other operators in the industry. We compete based on customer service, reputation, facilities management rent rates, incentive payments and a range of products and services. Smaller local and regional operators typically have long standing relationships with property owners and managers in their specific geographic market. As such, we may have difficulty penetrating such markets, as property owners and managers may be resistant to terminating such long-standing relationships. We also compete with property owners, as there is no guarantee that property owners will continue to outsource their laundry facilities management to operators. Nationally, there is one competitor in the industry, Coinmach Corporation, with a larger installed equipment base than us. Competition in the industry may make it more difficult and more expensive to consummate acquisitions in the future and to maintain and expand our installed equipment base. In addition, some of our competitors may have less indebtedness than we do, and therefore, more of their cash is potentially available for business purposes other than debt service. We cannot assure you that our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected by competition, or that we will be able to maintain our profitability if the competitive environment changes. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to finance the significant capital expenditures required to replace equipment and implement new technology or make incentive payments to property managers. We must continue to make capital expenditures in order to maintain and replace our installed equipment base and implement new technology in our equipment. We must also make incentive payments to some property managers in order to secure new customer leases and renew existing customer leases. While we anticipate that existing capital resources, as well as cash from operations, will be adequate to finance anticipated capital expenditures and incentive payments for at least the next year, we cannot assure you that our resources or cash flows will be sufficient. To the extent that available resources are insufficient to fund our capital needs, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or curtail certain expenditures. These financings may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and, in the 7 case of equity financings, could result in dilution to stockholders. If we cannot maintain or replace our equipment as we require or implement our new technologies, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to continue our relationships with Whirlpool and other equipment suppliers, our revenues could be reduced, and our ability to meet customer requirements could be materially and adversely affected. We purchase substantially all of the equipment that we use in our laundry facilities management business unit from Whirlpool. In addition, we derive a significant amount of our product sales revenue from our position as a distributor of Whirlpool commercial laundry products. We cannot assure you that Whirlpool will continue its relationship with us. If Whirlpool terminates its relationship with us, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and further, we may be unable to replace our relationship with Whirlpool with a comparable company on favorable terms, or at all. Whirlpool has become our largest supplier of laundry equipment following its acquisition of Maytag Corporation in March 2006. There have been no significant changes in our relationship as a result of the acquisition. In addition, we currently obtain the products used by our MicroFridge business from two suppliers. If either of these suppliers terminates or demands a substantial revision of the contracts or business relationships currently in place, we may be unable to find a replacement in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet customer demands. The MicroFridge business has a non-competition agreement with Sanyo whereby Sanyo is precluded from entering the MicroFridge market provided that certain minimum annual quantities of products are purchased from Sanyo. If we are unable to meet the minimum requirements stipulated in the agreement, Sanyo may enter the MicroFridge market and, as a result, our market share may decrease. In addition, as our agreement with Sanyo has a one year term and is renegotiated annually, there is a possibility that Sanyo may choose not to renew the agreement. A decrease in multi-unit housing sector occupancy rates in the markets in which we conduct business could adversely affect our facilities management revenue. Our facilities management revenue from our operation of card- and coin-operated laundry equipment, particularly in the multi-unit housing sector, depends partially upon the level of tenant occupancy. The number of apartments occupied in an apartment building with a vended laundry facility directly affects our revenue. Extended periods of reduced occupancy in our clients’ buildings can adversely affect our operations. The level of occupancy can be adversely affected by many market and general economic conditions, all of which are beyond our control, including: · local economic recessions and increases in the unemployment rate; · oversupply of apartments; and · conversion of apartment units to condominiums. If we are unable to access capital on acceptable financial terms, our ability to consummate acquisitions will be limited. The success of our long-term growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify, finance and consummate acquisitions on acceptable financial terms. Access to capital is subject to the following risks: · use of common stock as acquisition consideration may result in dilution to stockholders; 8 · if our common stock does not maintain a sufficient valuation or if potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept shares of our common stock, then we would be required to increase our use of cash resources or other consideration to consummate acquisitions; · if we are unable to generate sufficient cash for acquisitions from existing operations, we will not be able to consummate acquisitions unless we are able to obtain additional capital through external financings, which we may not be able to consummate on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; · funding future acquisitions through debt financing would result in additional leverage; and · the agreements governing our indebtedness include significant limitations on our ability to borrow money for acquisitions and other purposes and, as a result, we may not be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. We may have difficulties integrating future acquisitions into our business. We have in the past, and intend to in the future, engage in acquisitions to continue the expansion of our laundry facilities management business unit. The failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquisition would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any future acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including: · potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; · difficulty integrating the operations of the acquired businesses; · unanticipated expenses related to equipment, maintenance and technology integration; · exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies that we may acquire; · additional costs due to entering new geographic locations and duplication of key talent; · potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses; · the inability to achieve anticipated synergies or increase the revenue and profit of the acquired business; and · the expenditure of a disproportionate amount of money and time integrating acquired businesses, particularly operations located in new geographic regions and operations involving new lines of business. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be adequate and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their adequacy, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires a reporting company such as ours to, among other things, annually review and disclose its internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate and disclose changes in its internal controls over financial reporting quarterly. Although we were successful in 2006, if we are not able to achieve and maintain adequate compliance or our independent auditors are not able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could adversely affect our results. 9 Our MicroFridge® products may be susceptible to product liability claims for which our current levels of insurance coverage may not be adequate. Through our MicroFridge® business, we market and distribute combination refrigerator/freezer/ microwave oven units under the brand name MicroFridge®. The sale and distribution of MicroFridge® units, as well as other products, entails a risk of product liability claims. Although MicroFridge® units are manufactured by third parties under contract with us, we may still be subject to risks of product liability claims related to MicroFridge® units. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our product liability insurance coverage or may be excluded from that coverage. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our existing product liability insurance at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that currently in place, if at all. In the event that our MicroFridge® business is held liable for a claim for which it is not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of our product liability insurance coverage, the claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Inability to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights could adversely impact our competitive position. We rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and employee and third party non-disclosure and non-solicitation agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate any of our intellectual property or proprietary rights. While we have periodically made filings with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, we have traditionally relied upon the protections afforded by contract rights and common law ownership rights, and we cannot assure you that these contract rights and common law ownership rights will adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Any infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could damage their value and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have to engage in litigation to protect our rights to our intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could result in significant litigation expenses and require a significant amount of management’s time. We own or license several registered and unregistered trademarks, including Mac-Gray, Web, MicroFridge, Intelligent Laundry Solutions, LaundryView, LaundryLinx, PrecisionWash, TechLinx, VentSnake, IntelliVault, and SnackMate that we use in the marketing and sale of our products. However, the degree of protection that these trademarks afford us is unknown and these trademarks may expire or be terminated. In the event that someone infringes on or misappropriates our trademarks, the brand images and reputations, which we have developed, could be damaged and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on key personnel, and the loss of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, management teams and certain other key employees. The loss of any of these officers or other key employees could result in inefficiencies in our operations, lost business opportunities or the loss of one or more customers. See “Management.” We have significant intangible assets and goodwill, the value of which might not be realized in the event of an impairment in, or a sale or liquidation of our businesses. At December 31, 2006, approximately $164.0 million, or 48.4%, of our total assets were intangible assets, consisting primarily of contract rights and goodwill. In the event of a sale or liquidation, there can be no assurance that the value of our intangible assets would be realized. 10 We face risks associated with environmental regulation. Our business and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants, the handling, generation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. In connection with current or historical operations by us or at our sites, we could incur substantial costs, including clean up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. While we are not aware of any existing or potential environmental claims against us that are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot guarantee you that we will not in the future incur liability or other costs under environmental laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. We are controlled by a concentrated group of stockholders, whose interests could be in conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2006, our directors, executive officers, and certain of our stockholders related to such persons and their affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 35.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. See Item 12, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matters” below. This percentage ownership does not include options to purchase 485,000 shares of our common stock held by some of these persons, which are exercisable at, or 60 days subsequent to, December 31, 2006. If all of these options had been exercised as of December 31, 2006, then these stockholders and their affiliates would have beneficially owned 40.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Additionally, we have entered into a stockholders’ agreement, dated June 26, 1997, with some of these stockholders that gives them rights of first offer to purchase shares of our common stock offered for sale by another stockholder party thereto. See Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence” below. As a result of this concentration in ownership, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of the election of directors and all other matters requiring approval by a majority of stockholders. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of this group of stockholders could be in conflict with interests of other stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, Delaware law, and the stockholder rights agreement could have the effect of discouraging takeovers. Specific provisions of our charter and bylaws, as described below; sections of the corporate law of Delaware; the stockholder rights agreement, and powers of our Board of Directors may discourage takeover attempts not first approved by the Board of Directors, including takeovers which some stockholders may deem to be in their best interests. These provisions and powers of the Board of Directors could delay or prevent the removal of incumbent directors or the assumption of control by stockholders, even if the particular removal or assumption of control would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions and powers of the Board of Directors could also discourage or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, even if these events would be beneficial, in the short term, to the interests of stockholders. The anti-takeover provisions and powers of the Board of Directors include, among other things: · the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to establish the voting rights, preferences and other terms of such preferred stock; · a classified Board of Directors serving staggered three-year terms; · the elimination of stockholder voting by written consent; · the absence of cumulative voting for directors; 11 · the removal of directors only for cause; · the vesting of exclusive authority in our Board of Directors to determine the size of the Board of Directors and, subject to the rights of holders of any series of preferred stock, if issued, to fill vacancies thereon; · the vesting of exclusive authority in our Board of Directors, except as otherwise required by law, to call special meetings of stockholders; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the Board of Directors; · ownership restrictions, under the corporate law of Delaware, with limited exceptions, upon acquirers including their affiliates and associates of 15% or more of its common stock; and · our entry into a shareholder rights agreement providing for the issuance of rights that will cause substantial dilution to a person or group of persons that acquires 15% or more of the common shares unless the rights are redeemed. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None. 12 