RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood of Adverse Impact to the Company’s Profitability Jet fuel costs are subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict, including increases in demand, sudden disruptions in supply and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. For example, although they declined in the 2010 fiscal year, oil prices increased substantially in fiscal years 2011, 2012 and 2013 and remain at elevated levels. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair’s fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates, or the unavailability of adequate fuel supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from international terrorism, prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions or the suspension of production by any significant producer, may adversely affect Ryanair’s profitability. In the event of a fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, additional increases in fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services could result. Ryanair has historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering periods of up to 18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements. Ryanair (like many other airlines) has, in more recent periods, entered into hedging arrangements on a more selective basis. As of July 26, 2013, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014 at prices equivalent to approximately $980 per metric ton. In addition, as of July 26, 2013, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 75% of its estimated requirements for the first half of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2015 at prices equivalent to approximately $935 per metric ton, and had not entered into any jet fuel hedging contracts with respect to its expected fuel purchases beyond that period. Because of the limited nature of its hedging program, Ryanair is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, and movements in the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate, especially in light of the recent volatility in the relevant currency and commodity markets. Any further increase in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on Ryanair’s financial performance. In addition, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro could have an adverse effect on the cost of buying fuel in euro. As of July 26, 2013, Ryanair had hedged approximately 90% of its forecasted fuel-related dollar purchases against the euro at a rate of approximately $1.31 per euro for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014 and approximately 85% of its forecasted fuel related dollar purchases against the euro at a rate of approximately $1.32 per euro for the first 6 months of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2015. No assurances whatsoever can be given about trends in fuel prices, and average fuel prices for future years may be significantly higher than current prices. Management estimates that every $10 movement in the price of a metric ton of jet fuel will impact Ryanair’s costs by approximately €17.1 million, taking into account Ryanair’s hedging programme for the 2014 fiscal year. There can be no assurance, however, in this regard, and the impact of fuel prices on Ryanair’s operating results may be more pronounced. There also cannot be any assurance that Ryanair’s current or any future arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from increases in the price of fuel or that Ryanair will not incur losses due to high fuel prices, either alone or in combination with other factors. Because of Ryanair’s low fares and its no-fuel-surcharges policy, as well as Ryanair’s expansion plans, which could have a negative impact on yields, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is somewhat limited. Moreover, the anticipated expansion of Ryanair’s fleet from September 2014 onwards will result in an increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair’s aggregate fuel costs. Ryanair Has Decided to Seasonally Ground Aircraft. In recent years, in response to an operating environment characterized by high fuel prices, typically lower winter yields and higher airport charges and/or taxes, Ryanair has adopted a policy of grounding a certain portion of its fleet during the winter months (from November to March). In the winter of fiscal year 2013, Ryanair grounded approximately 80 aircraft and the Company intends to again ground approximately 60 aircraft in the coming winter. Ryanair’s adoption of the policy of seasonally grounding aircraft presents some risks. While Ryanair seeks to implement its seasonal grounding policy in a way that will allow it to reduce losses by operating flights during periods of high oil prices to high cost airports at low winter yields, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful. 7 Table of Contents Additionally, Ryanair’s growth has been largely dependent on increasing summer capacity, and decreasing winter capacity may affect the overall future growth of Ryanair. Further, while seasonal grounding does reduce Ryanair’s variable operating costs, it does not avoid fixed costs such as aircraft ownership costs and some staff costs, and it also decreases Ryanair’s potential to earn ancillary revenues. Decreasing the number and frequency of flights may also negatively affect Ryanair’s labor relations, including its ability to attract flight personnel only interested in full-time employment. Such risks could lead to negative effects on Ryanair’s financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Associated with the Euro. The Company is headquartered in Ireland and its reporting currency is the euro. As a result of the ongoing uncertainty arising from the Eurozone debt crisis, in 2012 there was widespread speculation that some member states could exit the Eurozone or that there may be a potential break-up of the Eurozone currency union, including with regard to Ireland, the country in which the Company is headquartered. If a Eurozone participating member state were to leave the Eurozone, there is a risk of contagion spreading to the remaining members. Ryanair predominantly operates to/from countries within the Eurozone and has significant operational and financial exposures to the Eurozone that could result in a reduction in the operating performance of Ryanair or the devaluation of certain assets. Ryanair has taken certain risk management measures to minimize any disruptions, however these risk management measures may fail to address the potential fall-out from a break-up of the euro or an exit by one, or more, of the Eurozone members. The Company has cash and aircraft assets and debt liabilities that are denominated in euro on its balance sheet. In addition, the positive/negative mark-to-market value of derivative-based transactions are recorded in euro as either assets or liabilities on the Company’s balance sheet. A potential exit of a member state or the break-up of the Eurozone could have a materially adverse effect on the value of these assets and liabilities. In addition to the assets and liabilities on Ryanair’s balance sheet, the Company has a number of cross currency risks as a result of the jurisdictions of the operating business including non-euro revenues, fuel costs, certain maintenance costs and insurance costs. A weakening in the value of the euro primarily against U.K. pound sterling and U.S. dollar, but also against other non-Eurozone European currencies and Moroccan Dirhams, could negatively impact the operating results of the Company. Recession, austerity and the possible breakup of the euro could also mean that Ryanair is unable to grow. The current European recession and austerity measures introduced within Europe all mean that Ryanair may be unable to expand its operations due to lack of demand for air travel. Furthermore, the possible breakup of the euro and resulting financial crisis could also lead to a dampening of demand for air travel. Currency Fluctuations Affect the Company’s Results. Although the Company is headquartered in Ireland, a significant portion of its operations are conducted in the U.K. Consequently, the Company has significant operating revenues and operating expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, denominated in U.K. pounds sterling. In addition, fuel, aircraft, insurance, and some maintenance obligations are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company’s operations and financial performance can therefore be significantly affected by fluctuations in the values of the U.K. pound sterling and the U.S. dollar. Ryanair is particularly vulnerable to direct exchange rate risks between the euro and the U.S. dollar because a significant portion of its operating costs are incurred in U.S. dollars and none of its revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. Although the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions between the euro and the U.S. dollar, between the euro and the U.K. pound sterling, and between the U.K. pound sterling and the U.S. dollar, hedging activities cannot be expected to eliminate currency risks. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 8 Table of Contents The Company May Not Be Successful in Increasing Fares and Revenues to Offset Higher Business Costs. Ryanair operates a low-fares airline. The success of its business model depends on its ability to control costs so as to deliver low fares while at the same time earning a profit. Ryanair has limited control over its fuel costs and already has comparatively low operating costs. In periods of high fuel costs, if Ryanair is unable to further reduce its other operating costs or generate additional revenues, operating profits are likely to fall. Ryanair cannot offer any assurances regarding its future profitability. Changes in fuel costs and fuel availability could have a material adverse impact on Ryanair’s results and could also increase the likelihood that Ryanair may incur losses. See “—The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment” below and “—Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood of Adverse Impact to the Company’s Profitability” above. The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Alleging State Aid at Certain Airports. Formal investigations are ongoing by the European Commission into Ryanair’s agreements with the Lübeck, Berlin (Schönefeld), Alghero, Pau, Aarhus, Frankfurt (Hahn), Dusseldorf (Weeze), Zweibrücken, Altenburg, Klagenfurt, Stockholm (Vasteras), Paris (Beauvais), La Rochelle, Carcassonne, Nimes, Angouleme, Marseille, Brussels (Charleroi) and Cagliari airports. The investigations seek to determine whether the arrangements constitute illegal state aid under EU law. The investigations are expected to be completed in late 2013/early 2014, with the European Commission’s decisions being appealable to the EU General Court. Investigations into Ryanair’s agreements with the Bratislava and Tampere airports concluded respectively in 2010 and 2012 with findings that these agreements contained no state aid. In addition to the European Commission investigations, Ryanair is facing allegations that it has benefited from unlawful state aid in a number of court cases, including in relation to its arrangements with Frankfurt (Hahn) and Lübeck airports. The court case regarding Frankfurt (Hahn) airport has been referred by the German courts to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will make a ruling on the discretion national courts have in state aid proceedings running in parallel with European Commission investigations regarding the same airport. The ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union is expected within one year and will be binding on all EU national courts. Adverse rulings in the above state aid matters could be used as precedents by competitors to challenge Ryanair’s agreements with other publicly owned airports and could cause Ryanair to strongly reconsider its growth strategy in relation to public or state-owned airports across Europe. This could in turn lead to a scaling-back of Ryanair’s overall growth strategy due to the smaller number of privately owned airports available for development. On July 25, 2012, the European Commission decided that Ryanair, along with Aer Lingus and Aer Arann, had been in receipt of unlawful state aid from the Irish government as a result of being an identified beneficiary of the two-tier air travel tax in place for flights departing from Irish airports between March 2009 and March 2011. Ryanair was the original complainant to the European Commission, alleging that the air travel tax favored Aer Arann and Aer Lingus. Ryanair appealed the decision of the European Commission to the EU General Court on November 14, 2012. Judgment is expected within 18-24 months of the date of filing. The EU General Court may affirm or annul the European Commission decision. The Irish State is obliged to recover the unlawful state aid from Ryanair before the Irish courts notwithstanding Ryanair’s appeal of the EU Commission decision, and initiated its claim in April 2013. The Irish State is seeking approximately €12 million plus interest from Ryanair in these proceedings. Ryanair has also issued proceedings before the Irish courts for recovery of the entire amount of the air travel tax paid during the period March 2009 – March 2011 on the basis of the two-tier nature of the tax being unlawful under EU law. Ryanair is seeking approximately €88 million from the Irish State in these proceedings. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of these legal proceedings, nor as to whether any unfavorable outcomes may, individually or in the aggregate, have an adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition of Ryanair. For additional information, please see “Item 8. Financial Information—Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” 9 Table of Contents The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment. Ryanair operates in a highly competitive marketplace, with a number of low-fare, traditional and charter airlines competing throughout its route network. Airlines compete primarily in respect of fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, name recognition, passenger amenities (such as access to frequent flyer programmes), and the availability and convenience of other passenger services. Unlike Ryanair, certain competitors are state-owned or state-controlled flag carriers and in some cases may have greater name recognition and resources and may have received, or may receive in the future, significant amounts of subsidies and other state aid from their respective governments. In addition, the EU-U.S. Open Skies Agreement, which came into effect in March 2008, allows U.S. carriers to offer services in the intra-EU market, which could eventually result in increased competition in the EU market. See “