Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the risk factors that Reis’s management believes are material to Reis at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing Reis and there may be additional matters that Reis is unaware of or that Reis currently considers immaterial. Any or all of these could adversely affect Reis’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Reis Generally Our common stock is thinly traded and there may continue to be little or no liquidity for shares of our common stock. Historically, our common stock has been thinly traded and an active trading market for our common stock may not develop. In the absence of an active public trading market, investors trying to sell their shares may find it difficult to find buyers for their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Our Board may authorize transactions with respect to our common stock. These transactions may include a reverse stock split or odd-lot or other share repurchase programs. Between December 2008 and June 2010, our Board authorized the repurchase of an aggregate of $4,000,000 of our common stock. These repurchases, which were completed in December 2010, resulted in the repurchase of 7.6% of our outstanding shares. All decisions regarding any such transactions will be at the discretion of our Board and will be evaluated from time to time by the Board in light of the price per share of our common stock, the number of shares of our common stock outstanding, applicable Nasdaq rules, applicable law and other factors that our Board deems relevant. If we effect any such transaction, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares that would be outstanding after the transaction. In addition, a share repurchase program requires the payment of cash by Reis to stockholders, which could adversely impact our liquidity. If we effect a reverse stock split, there can be no assurance that the market price per share of our common stock after the reverse stock split will rise or remain constant in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding before the reverse stock split. Our executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock and have significant control of our management and affairs, and they may take actions which may not be in the best interest of other stockholders. The executive officers and directors of Reis in the aggregate beneficially owned approximately 27.7% of Reis’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2010. Of this total, Lloyd Lynford and Jonathan Garfield, each of whom is an executive officer and a director of the Company, beneficially owned 11.4% and 7.7%, respectively. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies where management holds a significant percentage of the voting power. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving Reis, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a change of control might be seen as beneficial to other Reis stockholders. Our business depends on retaining and attracting capable management and operating personnel. The implementation and development of Reis’s business plan require the skills and knowledge of our senior executives, sales, technology and operational personnel. Reis may not be able to offset the impact of the loss of the services of these individuals or other key officers or employees because its business requires skilled management, as well as technical, product and technology, and sales and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in the information industry, and the loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees could have a material adverse impact on Reis. Although Reis uses various incentive programs to retain and attract key personnel, these measures may not be sufficient to either attract or retain, as applicable, the personnel required to ensure our success. In addition, issuances pursuant to our incentive plans may result in dilution to Reis stockholders. The loss of one or more of our senior executives, sales, technology and operational personnel could have a material adverse impact on the continuing operations of Reis and could adversely affect the market price of Reis’s common stock. Our governing documents and Maryland law contain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Reis’s articles of amendment and restatement contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of Reis by merger, tender offer, proxy contest, or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our Board. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of Reis even if a change of control might be seen as beneficial by other Reis stockholders. This could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of Reis’s common stock. Reis’s governing documents: 9 Table of Contents • provide for a classified board of directors, which could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control; and • authorize the issuance of blank check stock that could be issued by Reis’s Board to thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares or an affiliate thereof are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless waived by the then existing board. The Board may approve certain transactions or exempt certain interested stockholders at any time prior to a party becoming an interested stockholder. At the time of Wellsford’s initial public offering in 1997, the Board exempted from the Maryland statute any business combinations with Jeffrey Lynford (a director and a 5% stockholder of the Company), Edward Lowenthal (chairman of the Board), or any of their respective affiliates or any other person acting in concert or as a group with any of such persons, and, consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between such persons and Reis. Increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $11,222,000 of variable rate debt outstanding. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the interest rate on our debt was LIBOR + 1.50% and ranged from a low of 1.74% to a high of 1.87% during the year, based upon changes in the 30 day LIBOR. The 30 day LIBOR was 0.26% at December 31, 2010. We may incur additional variable rate indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Through June 30, 2010, we limited our exposure to significant interest rate increases on $15,000,000 of our then existing variable rate debt by purchasing an interest rate cap as required by our Bank Loan. In deciding whether to purchase interest rate caps or other hedging instruments, we weigh the value of protection against significant increases in interest rates against the cost of such instruments. Based on the December 31, 2010 debt balance, a 1% increase in the base interest rate on our variable rate debt would result in approximately $112,000 of additional interest being incurred on an annualized basis. The interest rate cap expired at June 30, 2010. Declines in operational performance could cause financial covenants to be violated on our outstanding debt. Provisions in the Bank Loan impose restrictions on Reis Services’s ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • amend its organizational documents; • pay for public company costs; • pay dividends and make distributions to the Company; • redeem or repurchase outstanding equity; • make certain investments; • create certain liens; • enter into transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • undergo a change of control; and • make certain fundamental changes, including engaging in a merger or consolidation. The credit agreement also contains other customary covenants, including covenants which require Reis Services to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. If Reis Services were not able to comply with these covenants in the future, the failure to do so may result in the declaration of an event of default. Furthermore, certain events, such as the delisting of our common stock from a national stock exchange or the voluntary or involuntary filing by Reis under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law (which is not stayed or dismissed within certain time periods), will cause an event of default. In addition, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may 10 Table of Contents result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, which would require Reis Services to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, Reis Services may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of this indebtedness is accelerated, Reis Services or Reis may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In particular, the interest rate under the Bank Loan is significantly lower than the interest rate the Company would likely be able to obtain on new financing. Furthermore, the Bank Loan is secured by Reis Services’s assets and, therefore, these assets would not be available to secure additional credit. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s consolidated cash and cash equivalents balance aggregated approximately $20,164,000, including approximately $15,912,000 in the Reis Services segment, and the outstanding balance of the Bank Loan was approximately $11,222,000. Our ability to use our net tax operating loss carryforwards will be subject to limitation and could be eliminated. The Company has aggregate NOL carryfowards aggregating approximately $40,400,000 at December 31, 2010. These NOLs include NOLs generated subsequent to the Merger, losses from Private Reis prior to the Merger, losses obtained from the Company’s 1998 merger with Value Property Trust (“VLP”) and the Company’s operating losses prior to the Merger. Approximately $27,300,000 of these NOLs are subject to an annual limitation, whereas $13,100,000 are not subject to such a limitation. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code. In general, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on a corporation’s ability to use its net operating losses, or NOLs, from taxable years or periods ending on or before the date of an ownership change to offset U.S. Federal taxable income in any post-change year. The historic Wellsford business experienced such an ownership change as a result of the May 2007 merger and the pre-change NOLs of the historic Wellsford business are subject to the limitation under Section 382. The Section 382 annual limitation on our use of the historic Wellsford NOLs is approximately $2,779,000 per year through 2027. Moreover, if a corporation experiences an ownership change and does not satisfy the continuity of business enterprise, or COBE, requirement (which generally requires that the corporation continue its historic business or use a significant portion of its historic business assets in a business for the two year period beginning on the date of the ownership change), it cannot, subject to certain exceptions, use any NOL from a pre-change period to offset taxable income in post-change years. Although there can be no assurance that this requirement was definitively met within the two year period subsequent to the May 2007 Merger, with respect to the ownership change effected by the May 2007 Merger, our management believes there is a tax return basis for stating that the COBE requirements were met through the required two year period subsequent to the ownership change. We have NOL carryforwards, for Federal income tax purposes, resulting from Wellsford’s merger with VLP in 1998 and operating losses in 2004, 2006 and 2007 (prior to the Merger). Assuming we are able to satisfy the COBE requirement described above, we would have approximately $27,300,000 of NOLs at December 31, 2010, which expire from 2017 through 2027 (approximately $5,500,000 of NOLs expire in 2017). The actual ability to utilize the tax benefit of any existing NOLs will be subject to future facts and circumstances with respect to meeting the above described COBE and annual limitation requirements at the time NOLs are being utilized on a tax return. Realization of the Wellsford NOLs does not meet the criteria under GAAP for financial statement recognition, and accordingly, no asset and valuation allowance related thereto has been reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company has utilized an aggregate of approximately $5,800,000 of these NOLs in its Federal tax return filings for 2008 and 2009, with appropriate disclosure. In addition, the Company and Private Reis have additional NOL carryforwards aggregating approximately $13,100,000 (which amount is also net of approximately $5,800,000 of utilized NOLs in 2008 and 2009) at December 31, 2010, expiring in the years 2019 to 2030 which are not subject to an annual limitation. These losses may be utilized against consolidated taxable income, all of which amount is available for use for financial statement reporting purposes at December 31, 2010. Risk Factors Relating to Our Commercial Real Estate Information Services Business A failure to attract and retain subscribers could harm our business. We must acquire new subscribers and expand our business with our current subscribers in order to grow our business. Our ability to grow our business will be adversely impacted to the extent that current subscribers reduce or discontinue the use of Reis SE, or if we are unable to locate and have prospects subscribe to Reis SE. This may occur due to budgetary constraints, which was particularly true during the economic downturn that began in 2008, or if our product offering is less competitive with those of other companies in our industry. Prior to the economic downturn in 2008, our overall trailing twelve month renewal rates were above 94% for many years. In the latter part of 2008 and in 2009, we experienced an overall decrease in the total number of our subscribers and a reduction in our trailing twelve month renewal rates. The overall trailing twelve month renewal rate hit its low point of 83% at September 30, 2009 11 Table of Contents and has shown steady improvements since that date through December 31, 2010 as the overall trailing twelve month renewal rate was 91% at December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing to identify and sell to additional subscribers, expand business from our existing subscribers and experience continuing improvements in our renewal rates to pre-recession levels. Our revenues are concentrated among certain key subscribers. Our commercial real estate information services business had approximately 690 subscribers at December 31, 2010. The largest subscriber accounted for 2.5% of Reis Services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. If we were to experience a reduction or loss of business from a number of our largest subscribers, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, depending on the significance of the loss, our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. In addition, although we generally impose contractual restrictions limiting our immediate exposure to revenue reductions due to mergers and consolidations and our pricing model is based on actual and projected usage, we may be impacted by consolidation among our subscribers and potential subscribers, as a result of their reduced usage on a combined basis or greater bargaining power. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. We have competition from (i) local companies that prepare commercial real estate research with respect to their specific geographic areas and (ii) national companies that prepare national commercial real estate research. Specifically, certain of our products compete with those of CoStar (including its Property and Portfolio Research business), Real Capital Analytics, CBRE Econometric Advisors and LoopNet. Some of our competitors, either alone or with affiliated entities, may have greater access to resources than we do. Competition could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to grow revenue and increase profitability in our commercial real estate information services business. Our revenue growth slowed during the latter part of 2008 and we experienced revenue declines on a consecutive quarter basis during the first three quarters of 2009. Revenue stabilized at just over $6,000,000 for each of the first three quarters of 2010 and there was growth in the fourth quarter of 2010 to approximately $6,167,000. There can be no assurance that our revenues will grow in the future. During 2009, we were able to maintain our EBITDA (which is GAAP net income, before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) margins in the low to mid 40% range in the Reis Services business. This was achieved through cost control measures initiated in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in place throughout 2009. In 2010, our margins slipped below 40%, primarily attributable to increased spending for product development and enhancement initiatives. We may continue to incur additional expenses, such as marketing and product development expenses, with the expectation that it will result in revenue growth in the future; however, such additional expenses will likely result in reduced profitability or margins or negatively impact liquidity in the near term, and if not successful, may negatively impact margins and liquidity in the long term. In particular, during 2011, we have budgeted additional spending on our new product initiatives, including ReisReports, and this spending is expected to reduce our margins, at least in the first half of 2011. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or grow EBITDA or EBITDA margins in the future. We must continue to obtain information from multiple sources. The quality of Reis SE depends substantially on information provided by a large number of sources, including commercial real estate brokers, agents and property owners, as well as from public sources, such as tax assessors, deed reporters, planning and zoning boards, corporate websites, the business and trade press, and selected third party vendors of business information. If a significant number of these sources choose not to continue providing information to us, our product could be negatively affected, potentially resulting in an increase in subscriber cancellations and a failure to acquire new subscribers. Our revenues, expenses and operating results could be affected by general economic conditions or by changes in commercial real estate markets, which are cyclical. Our business is sensitive to trends in the general economy and trends in local, regional and national commercial real estate markets, which are unpredictable. Therefore, operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader commercial real estate industry, may be subject to significant fluctuations. A number of factors could have an effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results or cash flows, such as: • periods of economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or locally; • budgetary and financial burdens on our subscribers and potential subscribers; 12 Table of Contents • merger, acquisition, failure or government takeover of our subscribers and potential subscribers; • governmental intervention in economic policy; • inflation; • flows of capital into or out of real estate investment in the U.S. or various regions of the U.S.; • changes to the manner in which transactions are financed; • changes in the risk profile of real estate assets and collateral for financings; • changes in levels of rent or appreciation of asset values; • changing interest rates; • tax and accounting policies; • the cost of capital; • costs of construction; • increased unemployment; • lower consumer confidence; • lower wage and salary levels; • war, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; or • the public perception that any of these conditions may occur. If our subscribers choose not to use Reis SE because of any of these factors, and we are not successful in attracting new subscribers, our revenues, expenses, operating results, cash flows or stock price could be negatively affected. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new or upgraded services or products. To continue to attract new subscribers, we may need to introduce new products or services. We may choose to develop new products and services independently or to license or otherwise integrate content and data from third parties. The introduction of new products and services could impose costs on our business and require the use of resources, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to access new content and technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If subscribers or potential subscribers do not recognize the value of our new services or enhancements to existing services, operating results could be negatively affected. We may incur significant costs and experience difficulties in developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products. Efforts to enhance and improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing and newly developed products and services have inherent risks, and we may not be able to manage these product developments and enhancements successfully or in a cost effective manner. If we are unable to continue to develop new or upgraded services or products, then subscribers may choose not to use our products and services. Our growth would be negatively impacted if we were unable to successfully market and sell any new services or upgrades. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if subscribers are reluctant to use products because of privacy concerns, we might experience a loss in profitability. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of use on our web sites, as part of our subscriber registration process, we collect and use personally identifiable information. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our web sites, including theft, alteration, deletion or misappropriation of information, security breaches, computer hackers, viruses (or anything else that may contaminate or cause destruction to our systems), or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or 13 Table of Contents our web sites to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. Under the laws of certain jurisdictions, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal subscriber data has been stolen, we may be required to inform any subscribers whose data was stolen and we may be subjected to liability, which could harm our reputation and business. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to maintain the integrity and reliability of our data and forecasts. Our success depends on our subscribers’ confidence in the comprehensiveness, accuracy, and reliability of the data and forecasts we provide. We believe that we take adequate precautions to safeguard the completeness and accuracy of our data and that the information is generally current, comprehensive and accurate. Nevertheless, we depend to a large degree on information provided to us on a voluntary basis by third parties, including commercial real estate brokers, agents and property owners. Further, data is susceptible to electronic malfeasance including theft, alteration, deletion, viruses and computer hackers. In addition, our reports and conference calls for subscribers may contain forecasts with respect to real estate trends. Although our contracts contain language limiting our liability if any of our data or forecasts are inaccurate or are later not borne out by actual results, for any of the above reasons, demand for our services could diminish and we may be exposed to lawsuits claiming damages resulting from inaccurate data and forecasts. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership or use of intellectual property. Our business depends in large measure on the intellectual property utilized in our methodologies, software and database. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, registered domain names, contracts which include non-disclosure provisions, work-for-hire provisions, and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. However, we do not hold Federal registrations covering all of our trademarks and copyrightable materials. We also do not own any patents or patent applications. Our business could be significantly harmed if we do not continue to protect our intellectual property. The same would be true if claims are made against us alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle, and could require substantial amounts of time and expenditures. If our web sites or other services experience system failures or malicious attacks, our subscribers may be dissatisfied and our operations could be impaired. Our business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our web sites. Problems with the web sites could result in reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, the software underlying our services is complex and may contain undetected errors. Despite testing, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in our software. Any errors could result in adverse publicity, impaired use of our services, loss of revenues, cost increases or legal claims by subscribers. Additionally, our services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. Interruptions in service could result from the failure of data providers, telecommunications providers, or other third parties, including due to the actions of computer hackers. We depend on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our internal network infrastructure could be disrupted or penetrated, which could materially impact both our ability to provide services and subscribers’ confidence in our services. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are redundant and independent systems in separate locations. While we believe that our systems are adequate to support our operations, our systems may be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, computer viruses, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, acts of war, and other similarly damaging events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, floods, and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, any damage or disruption could materially impair or block our ability to provide services, which could significantly impact our business. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Although we have not experienced any security breaches to date and we maintain a firewall, a hacker who penetrates network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to further expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or anything else manifesting contaminating or destructive properties could expose us to litigation or to a material 14 Table of Contents risk of loss. Any of these incidents could materially impact our ability to provide services as well as materially impact the confidence of our subscribers in our services, either of which could significantly and adversely impact our business. We may be subject to regulation of advertising and subscriber solicitation or other newly-adopted laws and regulations. As part of our subscriber registration process, our subscribers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. In addition, we use email and other online marketing techniques to reach potential subscribers for our ReisReports product. We may be subject to restrictions on our ability to communicate through email and phone calls, even with existing subscribers. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or spam. These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations. In addition, laws or regulations that could harm our business could be adopted, or reinterpreted so as to affect our activities, by Federal and state governments, regulatory agencies or by foreign governments or agencies. This could include, for example, laws regulating the source, content or form of information provided on our web sites, the information or services we provide or our transmissions over the Internet. Violations or new interpretations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, or damage our reputation, or could increase our costs or make our services less attractive. Our revenue, expenses, operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations. Our revenues, expenses, operating results and cash flows have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could negatively affect our results of operations during that period and future periods. Our revenues, expenses, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors including, among others, those described below: • obtaining new subscribers and retaining existing subscribers; • changes in our marketing or other corporate strategies; • our introduction of new products and services or changes to existing products and services; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies; and • other factors outside of our control. We may be subject to tax audits or other procedures concerning our tax collection policies. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in states other than New York. However, one or more states (other than New York) may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, such as Reis, which engage in online commerce. A successful assertion that we should collect sales, use or other taxes on the sale of product or services into these states could subject us to liability for current or past taxes due, and could increase the effective price of our products and services, which could harm our business. If we are not able to successfully identify or integrate future acquisitions, our business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and future acquisitions may divert management’s attention and consume significant resources. We may in the future attempt to further expand our markets and services in part through acquisitions of other complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that future acquisitions, if any, will be successful. The successful execution of any future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions, to the extent that the Company requires cash in excess of amounts it may then have on its balance sheet at that time. Any such acquired businesses would generally be subject to the risks described under “Risk Factors Relating to Our Commercial Real Estate Information Services Business” in this section. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by incurring additional debt, our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely impacted. If we finance or otherwise complete acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders’ ownership may be diluted. 15 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Our Residential Development Activities Our remaining real estate asset may continue to decline in value, or we may not realize its value. The value of our East Lyme project is subject to uncertainty, some of which is inherent to the real estate industry generally and some of which is specific to that property. We recorded aggregate impairment charges of approximately $9,708,000 in December 2008 with respect to certain of the historic Wellsford real estate assets, with $6,999,000 of that attributable to East Lyme. We cannot assure you that we will realize the current recorded value, or any value, on sale of this asset. In addition, continuing ownership of this asset, as well as negotiations regarding a potential sale of the asset, consume valuable management time. The market for bulk sales of residential development projects remains challenging, especially as potential buyers continue to experience difficulty in borrowing. A failure to sell this project and/or other factors could cause further impairment charges to be recorded. Some of the factors impacting the current and future value of the project and potentially having an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, include: • economic conditions; • the ability of potential buyers to acquire debt or other financing, and increases in interest rates; • supply and demand of similar and/or competing developments near the project; • a loss for which we have not purchased adequate insurance; • increased costs relating to holding the property and potentially the inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage; and • the cost of complying with current and future environmental, zoning, and other laws. We may be exposed to risks associated with the development, construction and sale of residential units, and the ownership of real property generally. Reis may be exposed to various claims associated with the development, construction and sale of condominium units, single family homes or lots. Claims related to environmental remediation, dissatisfaction by homeowners and homeowners’ associations with the construction of condominiums, homes and amenities by us and/or our developer partners in any condominium or subdivision development, or other matters, may result in litigation costs, remediation costs, warranty expenses or settlement costs which could be material to Reis’s results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of public health and the environment. These laws may impose liability on property owners or operators for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on real property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, such substances may adversely affect the value of a property, as well as our ability to sell the property, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Costs associated with the foregoing could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. Environmental claims are generally not covered by our insurance programs. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. The one environmental condition affecting our properties of which we are aware relates to a portion of the East Lyme project. This land requires remediation of pesticides used on the property when it was an apple orchard at a cost of approximately $1,000,000. Remediation costs were considered in the value of the property and are recognized as a liability at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 Table of Contents 