ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks along with the other information contained in this report. The following risks could materially adversely affect our business and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock. Other risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently do not recognize as material also could materially adversely affect our business and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Restatement and Other Accounting Issues We have identified various material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which have materially adversely affected our ability to timely and accurately report our results of operations and financial condition. These material weaknesses have not been fully remediated as of the filing date of this report. As a result of the circumstances which gave rise to the Restatement, we have concluded that, as of October 31, 2010, we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and that, as a result, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective at such date. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are in the process of implementing efforts to remediate the identified material weaknesses. Our efforts have been and will continue to be time consuming and expensive. We cannot give any assurance as to when we will complete our efforts to fully remediate these material weaknesses. Any failure to effectively implement our remediation plan, or any difficulties we encounter during implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in a future restatement of our financial statements, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. The Restatement and related investigations have been time consuming and expensive and have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have devoted substantial resources to the completion of the Restatement. As a result of these efforts, as of January 27, 2013, we have incurred approximately $137 million in fees and expenses, primarily for additional audit, financial, legal consulting and related costs. We expect to continue to incur significant additional fees and expenses until we are in compliance with our SEC reporting requirements and have remediated the existing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These costs, as well as the substantial management time devoted to address these issues, have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we recently settled an ongoing investigation by the SEC, we may be the subject of litigation relating to the Restatement, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As previously reported, the Company was the subject of a non-public investigation by the SEC related to the Company’s accounting practices that led to the restatement. In November 2010, the Company issued a press release and Form 8-K disclosing the existence of the SEC investigation. The Company cooperated with the SEC in its ongoing investigation and engaged in discussions toward a resolution of the SEC’s concerns. On January 10, 2013, the SEC filed a settled enforcement action against the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, relating to the accounting 10 Table of Contents practices subject to its investigation. Without admitting or denying the allegations of the Complaint, the Company consented to the issuance of a final judgment enjoining the Company from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and SEC Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-11. The settled action did not require the payment of any monetary penalty and sought no relief beyond the entry of a permanent injunction. The SEC’s litigation release on the matter noted the Company’s cooperation with its investigation and the Company’s remedial measures, which are described in Item 9A of this report. The settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on January 18, 2013. Although the Company has settled this matter with the SEC, additional regulatory inquiries may also be commenced. In addition, we may in the future be subject to additional litigation by investors, employees, or other parties, or other proceedings or actions arising in relation to the restatement of our historical interim financial statements or the accounting matters that were addressed in the SEC investigation or related matters. Litigation and any regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal or regulatory proceeding or action, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, legal proceedings may result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of time and attention by our management. Our insurance coverage may not fully cover any costs and expenses related to this potential litigation. In addition, we indemnify our officers, directors and certain employees for certain events or occurrences while the employee, officer or director is, or was, serving at our request in such capacity, as permitted under New York law. We have paid and continue to pay legal counsel fees incurred by our present and former directors, officers and employees who are involved with the SEC inquiry, the Restatement, and related review by the Board of Directors. Each of these individuals is required to repay us for such fees if he or she is ultimately found not to be entitled to indemnification. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our current and former directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. Our failure to comply timely with SEC reporting obligations may have an adverse effect on our business. As a result of our failure to comply timely with SEC reporting obligations, we are subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our common stock under federal securities laws. Until such time as we have regained compliance with our SEC reporting obligations and meet certain other conditions, we will be unable to use shorter and less costly filings, such as Registration Statements on Form S-3 and Form S-8. Being required to use the Registration Statement Form S-1 is likely to be more costly and time-consuming. These restrictions may reduce our access to capital markets, which may adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to the Economy and our Industry Our business is adversely affected by current economic and other business conditions. The world economy has been experiencing a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. In the past our business has suffered during such downturns, and our business has similarly suffered during the recent downturn. A weakened economy in which unemployment levels are relatively high may result in decreased demand for temporary and permanent personnel, which adversely impacts our Staffing Services segment. When economic activity slows, many of our customers reduce their use of contingent workers before undertaking layoffs of their own employees, resulting in decreased demand for contingent workers. Decreased demand and higher unemployment levels result in lower levels of pay rate increases and increased pressure on our markup of staffing service rates and direct margins. Since employees are also reluctant to risk changing employers, there are fewer 11 Table of Contents openings available and, therefore, reduced activity in permanent placements. In recent years, many of our customers have significantly reduced their workforce, including their use of contingent labor. The continuation of the current business climate is likely to continue to adversely affect our business. In all of our business segments, we have experienced competition and pressure on price, margins and markups for renewals of customers’ contracts than previously obtained. In addition, some customers and large vendors have sought to impose more onerous contractual terms on us. While we have taken, and will continue to take, action to meet competition in our highly competitive markets and negotiate reasonable contracts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so without impacting revenue or margins. While we attempt to manage our costs in relation to our business volumes, these efforts may not be successful, and the timing of these efforts and associated earnings charges may adversely affect our business. Our Staffing Services segment is in a very competitive industry with few significant barriers to entry. Our Staffing Services segment is in a very competitive industry with few significant barriers to entry. The worldwide contingent staffing industry is also highly fragmented. In the United States, approximately 100 competitors operate nationally and approximately 6,000 smaller companies compete in varying degrees at local levels, many of which have just one or a few offices that only service a small market. Some of our principal competitors in this segment are larger and have greater financial resources than us and service multi-national accounts, which is business we also solicit. These competitors may be better able than we are to attract and retain qualified personnel, to offer more favorable pricing and terms, and otherwise attract and retain the business that we seek. In addition, some of the segment’s customers, generally larger companies, are mandated or otherwise motivated to utilize the services of small or minority-owned companies rather than publicly held corporations, such as Volt, and have redirected substantial amounts of their staffing business to those companies. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective customers may decide to provide similar services internally. There has been a significant increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or a small number of providers. This trend to consolidate purchases has, in some cases, made it more difficult for us to obtain or retain customers. Additionally, pricing pressures have intensified as customers have continued to competitively bid new contracts. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter increased competition and lower margins in the future. One of the effects of the increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing service purchases is an increase in the use of managed service providers. Managed service providers coordinate the provision of temporary services to their customers using internet-enabled applications (often supplied by others) that act as a mechanism for businesses to manage and procure contingent and other staffing services. However, some of these managed service providers assume all payment obligations to their customers’ suppliers, such as Volt. These managed service providers may present greater credit risks than the end-customer and some of these customers have in the past, and could in the future, default on their obligations to us, adversely impacting our business. The bidding process for these national contracts is very competitive. Our Staffing Services segment has been successful in obtaining a number of large national contracts that typically require on-site Volt representation and fulfillment at multiple customer facilities. Many contracts are for a one-to-three year time period, at which time they typically are re-bid. Others are for shorter periods or may be for the duration of a particular project or need that has arisen, which requires additional or substitute personnel. Many of these contracts require considerable start-up costs and may take an extended amount of time to reach anticipated revenue levels that are dependent on the customer’s actual requirements at that time. It also takes an extended period of time to recover these start-up costs. Our Staffing Services segment maintains a group dedicated to the acquisition, implementation and service of national accounts; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain accounts that we currently serve, or that we can obtain additional accounts on satisfactory terms. 12 Table of Contents Off-shoring by companies to which we supply temporary employees adversely affects our revenue. In recent years, United States companies, some of which are customers of Volt, increasingly have outsourced manufacturing and service operations to foreign countries with lower labor rates, less costly employee benefit requirements and fewer regulations than in the United States. This outsourcing reduces their need for temporary and permanent workers in the United States. We continue to expand our global pool of resources to offer greater support to the service sector of the economy and other businesses that have more difficulty in moving operations to foreign countries, as well as expanding our regional and local customer base that generally affords higher margin opportunities. We may not be successful in these efforts. In addition, we have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected if we compete from our United States-based operations against competitors based in lower-cost countries. Although we have expanded our operations in a few foreign countries to serve existing customers, and have established subsidiaries in some foreign countries, there can be no assurance that this effort will be successful or that we can successfully compete with competitors based overseas or who have more well-established foreign operations. Our international expansion further subjects us to additional risks and challenges caused by the effect of foreign laws and regulations that could harm our business and profitability, as well as exposure from the risk of currency fluctuation as the values of foreign currencies fluctuates against the dollar. Risks Related to our Capital Structure and Finances Our credit agreement contains restrictive covenants. Our credit facility requires us to maintain minimum unrestricted cash or availability under our accounts receivable securitization program of $15,000,000. Our existing credit facility includes restrictive covenants which limit our ability to, among other things, change our lines of business and engage in consolidations, mergers, liquidations, or dissolutions. These covenants could limit our ability to react to market conditions or to otherwise engage in transactions that might be considered beneficial to us. Risks Related to our Particular Customers and the Projects on which We Work Our project related businesses are subject to project delays, unanticipated costs and cancellations that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In all of our business segments, we, in some circumstances, guarantee certain results of a project, such as project completion by a scheduled date, the achievement of certain acceptance, performance testing levels, results and other performance requirements. Failure to meet those criteria could result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, which could exceed our projected profit. Many projects involve engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. We may encounter difficulties in designing or engineering, delays in receiving designs or materials provided by our customers or a third-parties, delays in equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customers’ failure to timely obtain rights required to perform or complete a project, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could impact our ability to complete projects in accordance with the original delivery schedules. In addition, we may contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. Any delay or failure by subcontractors in the satisfactory completion of their portion of projects may result in delays in the overall progress of projects or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. Delays and additional costs may be substantial, we may not be able to recover all of these costs and our revenues and operating profits could be significantly reduced. We also may be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns. Delays or cancellations also may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. At times, project contracts may require customers or other parties to provide the specifications, design, engineering information, equipment or materials to be used on a project. In some cases, the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials may be deficient or delivered later than required by 13 Table of Contents the project schedule. In addition, our customers may change or delay various elements of a project after commencement, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. Under these circumstances, we generally attempt to negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. We are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering or design drawings, specifications, or materials required to be provided by the customer. Litigation, arbitration or mediation of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Delays and additional costs may be substantial, we may not be able to recover all of these costs and our revenues and operating profits could be significantly reduced. We also may be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns. Delays or cancellations also may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts. Many of our contracts either provide no minimum purchase requirements, are cancellable during the term, or both. In our Staffing Services segment, most contracts are not sole source, and many of our contracts, even those with multi-year terms, provide no assurance of any minimum amount of revenue. Under many of these contracts we still must compete for each individual placement or project. Similarly, in our Telecommunications segment many master contracts require competition in order to obtain each individual work project. In addition, many of our long-term contracts contain cancellation provisions under which the customer can cancel the contract at any time or on relatively short notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. Therefore, these contracts do not provide the assurances that typical long-term contracts often provide and are inherently uncertain with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. Additionally, in all our business segments, the degree and timing of customer acceptance of systems and of obtaining new contracts and the rate of renewals of existing contracts, as well as customers’ utilization of our services, could adversely affect our financial statements with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts. Our Computer Systems segment is highly dependent on our customers’ call volume. The results of our Computer Systems segment are highly dependent on the volume of directory assistance calls to this segment’s customers that are processed by the segment under existing contracts, the segment’s ability to continue to secure comprehensive listings from others at acceptable pricing, and our continued ability to sell products and services to new and existing customers. The volume of transactions with this segment’s customers and the revenues received by us has been, and may continue to be, reduced as consumers utilize free listings offered by alternative sources, including listings available on the internet, and from consolidation in the telecommunications industry. Revenue earned under many of our contracts in this segment is variable based on the volumes processed, while our costs of meeting the contractual service levels are not. Decreases in volumes that we are not able to offset with lowered costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We rely extensively on our information technology systems and are vulnerable to damage and interruption. We rely on our information technology systems and infrastructure to process transactions, summarize results, and manage our business, including maintaining client information. Our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to outages and deliberate intrusion. Likewise, data security incidents and breaches by employees and others with or without permitted access to our systems pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Additionally, we utilize third parties, including cloud providers, to store, transfer and process data. While we have taken measures to protect our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent outages or security breaches in our systems that 14 Table of Contents could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our business reputation. Disclosure of sensitive information could subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal, consumer and customer data, resulting in penalties, fines, increased costs or loss of revenue. Our business may be negatively affected if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology. We must obtain or produce products and systems, principally in the information technology environment, to satisfy customer requirements and to remain competitive. To do so, we must make significant investments to deploy, maintain and upgrade advanced computer software and purchase substantial amounts of computer equipment. These investments, beyond requiring significant capital, also entail large technological obsolescence risk and require specialized talent to operate. There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to foresee changes and to identify, develop and commercialize innovative and competitive products, systems and services in a timely and cost effective manner and to achieve customer acceptance of our products, systems and services in markets characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions. The loss of any key customers would adversely impact our business. We historically have derived significant revenue from large corporate customers. The Company had no single customer that accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net revenue in the fiscal years 2009 and 2010. In fiscal year 2008, a single customer accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated net revenue. Our top 10 clients represented approximately 30%, 40% and 46% of our fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 revenue, respectively. The loss of one or more of these customers, or material changes in their demand for our products and services, could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our operations are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management. In addition, we are dependent on the performance and productivity of our local managers and field personnel. Our ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of those key personnel and members of management with significant experience in our industry may cause a significant disruption to our business. Moreover, the loss of key managers and field personnel may jeopardize existing client relationships with businesses that continue to use our services based upon relationships with these managers and field personnel. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain technologically qualified personnel. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain technologically qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of research and development, implementation and upgrading of internal systems, as well as for temporary assignments to customers of our Staffing Services segment. The availability of such personnel is dependent upon a number of economic and demographic conditions. We may in the future find it difficult or more costly to hire such personnel in the face of competition from other companies. In addition, while in many fields there are ample applicants for available positions, variations in the rate of unemployment and higher wages sought by temporary workers in certain technical fields that continue to experience labor shortages could affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands in these fields and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Legal Compliance and Litigation We are subject to employment–related and other claims and losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Staffing Services segment employs or engages individuals on a temporary basis and places them in a customer’s workplace. Our ability to control the customer’s workplace is limited, and we risk incurring liability to our employees for injury (which can result in increased workers’ compensation costs) or other harm that they 15 Table of Contents suffer at the customer’s workplace. Increases in workers’ compensation costs can adversely affect our competitive position and our ability to retain business and obtain new business. Other risks specifically related to our Staffing Services segment include: • claims that we have violated wage and hour requirements that govern the relationship between employers and employees; • claims of discrimination or harassment by us or our customers; • claims for retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; • claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees; • claims related to the employment of undocumented or unlicensed personnel; • claims related to workers’ compensation, general liability, automobile liability and employee group health insurance; • errors and omissions by our employees and contingent workers, particularly in the case of professionals; • claims related to our employees’ misuse of customers’ proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts or other similar claims; and • claims relating to the misclassification of independent contractors. Additionally, we risk liability to our customers for the actions or inactions of our employees that may result in harm to our customers. Such actions may be the result of negligence or misconduct on the part of our employees, damage to customer facilities due to negligence, criminal activity and other similar claims. In many cases, we must indemnify our customers for the acts of our employees, and certain customers have negotiated increases in the scope of such indemnification agreements. We also may incur fines, penalties and other losses that are not covered by insurance or negative publicity with respect to these matters. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. These same factors apply to all of our business units, although the risk may be reduced where we control the employees and/or the workplace. We are subject to expenses and losses relating to legal proceedings. From time to time we are subject to legal proceedings, as well as claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, a liability and an expense are recorded for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination of whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, a reassessment is performed of the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Potential legal liabilities and the revision of estimates of potential legal liabilities as well as the legal expenses of such matters could have a material adverse impact on our business. New and increased government regulation, employment costs or taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, especially for our contingent staffing business. Certain of our businesses are subject to licensing and regulation in some states and most foreign jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to comply with these requirements, or that the cost of compliance will not become material. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which we do or intend to do business may: • create new or additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of services that we currently provide; • impose new or additional employment costs that we may not be able to be pass on to customers or that would cause customers to reduce their use of our services, especially in our Staffing Services segment, which would adversely impact our business; 16 Table of Contents • require us to obtain additional licenses; and • increase taxes (especially payroll and other employment-related taxes) or enact new or different taxes payable by the providers or users of services such as those offered by us, thereby increasing our costs, some of which we may not be able to be pass on to customers or which would cause customers to reduce their use of our services especially in our Staffing Services segment, which would adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In some of our foreign markets, temporary services are more heavily regulated than in the United States. Litigation and regulatory activity (in the European Union and certain countries) is being directed at the way the staffing industry generally does business. In addition to imposing additional requirements and costs, this regulatory activity could cause changes in customers’ attitudes regarding the use of outsourcing and temporary personnel in general, which could have an adverse effect on our contingent staffing business. Insurance has limits and exclusions and we retain risk. We maintain insurance policies for various exposures including, but not limited to, general liability, auto liability, workers compensation and employer’s liability, directors’ and officers’ insurance, professional liability, employment practices, loss to real and personal property, business interruption, fiduciary and other management liability. Insurance products are purchased both as required by law and to minimize the risk that unknown events have a material impact on our operations. However, insurance has limitations in that certain events may not be covered (either uninsurable, subject to high deductibles or exceeding the limits purchased). Even when appropriate insurance is purchased, certain events may have a material impact of a nature that cannot be fully compensated through insurance. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and is not listed on any other national securities exchange. Trading in the Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) was suspended on January 26, 2011. The Company’s common stock was delisted from the NYSE on May 30, 2011. On January 27, 2011, the Company’s common stock began trading under the symbol “VISI” through the facilities of the OTC Markets Group, Inc. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange or that the stock will continue being traded on the OTC marketplace. The trading of our common stock on the OTC marketplace rather than the NYSE may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Risks of trading in an over-the-counter market. Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange due to factors such as the reduced number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the reduced number of market makers in the securities, and the reduced number of securities analysts that follow such securities. As a result, holders of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors, parties with whom we have business relationships or third parties. The lack of liquidity in our common stock may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. 17 Table of Contents Our stock price could be volatile and, as a result, investors may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. Our stock price has in the past, and could in the future, fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including those factors previously discussed and the following, many of which are beyond our control: • the restatement of our financial statements; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • our failure to meet the expectations of the investment community and changes in investment community view points or estimates of our future results of operations; • industry trends and the business success of our customers; • loss of one or more key customers; • strategic moves by our competitors, such as product or service announcements or acquisitions; • regulatory developments; • litigation; • general economic conditions, such as the current recession; • general market conditions; and • other domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market has experienced, and may in the future experience, volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our principal shareholders own a significant percentage of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over Volt. Their interests may differ from those of other shareholders. As of February 28, 2013, our principal shareholders, who are related family members, controlled approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these shareholders, if they vote in the same manner, would effectively be able to control the composition of our board of directors and many other matters requiring shareholder approval and would continue to have significant influence over our affairs, and the interests of our principal shareholders may not align with those of our other shareholders. Furthermore, the provisions of the New York Business Corporation Law, to which we are subject, requires the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of all of our outstanding shares entitled to vote in order to adopt a plan of merger or consolidation between us and another entity and to approve a sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of our assets not made in our usual and regular course of business. Accordingly, our principal shareholders, acting alone, could prevent the approval of such transactions even if such transactions are in the best interests of our other shareholders. New York law and our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could make the takeover of Volt more difficult. Certain provisions of New York law and our articles of incorporation and by-laws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring Volt, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws include: • providing for a classified board of directors with directors having staggered, two-year terms; • permitting removal of directors only for cause; • providing that vacancies on the board of directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office; and • requiring advance notice for shareholder proposals and director nominees. In addition to the voting power of our principal shareholders discussed above, our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with a potential acquirer that it did not believe was in our strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire Volt or prevented from successfully completing an acquisition by these or other measures, our shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a more favorable price. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 