ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the Company’s business activities. Other risks are 10 Table of Contents described in “Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. If any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations and impair Pioneer’s ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. In that case, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline. Commodity prices. The Company’s revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on oil and gas prices, which are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control. Historically, oil and gas prices have been very volatile. A significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the Company’s oil and gas properties and goodwill and the recognition of deferred tax asset valuation allowances or an increase to the Company’s deferred tax asset valuation allowances, depending on the Company’s tax attributes in each country in which it has activities. Pioneer makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the Company’s operating expenses, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, is largely fixed in nature. Accordingly, if commodity prices are below expectations, Pioneer’s financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. Drilling activities. Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The Company’s future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. The Company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2006 even though less than 20 percent of the Company’s 2006 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk exploratory projects. Increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to reduced availability, extended delivery times and increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. The Company expects that these trends will continue in the foreseeable future and, if so, will impact the Company’s profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. Unproved properties. At December 31, 2005, the Company carried unproved property costs of $313.9 million. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. These evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the Company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. Acquisitions. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the Company’s growth. The Company’s growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and the assessment of possible environmental liabilities. All of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Even though the Company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. 11 Table of Contents Divestitures. The Company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. Various factors could materially affect the ability of the Company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the Company. Operation of gas processing plants. As of December 31, 2005, the Company owned interests in 12 gas processing plants and three treating facilities. The Company operates eight of the plants and all three treating facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. For example, in May 2005, the Company’s Fain gas plant was shut in for two months due to a mechanical failure that resulted in a fire. Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. Damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. Operating hazards and uninsured losses. The Company’s operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, adverse weather effects and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. Increased hurricane activity over the past two years has resulted in production curtailments and physical damage to the Company’s Gulf of Mexico operations. Although the Company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. Environmental. The oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the Company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A variety of United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities and compliance may increase the cost of the Company’s operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. See “Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations — Environmental and health controls” above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. The Company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the Company’s future operations and financial condition. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Debt restrictions and availability. The Company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a variable rate credit facility. The terms of the Company’s borrowings under the senior notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the Company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. The Company’s ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the Company’s direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. See Note F of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the Company’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2005 and the terms associated therewith. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing is also impacted by the Company’s debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of the Company’s debt credit ratings. Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with other companies, producers and operators for acquisitions and in the exploration, development, production and marketing of oil and 12 Table of Contents gas. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. See “Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations” above for additional discussion regarding competition. Government regulation. The Company’s business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the Company’s business and operations. See “Item 1. Business — Competition, Markets and Regulations” above for additional discussion regarding government regulation. International operations. At December 31, 2005, approximately 14 percent of the Company’s proved reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the United States (ten percent in Argentina, two percent in Canada and two percent in Africa). The success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. To the extent that the Company is involved in international activities, changes in exchange rates may adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. See “Critical Accounting Estimates” included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, “Qualitative Disclosures” in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information specific to Argentina’s economic and political situation and other risks associated with the Company’s international operations. The aforementioned planned sale of Argentine assets, if completed, will significantly reduce the Company’s international operations. Estimates of reserves and future net revenues. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set forth in this Report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, • the quality and quantity of available data, • the interpretation of that data, • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies, • assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices and • assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: • the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, • the production and operating costs incurred, • the amount and timing of future development expenditures and • future oil and gas sales prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The Company’s actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. 13 Table of Contents As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: • the amount and timing of actual production, • increases or decreases in the supply or demand of oil and gas and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The Company reports all proved reserves held under production sharing arrangements and concessions utilizing the “economic interest” method, which excludes the host country’s share of proved reserves. Estimated quantities of production sharing arrangements reported under the “economic interest” method are subject to fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas prices, as well as operating and development costs, prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received. Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or Standardized Measure in this Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company’s proved reserves. Stock repurchases. During 2005, the Company repurchased 20 million shares of its common stock, and announced its intention to repurchase up to an additional $350 million of its common stock, subject to completion of the planned divestiture of its deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Argentine assets. The Board sets limits on the price per share at which Pioneer’s common stock can be repurchased, and the Company will not be permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. Additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or cancelled. As a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchases will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. Commodity hedges. To the extent that the Company engages in hedging activities to reduce commodity price risk, Pioneer may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 