Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these factors and the possible impact of these factors on future results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem to be currently immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the price of our common stock could decline and you could experience losses on your investment. If the third parties to whom we granted substantial marketing rights for certain of our existing products or future products under development are not successful in marketing those products, then our sales and financial position may suffer. Our agreements with our corporate marketing partners generally contain no or small minimum purchase requirements in order for them to maintain their exclusive or co-exclusive marketing rights. We are party to an agreement with Schering-Plough Animal Health Corporation (“SPAH”) which grants SPAH exclusive distribution and marketing rights in the U.S. for our canine heartworm preventive product, TRI-HEART Plus Chewable Tablets. Novartis Japan markets and distributes our SOLO STEP CH heartworm test in Japan under an exclusive arrangement. AgriLabs has the non-exclusive right to sell certain of our bovine vaccines in the United States, Africa and Mexico and currently generates all of our sales of those vaccines in those territories. One or more of these marketing partners may not devote sufficient resources to marketing our products. For example, on March 9, 2009, Merck & Co., Inc. (“Old Merck”) and Schering-Plough Corporation (“SGP”) announced plans to merge. SGP was the parent company of SPAH. Old Merck and sanofi-aventis (“Sanofi”) each owned 50% of Merial Limited (“Merial”), a company which sells a canine heartworm preventive (the “Existing Product”) competitive with ours. On July 30, 2009, Old Merck and Sanofi announced that they had entered into an agreement under which Old Merck was to sell its interest in Merial to Sanofi and that Sanofi was to receive a call option exercisable after the merger of Old Merck and SGP to essentially combine Merial with the animal health business of SGP (“SAH”), including SPAH, in a new joint venture company (“Newco”) equally owned by Sanofi and the company created from the merger of Old Merck and SGP. Old Merck subsequently completed its merger with SGP and the surviving parent entity was renamed Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck”). On March 9, 2010, Sanofi announced that it had exercised its option to combine Merial with SAH. In a February 9, 2011 press release, Sanofi stated the closing of the transaction to create Newco is expected in the first half of 2011 and is subject to execution of the final agreement, antitrust review in the U.S., Europe and other countries and other customary closing conditions. In its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 28, 2011, Merck stated that the closing of the transaction to create Newco is expected in the third quarter of 2011, is subject to the execution of final agreements, regulatory review in the United States, Europe and other countries and other customary closing conditions, and that its agreement with Sanofi provides if the transaction has not been completed by March 30, 2011 either party may terminate the proposed joint venture without paying a break-up fee or other penalty. Revenue from Merck entities, including SPAH, represented 13% of our 2010 revenue. If Merck, SGP, SAH, SPAH, Newco or any related entity is required to divest or cease operations related to our heartworm preventive in order to complete a merger or other combination, our sales could decline significantly and our business could be damaged. Similarly, if SPAH personnel are distracted or experience turmoil as a result of the merger between Merial and SAH, a future combination between SPAH and any other entity or for other reasons, our sales could decline significantly. Furthermore, there may be nothing to prevent these partners from pursuing alternative technologies or products that may compete with our products in current or future agreements. For example, we believe a unit of SAH has obtained FDA approval for a canine heartworm preventive product with additional claims compared with our TRI-HEART Plus Chewable Tablets. Should Merck, SGP, SAH, SPAH and/or Newco decide to emphasize sales and marketing efforts of this product and/or the Existing Product rather than our TRI-HEART Plus Chewable Tablets or cancel our agreement regarding canine heartworm preventive distribution and marketing, our sales could decline significantly. In the future, third-party marketing assistance may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to maintain our current market share or commercialize our products and our sales will decline accordingly. -12- Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully market and sell our products. We may not successfully develop and maintain marketing and/or sales capabilities, and we may not be able to make arrangements with third parties to perform these activities on satisfactory terms. If our marketing and sales strategy is unsuccessful, our ability to sell our products will be negatively impacted and our revenues will decrease. The loss of distribution rights for products or failure to gain access to new products may cause damage to our reputation and adversely affect our business and future prospects. We believe the recent worldwide economic weakness has had a negative effect on our business, and this may continue in the future. This is particularly notable in the sale of new instruments, which is a capital expenditure many, if not most, veterinarians may choose to defer in times of perceived economic weakness. Even if the overall economy begins to grow in the future, there may be a lag before veterinarians display confidence such growth will continue and return to historical capital expenditure purchasing patterns. As the vast majority of cash flow to veterinarians ultimately is funded by pet owners without private insurance or government support, our business may be more susceptible to severe economic downturns than other health care businesses which rely less on individual consumers. The market for companion animal healthcare products is highly fragmented. Because our Core Companion Animal Health proprietary products are generally available only to veterinarians or by prescription and our medical instruments require technical training to operate, we ultimately sell all our Core Companion Animal Health products to or through veterinarians. The acceptance of our products by veterinarians is critical to our success. Changes in our ability to obtain or maintain such acceptance or changes in veterinary medical practice could significantly decrease our anticipated sales. We currently sell and market most of our Core Companion Animal Health products in the United States to veterinarians through an outside field organization of approximately 36 individuals, an inside sales force of approximately 24 individuals, independent third-party distributors, as well as through trade shows and print advertising. To be successful in these endeavors, we will have to effectively market our products and continue to develop and train our direct sales force as well as the sales personnel of our independent third-party distributors. In January 2010, we gave notice of contract termination to most domestic independent third-party distributors who carried our full product line. Sales to distributors whose underlying contracts have been canceled since the beginning of 2009 represented 1% of our 2010 revenue. We intend to compete with these distributors primarily through direct sales efforts going forward. There can be no assurance we will be successful in competing with these or other distributors, that these distributors will not damage our business, and/or that we will not lose sales and experience damage to our financial results as a result of the termination of these agreements. We believe that one of our largest competitors, IDEXX, in effect prohibits its distributors from selling competitive products, including our diagnostic instruments and heartworm diagnostic tests, which may hinder our ability to sell and market our products if these distributors are increasingly successful. The loss of significant customers could harm our operating results. Revenue from Merck entities, including SPAH, represented approximately 13% of our total revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 11% of our revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Sales to no other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The loss of significant customers who, for example, are historically large purchasers or who are considered leaders in their field could damage our business and financial results. -13- Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could render our products obsolete or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. This would limit our ability to compete and maintain sustained profitability. The market in which we compete is intensely competitive. Our competitors include independent animal health companies and major pharmaceutical companies that have animal health divisions. We also compete with independent, third-party distributors, including distributors who sell products under their own private labels. In the point-of-care diagnostic testing market, our major competitors include IDEXX, Abaxis and Synbiotics, a company acquired by Pfizer in January 2011. The products manufactured by our OVP segment for sale by third parties compete with similar products offered by a number of other companies, some of which have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources than us and may have more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than our OVP segment’s customers. Competitors may have facilities with similar capabilities to our OVP segment, which they may operate and sell at a lower unit price to customers than our OVP segment does, which could cause us to lose customers. Companies with a significant presence in the companion animal health market, such as Bayer AG, CEVA Santé Animale, Eli Lilly and Company, Merck, Merial (a company owned by Sanofi), Novartis AG, Pfizer, Vétoquinol S.A. and Virbac S.A. may be marketing or developing products that compete with our products or would compete with them if developed. These and other competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales and service organizations than we do. Our competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we do. For example, if Pfizer is successful in integrating Synbiotics and devotes its significant commercial and financial resources to growing Synbiotics’ market share, our sales could suffer significantly. Our competitors may also develop or market technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products or that would render our technologies and products obsolete. Further, additional competition could come from new entrants to the animal health care market. Moreover, we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, sales or support capabilities to compete successfully. We believe that one of our largest competitors, IDEXX, in effect prohibits its distributors from selling competitive products, including our diagnostic instruments and heartworm diagnostic tests. Another of our competitors, Abaxis, recently launched a stand-alone canine heartworm diagnostic test competitive with ours and a heartworm diagnostic test conducted as part of a chemistry profile on its chemistry analyzer. If we fail to compete successfully, our ability to achieve sustained profitability will be limited and sustained profitability, or profitability at all, may not be possible. We rely substantially on third-party suppliers. The loss of products or delays in product availability from one or more third-party suppliers could substantially harm our business. To be successful, we must contract for the supply of, or manufacture ourselves, current and future products of appropriate quantity, quality and cost. Such products must be available on a timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers to manufacture those products we do not manufacture ourselves. Proprietary products provided by these suppliers represent a majority of our revenue. We currently rely on these suppliers for our veterinary instruments and consumable supplies for these instruments, for our point-of-care diagnostic and other tests, for the manufacture of our allergy immunotherapy treatment products as well as for the manufacture of other products. -14- Table of Contents The loss of access to products from one or more suppliers could have a significant, negative impact on our business. For example, the largest of our suppliers (the “Canceling Supplier”) in 2009 provided us with their proprietary handheld diagnostic instruments and affiliated proprietary cartridges and supplies (the “Canceled Products”). On May 1, 2009, the Canceling Supplier informed us that they were canceling our contractual agreement as of November 1, 2009. Under our agreement with the Canceling Supplier, our rights became non-exclusive upon receipt of such notice. We subsequently learned through a Form 8-K filing with the SEC that Abaxis, one of our major competitors, had signed an agreement with the Canceling Supplier to distribute certain Canceled Products into the animal health market and that such rights were to be exclusive outside of Japan on November 1, 2009. Approximately 15% of our 2009 revenue was related to the proprietary products manufactured by the Canceling Supplier. We no longer have access to the Canceled Products to sell to our installed base of customers and experienced a significant decline in revenue and gross margin in 2010 as compared to 2009 related to Canceled Products as a result. There can be no assurance we will be able to find an acceptable alternative product to the Canceled Products, that any such product could compete effectively against the Canceled Products, directly or in a niche, or that any such product will be available in a timely or economic manner. Less than 1% of our 2010 revenue was from the Canceled Products. Other major suppliers who sell us proprietary products which are responsible for more than 5% of our LTM revenue are Arkray Global Business, Inc. (“Arkray”), Boule Medical AB, FUJIFILM Corporation and Quidel Corporation. None of these suppliers sold us proprietary products which were responsible for more than 20% of 2010 revenue, although the proprietary products of two were each responsible for more than 15% of 2010 revenue and the proprietary products of one other was responsible for more than 10% of 2010 revenue. We often purchase products from our suppliers under agreements that are of limited duration or potentially can be terminated on an annual basis. In the case of our veterinary diagnostic instruments other than for lactate, we are typically entitled to non-exclusive access to consumable supplies for a defined period upon expiration of exclusive rights, which could subject us to competitive pressures in the period of non-exclusive access. Although we believe we will be able to maintain supply of our major product offerings in the near future, there can be no assurance that our suppliers will meet their obligations under any agreements we may have in place with them or that we will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on suppliers include: • The loss of product rights upon expiration or termination of an existing agreement. Unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar product, we would not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our sales and operating results would likely suffer. In the case of an instrument supplier, we could also potentially suffer the loss of sales of consumable supplies, which would be significant in cases where we have built a significant installed base, further harming our sales prospects and opportunities. The Canceling Supplier eliminating our access to the Canceled Products is an example of such a situation. Even if we were able to find an alternate supply for a product to which we lost rights, we would likely face increased competition from the product whose rights we lost being marketed by a third party or the former supplier and it may take us additional time and expense to gain the necessary approvals and launch an alternative product. • Changes in economics. An underlying change in the economics with a supplier, such as a large price increase or new requirement of large minimum purchase amounts, could have a significant, adverse affect on our business, particularly if we are unable to identify and implement an alternative source of supply in a timely manner. • Loss of exclusivity. In the case of our veterinary diagnostic instruments, if we are entitled to non-exclusive access to consumable supplies for a defined period upon expiration of exclusive rights, we may face increased competition from a third party with similar non-exclusive access or our former supplier, which could cause us to lose customers and/or significantly decrease our margins and could significantly affect our financial results. For example, a third-party has gained access to chemistry instrument test strips and supplies for our previous chemistry instrument which are manufactured by Arkray, has increased competition for these products with our customers and such competition may cause us to lose customers and/or significantly decrease our margins in the future. In addition, current agreements, or agreements we may negotiate in the future, with suppliers may require us to meet minimum annual sales levels to maintain our position as the exclusive distributor of these products. We may not meet these minimum sales levels and maintain exclusivity over the distribution and sale of these products. If we are not the exclusive distributor of these products, competition may increase significantly, reducing our revenues and/or decreasing our margins. -15- Table of Contents • High switching costs. In our diagnostic instrument products we could face significant competition and lose all or some of the consumable revenues from the installed base of those instruments if we were to switch to a competitive instrument. If we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors for certain of our regulated products, additional regulatory licenses or approvals must be obtained for these contractors prior to our use. This would require new testing and compliance inspections prior to sale thus resulting in potential delays. Any new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for the production of our products. We likely would have to train our sales force, distribution network employees and customer support organization on the new product and spend significant funds marketing the new product to our customer base. • Inability to meet minimum obligations. Current agreements, or agreements we may negotiate in the future, may commit us to certain minimum purchase or other spending obligations. It is possible we will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations, which could create a drain on our financial resources and liquidity. Some such agreements may require minimum purchases and/or sales to maintain product rights and we may be significantly harmed if we are unable to meet such requirements and lose product rights. • The involuntary or voluntary discontinuation of a product line. Unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar product in this or similar circumstances with any product, we would not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our sales would likely suffer. Even if we are able to identify an alternate supply, it may take us additional time and expense to gain the necessary approvals and launch an alternative product, especially if the product is discontinued unexpectedly. An example of such a situation arose in 2006 when Dolphin Medical Inc. (a majority-owned subsidiary of OSI Systems, Inc.) discontinued production of our VET/OX G2 DIGITAL Monitor as part of an agreement with Masimo Corporation to settle a patent dispute. • Inconsistent or inadequate quality control. We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of products we receive from our suppliers. Poor quality items could damage our reputation with our customers. • Limited capacity or ability to scale capacity. If market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current suppliers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. If we consistently generate more demand for a product than a given supplier is capable of handling, it could lead to large backorders and potentially lost sales to competitive products that are readily available. This could require us to seek or fund new sources of supply, which may be difficult to find unless it is under terms that are less advantageous. • Regulatory risk. Our manufacturing facility and those of some of our third-party suppliers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, USDA and other federal, state and foreign agencies for compliance with strictly enforced Good Manufacturing Practices, regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over our suppliers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Violations could potentially lead to interruptions in supply that could cause us to lose sales to readily available competitive products. -16- Table of Contents • Developmental delays. We may experience delays in the scale-up quantities needed for product development that could delay regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products in development, causing us to miss key opportunities. • Limited intellectual property rights. We typically do not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to the products themselves and any improvements to the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products. Potential problems with suppliers such as those discussed above could substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs, and/or damage our reputation with our customers due to factors such as poor quality goods or delays in order fulfillment, resulting in our being unable to sell our products effectively and substantially harm our business. We may not be able to continue to achieve sustained profitability or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Prior to 2005, we incurred net losses on an annual basis since our inception in 1988 and, as of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $171.8 million. We have achieved only one quarter with income before income taxes greater than $1.5 million. Accordingly, relatively small differences in our performance metrics may cause us to lose money in future periods. Our ability to continue to be profitable in future periods will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales in our Core Companion Animal Health segment, including maintaining and growing our installed base of instruments and related consumables, to maintain or increase gross margins and to limit the increase in our operating expenses to a reasonable level as well as avoid or effectively manage any unanticipated issues. We may not be able to generate, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we cannot achieve or sustain profitability for an extended period, we may not be able to fund our expected cash needs, including the repayment of debt as it comes due, or continue our operations. Our future revenues depend on successful product development, commercialization and/or market acceptance, any of which can be slower than we expect or may not occur. The product development and regulatory approval process for many of our potential products is extensive and may take substantially longer than we anticipate. Research projects may fail. New products that we may be developing for the veterinary marketplace may not perform up to our expectations. Because we have limited resources to devote to product development and commercialization, any delay in the development of one product or reallocation of resources to product development efforts that prove unsuccessful may delay or jeopardize the development of other product candidates. If we fail to successfully develop new products and bring them to market in a timely manner, our ability to generate additional revenue will decrease. Even if we are successful in the development of a product or obtain rights to a product from a third-party supplier, we may experience delays or shortfalls in commercialization and/or market acceptance of the product. For example, veterinarians may be slow to adopt a product or there may be delays in producing large volumes of a product. The former is particularly likely where there is no comparable product available or historical use of such a product. For example, while we believe our E.R.D.-HEALTHSCREEN urine tests for dogs and cats, introduced in 2002 and 2003, respectively, represented a significant scientific breakthrough in companion animal annual health examinations, these products have achieved significantly lower market acceptance than we anticipated. The ultimate adoption of a new product by veterinarians, the rate of such adoption and the extent veterinarians choose to integrate such a product into their practice are all important factors in the economic success of one of our new products and are factors that we do not control to a large extent. If our products do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, demand for our products will not develop as expected and our revenues will be lower than we anticipate. -17- Table of Contents Many of our expenses are fixed and if factors beyond our control cause our revenue to fluctuate, this fluctuation could cause greater than expected losses, cash flow and liquidity shortfalls. We believe that our future operating results will fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to a variety of factors which are generally beyond our control, including: • supply of products from third-party suppliers or termination, cancelation or expiration of such relationships, such as the recent decision by the Canceling Supplier to cancel our contractual agreement as of November 1, 2009; • competition and pricing pressures from competitive products; • the introduction of new products by our competitors or by us; • large customers failing to purchase at historical levels; • fundamental shifts in market demand; • manufacturing delays; • shipment problems; • information technology problems, which may prevent us from conducting our business effectively, or at all, and may also raise our costs; • regulatory and other delays in product development; • product recalls or other issues which may raise our costs; • changes in our reputation and/or market acceptance of our current or new products; and • changes in the mix of products sold. We have high operating expenses, including those related to personnel. Many of these expenses are fixed in the short term and may increase over the course of the coming year. If any of the factors listed above cause our revenues to decline, our operating results could be substantially harmed. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals in order to market our products may be costly and delay the marketing and sales of our products. Failure to meet all regulatory requirements could cause significant losses from effected inventory and the loss of market share. Many of the products we develop, market or manufacture may subject us to extensive regulation by one or more of the USDA, the FDA, the EPA and foreign and other regulatory authorities. These regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, advertising, promotion and sale of some of our products. Satisfaction of these requirements can take several years and time needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The decision by a regulatory authority to regulate a currently non-regulated product or product area could significantly impact our revenue and have a corresponding adverse impact on our financial performance and position while we attempt to comply with the new regulation, if such compliance is possible at all. The effect of government regulation may be to delay or to prevent marketing of our products for a considerable period of time and to impose costly procedures upon our activities. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, difficulties that could delay or prevent us from obtaining the regulatory approval or license necessary to introduce or market our products. Such delays in approval may cause us to forego a significant portion of a new product’s sales in its first year due to seasonality and advanced booking periods associated with certain products. Regulatory approval of our products may also impose limitations on the indicated or intended uses for which our products may be marketed. Difficulties in making established products to all regulatory specifications may lead to significant losses related to effected inventory as well as market share. For instance, in 2010 we discovered we had produced a significant level of cattle vaccine product in our OVP segment which conformed to regulatory -18- Table of Contents specifications for safety, potency and efficacy but not purity. We did not ship any related cattle vaccine product in the three months ended June 30, 2010 as we investigated and worked to resolve the situation. In compliance with USDA regulations we destroyed any product which did not meet regulatory specifications, and offered our customers replacement product for any product so destroyed. The net cost of destroyed product, replacement product and related reserves was $1.4 million in 2010. There can be no assurance that the ultimate cost will not exceed the level of the current reserve, that our efforts at remediation to ensure this or similar problems will not recur in the future will be successful, or that the USDA will not suspend our ability to produce these, similar or other products for an extended time at some point in the future. Among the conditions for certain regulatory approvals is the requirement that our facilities and/or the facilities of our third-party manufacturers conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices and other requirements. If any regulatory authority determines that our manufacturing facilities or those of our third-party manufacturers do not conform to appropriate manufacturing requirements, we or the manufacturers of our products may be subject to sanctions, including, but not limited to, warning letters, manufacturing suspensions, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, refusal to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the United States, refusals of regulatory authorities to grant approval or to allow us to enter into government supply contracts, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications, civil fines and criminal prosecutions. In addition, certain of our agreements may require us to pay penalties if we are unable to supply products, including for failure to maintain regulatory approvals. Any of these events, alone or in unison, could damage our business. We have historically not consistently generated positive cash flow from operations, may need additional capital and any required capital may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. If our actual performance deviates from our operating plan, we may be required to raise additional capital in the future. If necessary, we expect to raise these additional funds by the sale of equity securities or the issuance of new term debt secured by the same assets as the term loans which were fully repaid in 2010. There is no guarantee that additional capital will be available from these sources on reasonable terms, if at all, and certain of these sources may require approval by existing lenders. The public markets may be unreceptive to equity financings and we may not be able to obtain additional private equity or debt financing. Any equity financing would likely be dilutive to stockholders and additional debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants and increased interest rates that would limit our currently planned operations and strategies. Additionally, funds we expect to be available under our existing revolving line of credit may not be available and other lenders could refuse to provide us with additional debt financing. We believe the credit markets are particularly restrictive and difficult to obtain funding in versus recent history. Furthermore, even if additional capital is available, it may not be of the magnitude required to meet our needs under these or other scenarios. If additional funds are required and are not available, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern. We may face costly legal disputes, including related to our intellectual property or technology or that of our suppliers or collaborators. We may face legal disputes related to our business. Even if meritless, these disputes may require significant expenditures on our part and could entail a significant distraction to members of our management team or other key employees. We may have to use legal means to collect payment for goods shipped to third parties. For example, we are currently involved in arbitration with two of our former distributors to whom we gave notice of contract termination in January 2010 regarding matters including amounts past due, for which we have recorded no specific reserves, and counterclaims made by both former distributors. A legal dispute leading to an unfavorable ruling or settlement could have significant material adverse consequences on our business. -19- Table of Contents We may become subject to additional patent infringement claims and litigation in the United States or other countries or interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, USPTO interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are likely to be costly, time-consuming and distracting. As is typical in our industry, from time to time we and our collaborators and suppliers have received, and may in the future receive, notices from third parties claiming infringement and invitations to take licenses under third-party patents. Any legal action against us or our collaborators or suppliers may require us or our collaborators or suppliers to obtain one or more licenses in order to market or manufacture affected products or services. However, we or our collaborators or suppliers may not be able to obtain licenses for technology patented by others on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, may not be able to develop alternative approaches if unable to obtain licenses or current and future licenses may not be adequate, any of which could substantially harm our business. An example of such a situation arose in 2006 when Dolphin Medical Inc. (a majority-owned subsidiary of OSI Systems, Inc.) discontinued production of our VET/OX G2 DIGITAL Monitor as part of an agreement with Masimo Corporation to settle a patent dispute. We may also need to pursue litigation to enforce any patents issued to us or our collaborative partners, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or our collaborative partners, or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or interference proceeding will likely result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Any adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. Further, as a result of litigation or other proceedings, we may be required to seek licenses from third parties which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We often depend on third parties for products we intend to introduce in the future. If our current relationships and collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to introduce the products we intend to in the future. We are often dependent on third parties and collaborative partners to successfully and timely perform research and development activities to successfully develop new products. For example, we jointly developed point-of-care diagnostic products with Quidel Corporation. In other cases, we have discussed Heska marketing in the veterinary market an instrument being developed by a third party for use in the human health care market. In the future, one or more of these third parties or collaborative partners may not complete research and development activities in a timely fashion, or at all. Even if these third parties are successful in their research and development activities, we may not be able to come to an economic agreement with them. If these third parties or collaborative partners fail to complete research and development activities, fail to complete them in a timely fashion, or if we are unable to negotiate economic agreements with such third parties or collaborative partners, our ability to introduce new products will be impacted negatively and our revenues may decline. -20- Table of Contents Our Public Common Stock has certain transfer restrictions which could reduce trading liquidity from what it otherwise would have been and have other undesired affects. Our recently completed 1-for-10 reverse stock split could also reduce liquidity in our stock. In addition, our stock price has historically experienced high volatility, and could do so in the future. On May 4, 2010, our shareholders approved an amendment (the “Amendment”) to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The Amendment places restrictions on the transfer of our stock that could adversely affect our ability to use our domestic net operating loss carryforward (“NOL”). In particular, the Amendment prevents the transfer of shares without the approval of our Board of Directors if, as a consequence, an individual, entity or groups of individuals or entities would become a 5-percent holder under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the related Treasury regulations, and also prevents any existing 5-percent holder from increasing his or her ownership position in the Company without the approval of our Board of Directors. This may cause certain individuals or entities who may have otherwise been willing and able to bid on our stock to not do so, reducing the class of potential acquirers and trading liquidity from what it otherwise might have been. The Amendment could also have an adverse impact on the value of our stock if certain buyers who would otherwise have purchased our stock, including buyers who may not be comfortable owning stock with transfer restrictions, do not purchase our stock as a result of the Amendment. In addition, because some corporate takeovers occur through the acquirer’s purchase, in the public market or otherwise, of sufficient shares to give it control of a company, any provision that restricts the transfer of shares can have the effect of preventing a takeover. The Amendment could discourage or otherwise prevent accumulations of substantial blocks of shares in which our common stockholders might receive a substantial premium above market value and might tend to insulate management and the Board of Directors against the possibility of removal to a greater degree than had the Amendment not passed. We completed a 1-for-10 reverse stock split effective December 30, 2010. The liquidity of our Public Common Stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares resulting from the reverse stock split. Our reverse stock split may have left certain stockholders with one or more “odd lots”, which are stock holdings in fewer than 100 shares of Public Common Stock. These odd lots may be more difficult to sell and may incur higher brokerage commissions when sold than shares of our Public Common Stock in multiples of 100, reducing liquidity. Furthermore, due to the increased price per share following our 1-for-10 reverse stock split, certain smaller investors may be unwilling or unable to purchase shares of our Public Common Stock, also reducing liquidity. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities of many microcap and smallcap companies have in the past been, and can in the future be expected to be, especially volatile. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, our closing stock price has ranged from a low of $3.90 to a high of $9.70 when adjusted for our December 30, 2010 reverse stock split . Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our common stock include: • stock sales by large stockholders or by insiders; • changes in the outlook for our business, including any changes in our earnings guidance; • our quarterly operating results, including as compared to our revenue, earnings or other guidance and in comparison to historical results; • termination, cancellation or expiration of our third-party supplier relationships; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or by us; • litigation; • regulatory developments, including delays in product introductions; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • availability of our revolving line of credit and compliance with debt covenants; • releases of reports by securities analysts; • economic and other external factors; and • general market conditions. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. If a securities class action suit is filed against us, it is likely we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. -21- Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain various financial and other covenants required by our credit facility agreement we will be unable to borrow any funds under the agreement and fund our operations. Under our credit and security agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (“Wells Fargo”), we are required to comply with various financial and non-financial covenants in order to borrow under the agreement. The availability of borrowings under this agreement is essential to continue to fund our operations. Among the financial covenants is a requirement to maintain minimum liquidity (cash plus excess borrowing base) of $1.5 million. Additional requirements include covenants for minimum capital monthly and minimum net income quarterly. Although we believe we will be able to maintain compliance with all these covenants and any covenants we may negotiate in the future, there can be no assurance thereof. We have not always been able to maintain compliance with all covenants under our credit and security agreement with Wells Fargo in the past. Although Wells Fargo granted us a waiver of non-compliance in each case, there can be no assurance we will be able to obtain similar waivers or other modifications if needed in the future on economic terms, if at all. Failure to comply with any of the covenants, representations or warranties, or failure to modify them to allow future compliance, could result in our being in default and could cause all outstanding borrowings under our credit and security agreement to become immediately due and payable, or impact our ability to borrow under the agreement. In addition, Wells Fargo has discretion in setting the advance rates which we may borrow against eligible assets. We intend to rely on available borrowings under the credit and security agreement to fund our operations in the future. If we are unable to borrow funds under this agreement, we will need to raise additional capital from other sources to continue our operations, which capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our Public Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and we may not be able to maintain that listing, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our Public Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Nasdaq has several quantitative and qualitative requirements companies must comply with to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 minimum bid price. We completed a 1-for-10 reverse stock split effective December 30, 2010 in order to resolve an ongoing minimum bid price deficiency. While we believe we are currently in compliance with all Nasdaq requirements, there can be no assurance we will continue to meet Nasdaq listing requirements including the minimum bid price, that Nasdaq will interpret these requirements in the same manner we do if we believe we meet the requirements, or that Nasdaq will not change such requirements or add new requirements to include requirements we do not meet in the future. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock may be considered a penny stock under the regulations of the SEC and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit market liquidity of the common stock and any stockholder’s ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. This lack of liquidity would also likely make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. Interpretation of existing legislation, regulations and rules or implementation of future legislation, regulations and rules could cause our costs to increase or could harm us in other ways. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) has increased our required administrative actions and expenses as a public company since its enactment. The general and administrative costs of complying with Sarbanes-Oxley will depend on how it is interpreted over time. Of particular concern are the level of standards for internal control evaluation and reporting adopted under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. If our regulators and/or auditors adopt or interpret more stringent standards than we anticipate, we and/or our auditors may be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are designed and operating effectively, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our financial statements. Even if we and our auditors are able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are designed and operating effectively in such a circumstance, our general and administrative costs are likely to increase. Similarly, we anticipate we will be required to comply with the SEC’s mandate to provide interactive data using the eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”) as an exhibit to certain SEC filings in 2011. We anticipate compliance with this mandate will require a significant time investment, which may preclude some of our employees from spending time on more productive matters. In addition, actions by other entities, such as enhanced rules to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, could also increase our general and administrative costs or have other adverse effects on us, as could further legislative, regulatory or rule-making action or more stringent interpretations of existing legislation, regulations and rules. -22- Table of Contents Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations, cause us to change our business practices or have a negative impact on us if we fail to track such changes. We prepare our financial statements in conformance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles are established by and are subject to interpretation by the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and others who interpret and create accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is made effective. Such changes may adversely affect our reported financial results, the way we conduct our business or have a negative impact on us if we fail to track such changes. For example, we have found the Financial Standards Accounting Board’s (“FASB”) recent decision to codify the accounting standards has made it more difficult to research complex accounting matters, increasing the risk we will fail to account consistent with the FASB rules in the future. We depend on key personnel for our future success. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our future success is substantially dependent on the efforts of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Although we have an employment agreement with many of these individuals, all are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or Heska may terminate employment at any time without prior notice. If we lose the services of, or fail to recruit, key personnel, the growth of our business could be substantially impaired. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our senior management or key personnel. We may face product returns and product liability litigation in excess of or not covered by our insurance coverage or indemnities and/or warranties from our suppliers. If we become subject to product liability claims resulting from defects in our products, we may fail to achieve market acceptance of our products and our sales could substantially decline. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of our current products as well as those currently under development entail an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Following the introduction of a product, adverse side effects may be discovered. Adverse publicity regarding such effects could affect sales of our other products for an indeterminate time period. To date, we have not experienced any material product liability claims, but any claim arising in the future could substantially harm our business. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. We may not be able to continue to obtain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. In the event that we are held liable for a claim against which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the $10 million limit of our insurance coverage or which results in significant adverse publicity against us, we may lose revenue, be required to make substantial payments which could exceed our financial capacity and/or lose or fail to achieve market acceptance. We may be held liable for the release of hazardous materials, which could result in extensive clean up costs or otherwise harm our business. Certain of our products and development programs produced at our Des Moines, Iowa facility involve the controlled use of hazardous and biohazardous materials, including chemicals and infectious disease agents. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable local, state and federal regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any fines, penalties, remediation costs or other damages that result. Our liability for the release of hazardous materials could exceed our resources, which could lead to a shutdown of our operations, significant remediation costs and potential legal liability. In addition, we may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations if we choose to expand our manufacturing capacity. -23- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 