Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers should carefully consider the following factors that may affect our business, future operating results and financial condition, as well as other information included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Proposed De-Conversion and FEP Produced Fluoride Gas Business We do not have an operating history with respect to our strategy to combine de-conversion services and FEP produced fluoride gas products and this business may not succeed. We have no operating results with respect to providing de-conversion services or producing high volumes of fluoride gas products using FEP to date and, therefore, we do not have an operating history upon which you can evaluate this business or our prospects. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered in entering a new line of business. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: • construct our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant and obtain the additional financing necessary for such construction; • obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; • secure additional agreements to provide de-conversion services, on acceptable terms, pursuant to which we would obtain the depleted UF 6 necessary for de-conversion and produce depleted UF 4 for FEP operations; • produce commercially economic volumes of high purity fluoride gas using FEP; • secure customers for our fluoride gas products, on acceptable terms; • effectively manage this new business and its operations; • successfully establish and maintain our intended low-cost structure; • successfully obtain disposal services for our depleted uranium waste stream; and • successfully address the other risks described throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. If we cannot successfully manage these risks, our business and results of operations and financial condition will suffer. 9 We will need to raise additional funds to complete the construction of our de-conversion FEP facility. We need to raise approximately $125 million additional funds to complete the design, license and construction of a de-conversion facility with a production scale FEP operation. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise the additional capital required to complete the facility on acceptable terms, or at all. The recent Japan nuclear crises may adversely impact our ability to raise such additional capital. In addition, the total funds required to complete this project have been based upon early preliminary estimates and, while we believe these estimates are conservative, there can be no assurance that unforeseen expense will not be incurred and additional funding required to complete the project. Demand for nuclear power may be affected by the Japanese nuclear crises. On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced an 8.9 magnitude earthquake, followed by a related tsunami and other events. These events caused damage to nuclear power plants in Japan, leading to a nuclear crisis in the areas surrounding the affected power plants. Elevated safety concerns resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan could lead to a reduced demand for new nuclear power plants throughout the world which could adversely impact investor interest in the nuclear industry and our ability to raise additional capital to complete our planned depleted uranium de-conversion FEP facility. We may be unsuccessful in obtaining a loan from the DOE to complete construction of our de-conversion and FEP facility. We have submitted an application to the DOE Loan Guarantee Office for a loan for the construction of our de-conversion and FEP facility. The DOE loan program provides low cost loans for up to 80% of the capital cost of qualifying projects in the fields of energy and energy efficiency. There can be no guarantee that the DOE will determine our project to be a qualifying project or that the DOE will award us a loan. If the loan application is unsuccessful, we will have to raise the balance of the funds required for the planned facility through additional equity or debt financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms, or at all, if the DOE loan is not available. The market for our de-conversion services may be adversely affected if planned enrichment facilities that would create by-products suitable for our de-conversion services are not completed. We plan to build a de-conversion and FEP production plant, in part, to process the anticipated UF6 by-product from certain enrichment facilities being planned by several companies, including USEC, LES, AREVA and GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy's Global Laser Enrichment. If these anticipated enrichment facilities are not completed, we may not have sufficient demand for our de-conversion services to realize the expected economic benefit from our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant. We currently have only one contract to provide de-conversion services to an enrichment firm. We currently have only one effective de-conversion services agreement, such agreement being with LES. The agreement is conditional upon, among other things, each party obtaining necessary third party and government approvals, LES obtaining the approval of the NRC to the amendment of a provision in LES's materials license that prohibits shipments of depleted uranium to de-conversion facilities employing anhydrous hydrofluoric acid in the de-conversion process, and our meeting certain performance milestones in the construction and start-up of the planned facility. The initial term of the agreement extends for a period sufficient to cover five years of de-conversion services once our planned uranium de-conversion facility is operational, based on operations starting no later than January 1, 2014. If we cannot demonstrate certain production capacities in accordance with the agreement, LES has the option to terminate the agreement and we would have no opportunity to cure pursuant to the terms of the agreement. We need to secure additional de-conversion services agreements in order to operate our Phase I de-conversion and FEP facility at its currently planned capacity; however, there can be no assurance that additional de-conversion services agreements will be secured. Failure to meet the conditions set forth in the agreement with LES, or a failure to obtain additional off take agreements or sufficient quantities of depleted UF6 for de-conversion would have a significant and direct impact on our ability to complete the project and our ability to generate revenue from our de-conversion and FEP facility. 10 There is no history of large-scale commercial fluoride gas production utilizing FEP. We have successfully demonstrated the feasibility of using FEP to produce GeF4 and BF3. Starmet Corporation (Starmet), which was the original patent owner and developer of the FEP process, also used FEP to produce SiF 4. However, FEP has not been used for large-scale commercial production of the size and magnitude envisioned in conjunction with the de-conversion process and there may be technical issues and process challenges related to the utilization of FEP for large-scale commercial production. Unforeseen issues associated with constructing and scaling up these new FEP operations could significantly impact our proposed schedule and our overall ability to produce high-purity fluoride gas in the quantities anticipated. We cannot guarantee that we will secure customers for our fluoride gas products or that there will be a significant market for such products at the time we expect to begin our FEP operations. The successful and economical operation of the depleted UF6 de-conversion and FEP facility will require that we reach agreement with one or more commercial companies for the sale of our fluoride products. At the present time, we do not have any contracts or other commitments from customers to purchase our fluoride gas. Failure to secure such sales agreements would have a significant and direct impact on our ability to ultimately complete the project and earn revenues from fluoride gas production. Our beliefs with respect to market opportunities for fluoride gas, including information with respect to pricing, market size and growth, are based on information available to us. There can be no guarantee as to the accuracy of such information or that the information will be accurate as of the time that we have completed construction of our de-conversion and FEP facility. The size of the fluoride gas market, the price of various fluoride gases and the market acceptance of our fluoride gas products are subject to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and demand for fluoride gases at the time we begin FEP operations. Furthermore, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining market share at acceptable prices. The licensing and environmental permitting process with respect to the construction of our planned depleted UF6 de-conversion and FEP facility is ongoing and we cannot guarantee the amount of time required to obtain approval from the NRC and the State of New Mexico for operation of these facilities, or that approval will be granted at all. The timeframe discussed above in “Item 1. Business” for obtaining NRC licensing is based upon out best estimated of the time required to complete NRC Review. We have no control over the actual time required by the NRC to complete its review and the environmental review process entails a series of public meetings that could delay or disrupt the license process. Furthermore, the NRC may decline to grant the required licenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business plans. Several federal, state and local environmental permits will be required to be issued, or authorizations obtained, prior to commencement of construction and/or operations. We are at various stages of evaluating required permits and preparing application materials for the various permits, including without limitation air quality, surface and ground water quality, and waste related permits. At this point, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain all required permits, that there will not be significant permitting related delays, or that permits will be obtained with favorable permit terms. The DOE is obligated to take depleted uranium from enrichment companies. The DOE has constructed two depleted uranium de-conversion facilities. These facilities will be obligated to process depleted uranium produced from United States commercial uranium enrichment facilities. We cannot assure you that enrichment companies will not select the DOE as their de-conversion service provider. If we are unable to meet the milestones required by our de-conversion services agreement with LES and it terminates that agreement, and other enrichment companies select the DOE as their de-conversion services provider, we will not be able to realize the expected economic benefit from our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant 11 We will be handling large quantities of depleted UF6 and fluoride gases, which are radioactive and hazardous materials respectively, and are subject to intense regulation. The hazardous nature of depleted UF6 and fluoride gases affects the actions we are required to take for licensing, air permitting, environmental review, emergency response, liability insurance, personnel training, and generally increases the level of concern by the general public with respect to our handling of these materials. All of these factors complicate the licensing and operations processes and involve a host of additional regulatory factors that could affect the timeline for completing our de-conversion and FEP facility and cost estimates, and involve political pressures that could negatively influence operations. Additionally, the NRC is revising its regulations on the disposal of depleted uranium waste at Low Level Radioactive Waste (LLRW) disposal facilities that accept substantial quantities of depleted uranium. Any changes to the current regulations may result in increased disposal costs that we intend to pass through to our customers, which, depending on the significance of the increased cost, may cause potential customers to continue to store their depleted UF 6 . We will be subject to competition from the DOE and other companies. While there are no currently operating commercial depleted UF6 de-conversion facilities in the United States, there are four UF6 de-conversion facilities in the United States that de-convert enriched uranium for fuel fabrication and the DOE is currently building two de-conversion plants intending to process depleted UF 6 , including the 1.5 billion pounds of depleted UF 6 stored by the DOE. Additionally, AREVA currently operates a de-conversion plant in France, URENCO a facility in the U.K. and Rosatom has constructed a facility in Russia. There can be no guarantee that the existing UF 6 de-conversion facilities will not build additional facilities to expand their operations and compete with us in providing de-conversion services or that commercial enrichment companies will not choose to ship their depleted UF 6 overseas for processing in France, the U.K. or Russia. We currently do not hold title to the property in Lea County, New Mexico where the plant is to be constructed. The property location for our planned facility is contained in Lea County, New Mexico. Lea County has agreed to transfer the property to us under the provisions of the New Mexico Local Economic Development Act; however, the transfer will require a title insurer to evaluate and agree with the legal soundness of the transfer process. We anticipate that title to this property will be transferred to us pursuant to the New Mexico Local Economic Development Act. Until the land transfer process is completed, there can be no guarantee that the transfer will be completed. We may incur significant additional costs if the equipment we plan to re-use from the Sequoyah de-conversion facility to build our de-conversion and FEP production facility is not suitable for use in the planned de-conversion and FEP production facility. We plan to dismantle and re-use the Sequoyah de-conversion facility to construct our de-conversion and FEP production facility. The Sequoyah facility was used to de-convert depleted UF to depleted UF4. It has remained idle since 1993. The Sequoyah facility may contain unanticipated defects, age-related wear or other issues that make it unsuitable for re-use in our de-conversion and FEP production facility. We could incur significant additional costs and delays if we have to construct or otherwise secure components of the de-conversion and FEP production facility that we had planned to re-used from the Sequoyah facility. After completing Phase I of our planned de-conversion and FEP production facility, we may not have sufficient earnings to complete additional planned phases of the facility. We plan to integrate the de-conversion of depleted UF6 with FEP in multiple phases. After funding Phase I, we plan to fund additional phases through earnings. If we do not realize the earnings necessary to fund these additional phases, we may need to find other sources of capital. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise the additional capital required to complete these phases on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the total funds required to complete these phases have been based upon early preliminary estimates and there can be no assurance that unforeseen expenses will not be incurred and additional funding required to complete these phases will be obtained. 12 Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary FEP technology utilized in our planned de-conversion and FEP production facility. We rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights to the FEP technology to be used in our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant. Although we have filed a corresponding international Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) application to seek international protection for the FEP process, we currently have no international protection for our FEP process. We cannot be certain that the FEP-related patents will be issued in all countries where our patents can be practiced. Further, our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our FEP patents are or may be practiced may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, increasing the possibility of piracy of our patents. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our FEP technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We may need to engage in legal actions to enforce our intellectual property rights to the FEP technology, which could require the spending of a significant amount of resources and the attention and efforts of our management and technical personnel. Accordingly, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights to FEP technology or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related To Our Current Business Operations We are dependent on various third parties in connection with our business operations. The production of high specific activity cobalt is dependent upon the DOE, and its prime-operating contractor, which controls the Idaho reactor. Loss of the ability to use these irradiation services would significantly impact our cobalt products business segment because there is not currently another reactor available in the United States that is capable of providing this type of service for us. Our gemstone production is tied to an exclusive agreement with Quali-Tech, Inc., and future gemstone irradiation services are dependent upon the continuation of that agreement. Should this agreement terminate, sales in our radiological services would be negatively impacted because the agreement prohibits us from processing gemstones for other customers for two years after the agreement terminates. Our nuclear medicine calibration and reference standard manufacturing is conducted under an exclusive contract with RadQual, LLC, which in turn has agreements in place with several companies for marketing and sales. One of our main core business segments, cobalt products, is dependent on continued access to the Idaho research reactor and our continued ability to carry out work under the DOE's Federal Work for Others non-government sponsor programs. Our radiochemical iodine is supplied through a contract with a single supply source. Unanticipated contract terminations by any of these suppliers and other third parties can have a material adverse impact on operations, financial results, and cash flow. We are dependent on a limited number of customers in connection with our current business operations. During 2010, sales to one major customer accounted for 54% of our total gross revenue. Sales under exclusive contract with this customer represented 29%, 29%, and 33% of our total gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Combined sales to our three largest customers accounted for 52% of our total gross revenues during 2010. Combined sales to these three customers accounted for 51% of gross revenue in 2009 and 50% in 2008. Although we are making efforts to reduce our dependency on a small number of customers, the loss of any one of these significant customers could have a significant impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. Unanticipated contract terminations by any of these current customers could have a material adverse impact on operations, financial results, and cash flow. We are subject to competition from other companies. Each of our existing business areas has direct competition from other businesses. High specific activity cobalt is supplied by other reactor facilities around the world. Nuclear medicine calibration and reference standards are being produced by one other major manufacturer in the United States. Most of our radiochemicals are also manufactured by several other companies in the world, and there are other suppliers of high-purity fluoride products. Each of our competitors has significantly greater financial resources that could give them competitive advantage over us. 13 Risks Related To Our Company Generally We have incurred and may continue to incur losses. With the exception of 2002, we have incurred net losses for most fiscal periods since our inception. From inception through December 31, 2010, we have generated $52,143,789 in revenues and accumulated deficit (including preferred stock dividends and returns) in the amount of $106,044,054. The negative cash flow we have sustained has materially reduced our working capital, which in turn, could materially and negatively impact our ability to fund future operations and continue to operate as a going concern. Management has and continues to take actions to improve our results. The availability of necessary working capital, however, is subject to many factors beyond our control, including our ability to obtain favorable financing, economic cycles, market acceptance of our products, competitors' responses to our products, the intensity of competition in our markets, and the level of demand for our products. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. The materials used in our operations subject us to risks of environmental contamination that subject us to liability, including remediation obligations that could be very costly. In addition, the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. An irrevocable, automatically renewable letter of credit against a certificate of deposit at Wells Fargo Bank N.A. has been used to provide the financial assurance required by the NRC for our Idaho facility license for decommissioning upon termination of operations and a similar mechanism will be required to fund the decommissioning of the new facility. However, if a contamination event from the spread of uranium occurs within, or outside, of our facility, we would be financially responsible to remediate such spills and could have to borrow money or fund the remediation liability from our future revenue. We may not be able to borrow the funds, or have available revenue, sufficient to meet this potential liability, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our ongoing operations are dependent on Steve T. Laflin, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Laflin could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a $2 million key man life insurance policy on Mr. Laflin and an employment agreement that extends through April 30, 2011. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain Mr. Laflin or our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees. The loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to attract additional qualified employees could result in a significant decline in revenue. General economic conditions in markets in which we do business can impact the demand for our goods and services. Decreased demand for our products and services can have a negative impact on our financial performance and cash flow. Demand for our products and services, in part, depends on the general economic conditions affecting the countries and industries in which we do business. A downturn in economic conditions in a country or industry that we serve may negatively impact demand for our products and services, in turn negatively impacting our operations and financial results. Further, changes in demand for our products and services can magnify the impact of economic cycles on our businesses. For instance, our topaz gemstone processing is affected by the demand for luxury items such as jewelry as well as by the instability of foreign markets which are key in the manufacture of products using irradiated gemstones. Volatility in raw material and energy costs, interruption in ordinary sources of supply and an inability to recover unanticipated increases in energy and raw material costs from customers could result in lost sales or significantly increase the cost of doing business. Market and economic conditions affecting the costs of raw materials, utilities, energy costs, and infrastructure required to provide for the delivery of our goods and services are beyond our control and any disruption or halt in supplies, or rapid escalations in costs could affect our ability to manufacture products or to competitively price our products in the marketplace. For instance, an interruption in the supply of isotopes such as cobalt -57 or iodine -131 could result in lost sales of nuclear medicine and calibration standards sales and radiochemical products 14 We are subject to extensive government regulation in jurisdictions around the globe in which we do business. Regulations address, among other things, environmental compliance, import/export restrictions, healthcare services, taxes and financial reporting, and can significantly increase the cost of doing business, which in turn can negatively impact our operations, financial results and cash flow. We are subject to government regulation and intervention both in the United States and in all foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and operating costs and changes to current regulations with which we must comply can necessitate further capital expenditures and increases in operating costs to enable continued compliance. Additionally, from time to time, we may be involved in legal or administrative proceedings under certain of these laws and regulations. Significant areas of regulation and intervention include the following: Radioactive Waste. All of our manufacturing processes generate some radioactive waste. We must handle this waste pursuant to the Low Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980, which requires the safe disposal of mildly radioactive materials. The estimated costs for storage and disposal of these materials have been included in the manufacturing and sales price of our products. However, actual disposal costs are subject to change at the discretion of the disposal site and are ultimately applied at the time of disposal. The NRC is revising its regulations on the disposal of depleted uranium waste at LLRW disposal facilities that accept substantial quantities of depleted uranium. If commercial LLRW disposal facilities are not readily available to us, we may not be able to provide the de-conversion services at the level assumed by our business model. Health Compliance. Health regulations, dictated by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and NRC are extensive in our business. There is no assurance that our activities will not at times result in liability under health regulations. Costs and expenses resulting from such liability may materially negatively impact our operations and financial condition. Overall, health laws and regulations will continue to affect our business worldwide. Environmental Regulation. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and state statutes such as the Idaho Hazardous Waste Management Act, the Low Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980, NRC regulations concerning various irradiated, radioactive, and depleted uranium materials, and United States Department of Transportation regulations concerning shipment of radioactive materials. Certain of these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Import/Export Regulation. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight of our import and export operations due to the nature of our product offerings. Penalties for non-compliance can be significant and violations can result in adverse publicity. Taxes. We structure our operations to be tax efficient and to make use of tax credits and other incentives. Nevertheless, changes in tax laws, actual results of operations, final audit of tax returns by taxing authorities, and the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized can change the rate at which we are taxed, thereby affecting our financial results and cash flow. Financial Accounting Standards. Our financial results can be impacted by new or modified financial accounting standards. 15 We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that products supplied by us fail to perform as expected or such failures result, or are alleged to result, in bodily injury. Although we have purchased insurance with coverage and in amounts that we believe to be adequate and reasonable in light of our current and planned operations, including our new uranium de-conversion and fluoride gas production business, if a successful product liability claim if brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or established reserves, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We will need additional financing to continue operations. Because we may continue to experience negative cash flow, we will need to obtain additional financing to continue operations. Management will continue to plan and take actions to improve our financial results which could enhance our ability to obtain debt financing. However, obtaining additional financing is subject to many factors beyond our control and may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to financial market risks worldwide, including interest rates. Fluctuations in domestic and world markets could adversely affect interest rates and impact our ability to obtain credit or attract investors. Such market risk could have a negative impact on future business opportunities including our ability to raise additional capital for planned business expansion. The recent Japan nuclear crises could negatively affect our ability to obtain credit and attract investors in the future. We also purchase some of our radiochemical products from overseas suppliers and the price of those products could be adversely affected through changes in currency exchange rates. Catastrophic events such as natural disasters, pandemics, war and acts of terrorism could disrupt our business or the business of our suppliers or customers, and any such disruptions could have a negative impact on our operations, financial results and cash flow. Our operations are at all times subject to the occurrence of catastrophic events outside our control, ranging from severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and storms, to health epidemics and pandemics, to acts of war and terrorism. Any such event could cause a serious business disruption that could affect our ability to produce and distribute our products and possibly expose us to third-party liability claims. Additionally, such events could impact our suppliers, in which event energy and raw materials may be unavailable to us, and our customers, who may be unable to purchase or accept our products and services. Any such occurrence could have a negative impact on our operations and financial condition. Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. 16 Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We currently own a number of United States patents; however, our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable, infringed upon by third parties, or otherwise compromised, including validity challenges through reexamination before the United States Patent Office and/or litigation based upon alleged disclosures in the prior art of our patented concepts or a challenge that one or more of our patents is obvious in view of the prior art. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property as necessary on commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, under current United States patent law, United States patents, and the associated rights, expire 20 years after the earliest priority date. Some of our earliest patents related to FEP are set to expire in 2018. In some non-United States countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Trading in our common stock is limited and the price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility. Our common stock has historically been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board® under the ticker symbol “INIS.OB.”. The market for our securities is limited, the price of our stock is volatile, and the risk to investors in our common stock is greater than the risk associated with stock trading on other markets. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of their shares. This could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, the price of our common stock may be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • our ability to complete the planned de-conversion facility on the planned schedule or at all; • our ability to successfully conceive and develop new products and services to enhance the performance characteristics and methods of manufacture of existing products; • our ability to successfully execute our business plan; • our ability to retain existing customers and customers' continued demand for our products and services; • the timing of our research and development expenditures and of new product introductions; • the timing and level of acceptance of new products or enhanced versions of our existing products; and • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the near future. Consequently, an investor in our common stock can only achieve a return on its investment in us if the market price of our common stock appreciates. 17 We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, which will dilute your interest in us. As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately 20,035,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of vested stock options outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $0.10 per share. An additional 8,758,514 shares are reserved for issuance under our 2006 Equity Incentive and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of December 31, 2010. We expect to issue additional options to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors, and may issue additional shares to raise capital to fund design, licensing and construction of a uranium de-conversion plant. Any such issuances will have the effect of further diluting the interest of the holders of our securities. Also outstanding as of December 31, 2010, are Series E warrants for the issuance of an additional 13,333,331 shares of common stock, Series F warrants for the issuance of 8,200,000 shares of common stock, Series G warrants for the issuance of 4,407,306 of common stock and warrants for the issuance of 30,612,333 shares of common stock. Additionally, we have issued convertible debentures with an aggregate principal balance of $3,075,000, which accrued a fixed sum of interest equal to 6% of the principal amount automatically upon issuance. These debentures are convertible at the option of the holders into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price equal to $0.35, subject to certain adjustments. Upon maturity on August 24, 2011, the outstanding principal amount of the debentures and all accrued but unpaid interest will be converted into common stock at a conversion price equal to the lesser of $0.35 and the average closing price of our common stock for the 120 consecutive trading days up to, but not including, the maturity date, subject to adjustment as set forth in the debentures. To the extent any of the debentures are outstanding as of the maturity date and are automatically converted pursuant to the terms of the debentures, then investors holding such debentures will receive warrants to purchase the number of shares of common stock equal to one half of the number of shares of common stock issued upon automatic conversion of the debenture. 