RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood that the Company May Incur Losses. Jet fuel costs are subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict, including increases in demand, sudden disruptions in and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. Fuel prices increased substantially in fiscal years 2008 and 2007 and are currently at or near historical highs, which will have a significant impact on Ryanair’s costs, and in turn, on its operating results. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair’s fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates or the unavailability of adequate supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions, or the suspension of production by any significant producer, could have a material adverse effect on Ryanair’s profitability. In the event of a fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, additional increases in fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services could result. While Ryanair historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering 12-18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements, Ryanair (like many other airlines) has, in recent periods, entered into such hedging arrangements on a much more selective basis. Nonetheless, in light of the oil price spike of 2008, Ryanair has significantly increased its hedging for the period from September to December 2008. At July 25, 2008, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for September 2008, at prices equivalent to approximately $129 per barrel of Brent crude oil, and 80% of its estimated requirements for the period from October 2008 through December 2008 at prices equivalent to approximately $124 per barrel. Ryanair has not otherwise entered into material agreements to seek to fix the price of a material quantity of fuel, including for periods beyond December 2008, and the Company may be significantly exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, especially in light of the recent significant increases. Depending on oil price movements over the coming weeks, the Company expects to hedge its fuel requirements for the fourth quarter of its 2009 fiscal year. The Company’s outlook for the current fiscal year, to March 2009, remains entirely dependent on fuel prices. If average fuel prices in the 2009 fiscal year remain at or near current levels, the Company will incur losses, which may be significant, unless it is able to offset the negative impact of fuel prices by increasing fares above their current levels. Given the generally deteriorating economic environment in Ireland, the United Kingdom, and elsewhere in Europe, as well as the Company’s significant expansion plans, which will tend to have a negative impact on yields, the Company does not expect to be able to implement such fare increases in the near term and, in fact, the Company currently intends to respond to high fuel costs and the threat of recession by reducing fares. The combination of declining fares and increased fuel costs is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Even if the average oil price (for Brent crude oil) is $130 per barrel in the 2009 fiscal year, the Company’s management currently estimates that, if the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate remains at or near the July 30, 2008 level of €1.00=$1.5589, the Company will, at best, break even, and is likely to incur significant losses. See “—The Company May Not Be Successful in Raising Fares to Offset Increased Business Costs” below. No assurances whatsoever can be given about trends in fuel prices and average fuel prices for the year, or for future years, may be significantly higher than current prices. Every $1 movement in the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil will impact Ryanair’s net income by approximately €4 million, taking into account Ryanair’s hedging program for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. There can be no assurance, however in this regard, and the impact of fuel prices may be even more pronounced. There cannot be any assurance that Ryanair’s current or any future arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from further increases in the price of fuel, that Ryanair will not incur losses due to high fuel prices, alone or in combination with other factors, or that fuel prices will ever decline from their current high levels. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Fuel Price Exposure and Hedging.” Because of Ryanair’s low fares and its no-fuel-surcharges policy, as well as the Company’s significant expansion plans, which will tend to have a negative impact on yields, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is limited. Moreover, the anticipated expansion of Ryanair’s fleet will result in an increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair’s aggregate fuel costs. Based upon Ryanair’s fuel consumption for the 2008 fiscal year, a change of one U.S. cent in the average annual price per gallon of aviation fuel would have caused a change of approximately €3.6 million in the Company’s annual fuel costs (or a change of approximately €10 million for each $1.00 change in the price of one barrel of Brent crude oil). Ryanair’s fuel costs in the 2008 fiscal year, after giving effect to the Company’s fuel hedging activities, increased by 14.1% over the comparable period ended March 31, 2007, to €791.3 million, primarily due to an increase in the number of sectors flown and the average sector length as a result of the 7 Table of Contents expansion of Ryanair’s fleet and route network, offset in part by the positive impact on fuel costs of the strengthening of the euro against the dollar and a decrease in the average hedged price of fuel. Ryanair estimates that its fuel cost would have been approximately €915.8 million in the 2008 fiscal year, compared to €688.7 million in the 2007 fiscal year had Ryanair not had any hedging arrangements in place in the 2008 fiscal year. The Company May Not Be Successful in Raising Fares to Offset Increased Business Costs. Ryanair operates a low-fares airline. The success of its business model depends on its ability to control costs so as to deliver low fares while at the same time earning a profit. However, the company currently faces an environment of weakening economic demand and high jet fuel costs. In this environment, Ryanair will be able to generate profits only if it is able to increase its fares. However, the Company’s significant expansion plans may have a negative impact on yields, and, moreover, (i) it faces price competition from other airlines; and (ii) its passengers expect to pay low fares for its no-frills service. See “—The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment” below. As a result, Ryanair does not currently intend to increase fares, but will instead meet the threat of falling consumer demand by reducing fares to gain market share. This strategy is extremely likely to lead to losses, which may be significant, in the short term. Since late 2007, economic conditions have deteriorated in Ireland, in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe. See “—The Company is Dependent on the Ireland-U.K. Market” below. Even taking into account the Company’s plans to reduce fares, the Company is likely to face pressure on its fares and yields as a result of the changed economic circumstances of its passengers. If the Company is not able to increase its fares and yields to temper the significant inflation in its input costs, particularly fuel costs, the Company’s results of operations are likely to be materially adversely affected and it is likely that the Company will incur losses even greater than those that it might otherwise incur. Every 1% movement in average fares tends to impact Ryanair’s net income by approximately €26 million. Terrorism in the United Kingdom or Elsewhere in Europe Could Have a Material Detrimental Effect on the Company. On August 10, 2006, U.K. security authorities arrested and subsequently charged eight individuals in connection with an alleged plot to attack aircraft operating on transatlantic routes. As a result of these arrests, U.K. authorities introduced increased security measures, which resulted in all passengers being body-searched, and a ban on the transportation in carry-on baggage of certain liquids and gels. The introduction of these measures led to passengers suffering severe delays while passing through these airport security checks. As a result, Ryanair cancelled 279 flights in the days following the incident and refunded a total of €2.7 million in fares to approximately 40,000 passengers. In the days following the arrests, Ryanair also suffered reductions in bookings estimated to have resulted in the loss of approximately €1.9 million of additional revenue. As in the past, the Company reacted to these adverse events by initiating system-wide fare sales to stimulate demand for air travel. On September 1, 2006, Ryanair filed a claim for €4.6 million in compensation against the U.K. Department of Transport under section 93 of the U.K. Transport Act 2000. Section 93 of the act provides for compensation for airlines in cases in which the department has issued directions under the act that have led to financial damages to the airlines. The case, which is to be heard in the London High Court, is currently adjourned pending the outcome of consultation by the Department of Transport on membership of the UK National Aviation Security Council. In addition, reservations on Ryanair’s flights to London dropped materially for a number of days in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks in London on July 7, 2005. Although the terrorist attack in Glasgow on June 30, 2007 (in which a car filled with explosives was driven into the Glasgow airport) and the failed terrorist attacks in London on July 21, 2005 and June 29, 2007 had no material impact on bookings, there can be no assurance that future such attacks will not affect our passenger traffic. In the 2008 fiscal year, flights into and out of London accounted for €18.6 million, or approximately 37%, of passengers traveling on the Company’s network. In the 2007 and 2006 fiscal years, flights into and out of London accounted for 18.9 million passengers and 17.5 million passengers, respectively, or approximately 44% and 50%, respectively, of passengers traveling on the Company’s network. Future acts of terrorism or significant terrorist threats, particularly in London or other markets that are significant to Ryanair, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability or financial condition should the public’s willingness to travel to and from those markets be reduced as a result. See also “Risks Related to the Airline Industry—The 2001 Terrorist Attacks on the United States Had a Severe Negative Impact on the International Airline Industry.” The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Alleging State Aid at Certain Airports. In December 2002, the European Commission announced the launch of an investigation into the April 2001 agreement between Ryanair and Brussels (Charleroi) airport and the airport’s owner, the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium. The agreement enabled the Company to launch new routes and base up to four aircraft at Brussels (Charleroi). 8 Table of Contents In February 2004, the European Commission found that a portion of the arrangements between Ryanair, the airport and the region constituted state aid, and therefore ordered Ryanair to repay the amount of the benefit received in connection with those arrangements. In May 2004, Ryanair appealed the decision of the European Commission to the European Court of First Instance (“CFI”), requesting that the decision be annulled. The CFI heard Ryanair’s appeal in March 2008 and Ryanair is awaiting the decision of the court. In addition, in April 2004, the Walloon Region wrote to Ryanair requesting repayment of all amounts that had been deemed illegal, although it acknowledged Ryanair’s right to offset against these amounts certain costs incurred in relation to the establishment of the base, in accordance with the European Commission’s decision. In September 2004, the Walloon Region issued a formal demand that Ryanair repay a total of approximately €4 million, excluding any interest that may be due. Ryanair believes that no repayment is due when such offsets are taken into account, although it has placed this amount in escrow pending the outcome of its appeal. In May 2005, the Walloon Region initiated a new proceeding currently pending before the Irish High Court to recover a further €2.3 million in start-up costs that had been reimbursed to Ryanair in connection with its establishment of the base. Ryanair does not believe any such payment is due and is currently defending the action. For additional details on this matter, please see “Item 8. Financial Information—Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” On September 6, 2005, the European Commission announced new guidelines on the financing of airports and provision of start-up aid to airlines by certain publicly-owned airports based on the European Commission’s finding in the Charleroi case. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” In an unrelated, though similar, matter, in July 2003, a Strasbourg court ruled (on the basis of a complaint by the Air France Group (“Air France”)) that marketing support granted by the Strasbourg Chamber of Commerce to Ryanair in connection with its launch of services from Strasbourg to London (Stansted) constituted state aid. The judgment took effect on September 24, 2003 and was upheld on appeal. As a result of the initial decision of the Strasbourg court to annul Ryanair’s contract with Strasbourg Airport, Ryanair decided to close the Strasbourg route and instead opened a route from Baden-Karlsruhe in Germany to London (Stansted) (Baden airport is located some 40 kilometers from Strasbourg). Ryanair is facing similar legal challenges by third parties (mainly competing airlines) with respect to agreements with certain other airports. In 2007 and 2008, the European Commission announced that it had started investigations of airport agreements at the Hamburg (Lubeck), Tampere, Berlin (Schonefeld), Alghero, Pau, Bratislava and Dortmund airports; however, Ryanair has only limited operations to and from the first six of these airports and does not operate flights to or from Dortmund. On June 17, 2008, the European Commission launched a further investigation into Ryanair’s agreements at Frankfurt (Hahn) airport, which is a significant base for Ryanair. The European Commission announced in a public statement that its initial investigation had found that the airport might have acted like a private market investor but that it had insufficient evidence to reach a conclusion and therefore had elected to open a formal investigation. The formal investigation is ongoing and is expected to last between a year and 18 months. However, complaints by Lufthansa about Ryanair’s cost base have been rejected by German courts. Adverse rulings in these or similar cases could be used as precedents by other competitors to challenge Ryanair’s agreements with other publicly-owned airports and could cause Ryanair to strongly reconsider its growth strategy in relation to public or state-owned airports across Europe. This could in turn lead to a scaling-back of Ryanair’s growth strategy due to the smaller number of privately-owned airports available for development. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of these proceedings, nor as to whether any unfavorable outcomes may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the results of operation or financial condition of the Company. The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment. Ryanair operates in a highly competitive marketplace, with a large number of new entrants, traditional airlines and charter airlines competing throughout the route network. Airlines compete primarily with respect to fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, name recognition, passenger amenities (such as access to frequent flyer programs) and the availability and convenience of other passenger services. Unlike Ryanair, certain of Ryanair’s competitors are state-owned or state-controlled flag carriers and in some cases may have greater name recognition and resources and may have received or may receive in the future significant amounts of subsidies and other state aid from their respective governments. In addition, the EU-US Open Skies Agreement, which was signed in April 2007 and entered into effect in March 2008, allows U.S. carriers to offer services in the intra-EU market, which will result in increased competition. See “