Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in shares of the Company’s common stock involves certain risks. The following risks and other information in this report or incorporated in this report by reference, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” should be carefully considered in the evaluation of the Company before investing in shares of its common stock. These risks may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Many of these risks are out of the Company’s direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing financial results. These risks are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business and operation. This report is qualified in its entirety by all these risk factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our Profitability is Dependent on Our Banking Activities. Because the Company is a bank holding company, its profitability is directly attributable to the success of the Bank. The Company’s banking activities compete with other banking institutions on the basis of service, convenience and price. Due in part to both regulatory changes and consumer demands, banks have experienced increased competition from other financial entities offering similar products and services. The Company relies on the profitability of the Bank and dividends received from the Bank for payment of its operating expenses, satisfaction of its obligations and payment of dividends. As is the case with other similarly situated financial institutions, the profitability of the Bank, and therefore the Company, will be subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of funds, changes in the prime lending rate and other interest rates, changes in economic conditions in general and, because of the location of its banking offices, changes in economic conditions in Arkansas, Texas and North Carolina in particular. We Depend on Key Personnel for Our Success. The Company’s operating results and ability to adequately manage its growth and minimize loan and lease losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of its current executive officers and other key personnel. The Company has an experienced management team that the Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing the Bank. The Company does not have employment agreements with most of its executive officers and key personnel. Losses of or changes in its current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt the Company’s business and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in retaining its current executive officers or other key personnel. Additionally, the Company’s ability to retain its current executive officers and other key personnel may be further impacted by existing and proposed legislation and regulations affecting the financial services industry. For example, as a result of the Company’s participation in the CPP, the restrictions and standards relating to executive compensation set forth in EESA subject to regulations promulgated by the Treasury, are applicable to the Company. These restrictions were significantly expanded by amendments to EESA set forth in the Recovery Act. Such restrictions and standards may negatively impact the Company’s ability to retain its current executive officers and other key personnel or otherwise impact its ability to attract and hire such personnel as the Company may be at a competitivie disadvantage regarding payment of compensation, including particularly incentive compensation compared to other financial institutions that are not participants in CPP and accordingly are not subject to the same restrictions and standards imposed under the Recovery Act. Our Operations are Significantly Affected by Interest Rate Levels. The Company’s profitability is dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans, leases and investment securities and interest expense paid on deposits, other borrowings and subordinated debentures. The Company is affected by changes in general interest rate levels and changes in the differential between short-term and long-term interest rates, both of which are beyond its control. Interest rate risk can result from mismatches between the dollar amount of repricing or maturing assets and liabilities, as well as from mismatches in the timing and rate at which assets and liabilities reprice. Although the Company has implemented strategies it believes will 18 Table of Contents reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on its results of operations, these strategies may not always be successful. In addition, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Fiscal and Monetary Policies of the Federal Government and its Agencies Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Earnings. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. Changes in the supply of money and credit can also materially decrease the value of financial assets held by the Company, such as debt securities. The FRB’s policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in such policies are beyond the Company’s control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on the Company’s activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Our Business Depends on the Condition of the Local and Regional Economies Where We Operate. A majority of the Company’s business is located in Arkansas. As a result the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by changes in the Arkansas economy. The current slowdown in economic activity, deterioration in housing markets and an increase in unemployment or further deterioration in such conditions in Arkansas may have a significant and disproportionate impact on consumer confidence and the demand for the Company’s products and services, result in an increase in non-payment of loans and leases and a decrease in collateral value, and significantly impact the Company’s deposit funding sources. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, given the Company’s increasing presence in Texas and, to a lesser extent, North Carolina, the current slowdown in economic activity, deterioration in housing markets and an increase in unemployment or further deterioration in such conditions in Texas or North Carolina could also adversly impact the Company. Our Business May Suffer if There are Significant Declines in the Value of Real Estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. There continues to be a slowdown in economic activity, deterioration in and housing markets and an increase in unemployment in many of the Company’s markets, resulting in declining prices and excess inventories of houses to be sold in these markets. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for the Company’s loan and lease portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of its loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, the Company may not be able to realize the amount of security anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s provision for loan and lease losses and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan and lease portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to real properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. The Company has policies and procedures that require either formal or informal evaluation of environmental risks and liabilities on real property before initiating any loan or foreclosure action, except for (i) loans originated for sale in the secondary market secured by 1-4 family residential properties and (ii) certain loans where the real estate collateral is second lien collateral. These policies, procedures and evaluations may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 19 Table of Contents If We Do Not Properly Manage Our Credit Risk, Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed. There are substantial risks inherent in making any loan or lease, including – • risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions; • risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers; • risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral; and • the risk of non-payment of loans and leases. Although the Company attempts to minimize its credit risk through prudent loan and lease underwriting procedures and by monitoring concentrations of its loans and leases, there can be no assurance that these underwriting and monitoring procedures will reduce these risks. Moreover, as the Company continues to expand into relatively new markets, credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures may need to be adapted to local conditions. The inability of the Company to properly manage its credit risk or appropriately adapt its credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures to local market conditions or changing economic circumstances could have an adverse impact on its provision for loan and lease losses and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We Make and Hold in Our Loan and Lease Portfolio a Significant Number of Construction/Land Development and Other Real Estate Loans. The Company’s loan and lease portfolio is comprised of a significant amount of real estate loans, including a large number of construction/land development loans. The Company’s real estate loans comprised 82.5% of its total loans and leases at December 31, 2008. In addition the Company’s construction/land development loans, which are a subset of its real estate loans, comprised 34.4% of the Company’s total loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2008. Real estate loans, including construction/land development loans, pose different risks than do other types of loan and lease categories. The Company believes it has established appropriate underwriting procedures for its real estate loans, including construction/land development loans, and has established appropriate allowances to cover the credit risk associated with such loans. However, there can be no assurance that such underwriting procedures are, or will continue to be, appropriate or that losses on real estate loans, including construction/land development loans, will require additions to its allowance for loan and lease losses, and will have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We Could Experience Deficiencies in Our Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses, established through a provision for possible loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents the Company’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the existing loan and lease portfolio. Although the Company believes that it maintains its allowance for loan and lease losses at a level adequate to absorb losses in its loan and lease portfolio, estimates of loan and lease losses are subjective and their accuracy may depend on the outcome of future events. Experience in the banking industry indicates that some portion of the Company’s loans and leases may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. Loan and lease losses occur for many reasons beyond the control of the Company. Accordingly, the Company may be required to make significant and unanticipated increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses during future periods which could materially affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, bank regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses. These regulatory authorities may require adjustments to the allowance for loan and lease losses or may require recognition of additional loan and lease losses or charge-offs based upon their judgment. Any change in the allowance for loan and lease losses or charge-offs required by bank regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Performance of Our Investment Securities Portfolio is Subject to Fluctuation Due to Changes in Interest Rates and Market Conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of the Company’s investment securities. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in the Company’s portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political issues, and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Fluctuations in interest rates can materially affect both the returns on and market value of the Company’s investment securities. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, actual investment income and cash flows from investment securities that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed securities and callable securities, may materially differ from those anticipated at the time of investment or subsequently as a result of changes in interest rates and market conditions. Our Recent Results May Not Be Indicative of Our Future Results. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or even grow its business at all. Additionally, in the future the Company may not have the benefit of several factors that have been favorable to the Company’s business in past years, such as an interest rate environment where changes in rates occur at a relatively orderly and modest pace, strong residential and commercial construction in many of its markets, the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities, or generally favorable economic conditions. Various factors, such as weakening or deteriorating economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition may impede or restrict the Company’s ability to expand its market presence or adversely impact its future results. Our FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums Will Continue to Increase. The FDIC has announced a significant increase in the premiums charged for FDIC deposit insurance protection, along with a one-time 20 basis point emergency special industry-wide assessment effective June 30, 2009, to be collected on September 30, 2009. The FDIC also has the ability to pose additional emergency assessments of up to 10 basis points after June 30, 2009. Although, as discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of this Form 10-K, legislation has been introduced in Congress to enable the FDIC to lower the proposed special assessment, the outcome of this legislation is currently undetermined The Company has historically paid the lowest applicable premium rate under the FDIC’s deposit insurance premium rate structure due to the Company’s sound financial position. The FDIC announced deposit insurance premiums for 2009 are expected to more than double and, should bank failures continue to increase, such premiums may escalate further. These increased FDIC premiums will have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. To Successfully Implement Our Growth and De Novo Branching Strategy, We Must Expand Our Operations in Both New and Existing Markets. The Company intends to continue the expansion and development of its business by pursuing its growth and de novo branching strategy. Accordingly, the Company’s growth prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by banking companies pursuing growth strategies. In order to successfully execute its growth and de novo branching strategy, the Company must, among other things: • identify and expand into suitable markets; • obtain regulatory and other approvals; • build a substantial customer base; • maintain credit quality; • attract sufficient deposits to fund anticipated loan and lease growth; • attract and retain qualified bank management and staff; • identify and acquire suitable sites for new banking offices; and • maintain adequate regulatory capital. In addition to the foregoing factors, there are considerable costs involved in opening banking offices, and such new offices generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for some time. Therefore, any new banking offices the Company opens can be expected to negatively affect its operating results until those offices reach a size at which they become profitable. The Company could also experience an increase in expenses if it encounters delays in opening any new banking offices. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurances that any new banking offices it opens will be successful, even after they have become established. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively and continue to successfully implement its de novo branching strategy, the Company’s business, future prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Volatility and Disruptions in the Functioning of the Financial Markets and Related Liquidity Issues Could Continue or Worsen. The U.S. and global financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption in recent months. The impact of this financial crisis, together with ongoing public concerns regarding the strength of financial institutions, has led to both significant distress in financial markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. As a result of concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally, the constriction in credit, the lack of public confidence in the financial sector, and the ongoing recession, including the reduced business activity, the Company can give no assurance that such circumstances will not have an adverse effect, which could be material, on its financial condition, results of operation and liquidity. We Face Strong Competition in Our Markets. Competition in many of the Company’s banking markets is intense. The Company competes with other financial and bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerages, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, leasing companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders and other financial institutions and intermediaries. Many of these competitors have an advantage over the Company through substantially greater financial resources, lending limits and larger branch networks, and are able to offer a broader range of products and services. Other competitors, many of which are smaller than the Company, are privately held and thus benefit from greater flexibility in adopting or modifying growth or operational strategies than the Company. If the Company fails to compete effectively for deposit, loan, lease and other banking customers in the Company’s markets, the Company could lose substantial market share, suffer a slower growth rate or no growth and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial stability of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to various counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial and correspondent banks, and others. As a result, defaults by, or rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to further market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by such other institutions. Such occurrences could expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We Depend on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information About Customers. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into certain transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Internal Operations are Subject to a Number of Risks. The Company’s internal operations are subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate the risks of many of these occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for certain risks. However, should an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, and is uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The future success of the Company will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially 22 Table of Contents greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The computer systems and network infrastructure in use by the Company could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company’s operations are dependent upon the ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from fire, severe storm, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure of the Company’s computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in operations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, the Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by Internet users or other users. Computer break-ins and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company’s computer systems and network, which may result in significant liability to the Company, as well as deter potential customers. Although the Company, with the help of third-party service providers, intends to continue to actively monitor and, where necessary, implement security technology and develop additional operational procedures to prevent damage or unauthorized access to its computer systems and network, there can be no assurance that these security measures or operational procedures will be successful. In addition, new developments or advances in computer capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography could enable hackers to compromise or breach the security measures used by the Company to protect customer data. The Company’s failure to maintain adequate security over its customers’ personal and transactional information could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future to Continue to Grow, But That Capital May Not Be Available When Needed. Federal and state bank regulators require the Company and the Bank to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. On December 31, 2008, the Company’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios were at “well-capitalized” levels under bank regulatory guidelines. However, the Company’s business strategy calls for the Company to continue to grow in its existing banking markets (internally and through opening additional offices) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. Growth in assets resulting from internal expansion and new banking offices at rates in excess of the rate at which the Company’s capital is increased through retained earnings will reduce both the Company’s and the Bank’s capital ratios unless the Company and the Bank continue to increase capital. If the Company’s or the Bank’s capital ratios fell below “well-capitalized” levels, the FDIC deposit insurance assessment rate would increase until capital is restored and maintained at a “well-capitalized” level. Additionally, should the Company’s or Bank’s capital ratios fall below “well-capitalized”, certain funding sources could become more costly or could cease to be available to the Company until such time as capital is restored and maintained at a “well-capitalized” level. A higher assessment rate resulting in an increase in FDIC deposit insurance assessments, increased cost of funding or loss of funding sources could have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If, in the future, the Company needs to increase its capital to fund additional growth or satisfy regulatory requirements, its ability to raise that additional capital will depend on the Company’s financial performance and on conditions at that time in the capital markets that are outside the Company’s control. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to it or at all. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, the Company’s ability to expand its operations through internal growth or to continue operations could be impaired. Natural Disaters May Adverserly Affect Us. The Company’s operations and customer base are located in markets where natural disasters, including tornadoes, severe storms, fires and floods often occur. Such natural disasters could significantly impact the local population and economies, and the Company’s business and could pose physical risks to the Company’s properties. Although the Company’s business is geographically dispersed throughout Arkansas and in portions of Texas and North Carolina, a significant natural disaster in or near one or more of the Company’s principal markets could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 23 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INDUSTRY We are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation That Limits or Restricts Our Activities and Could Adversely Impact Our Operations. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, interest rates charged for loans and leases, interest rates paid on deposits, locations of banking offices and various other activities and aspects of the Company’s and Bank’s operations. The Company and the Bank are also subject to capital guidelines established by regulators which require maintenance of adequate capital. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC’s DIF rather than shareholders. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing the Company’s external audit and maintaining its internal controls. Government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, and increases the cost to the Company of complying with regulatory requirements. Additionally, the failure to comply with these various rules and regulations could subject the Company or the Bank to monetary penalties or sanctions or otherwise expose the Company or Bank to reputational risk and could adversely affect its results of operations. Newly Enacted and Proposed Legislation and Regulations May Affect Our Operations and Growth. To address the continuing turulence in the U.S. economy and the banking and financial markets, the U.S. government has recently enacted a series of laws, regulations, guidelines and programs. These regulatory measures include, among others, the following: • EESA enacted on October 3, 2008 which included the TARP and the CPP. • The FDIC announcement on October 14, 2008 of the development and implementation of its TLGP, which is comprised of the Debt Guarantee Program and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. • The Recovery Act signed into law on February 17, 2009, which amended Section 111 of the EESA in its entirety and significantly expanded executive compensation restrictions. • The FDIC announcement on February 27, 2009 of a significantly increased DIF assessment structure on banks in the U.S. generally, together with a proposed 20 basis point one-time emergency assessment and the ability to impose additional emergency assessments of up to 10 basis points to restore the DIF. Because of the recency and speed with which these and other regulatory measures have been enacted, the Company and the Bank are continuing to assess the impact of such on their business, financial condition, results of operation and liquidity. At this time, the Company and the Bank believe that it is impossible to fully assess the impact that such changes might have on them. Additionally, and in the routine course of regulatory oversight, proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of, and federal deposit insurance premiums paid by, banks and other financial institutions and companies that control financial institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of any significant additional changes in laws and regulations in the future and the impact that such changes might have on the Company or the Bank are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting and financial reporting requirements applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies, the Internal Revenue Service and other authorities. Further, federal intervention in fiancial markets and the commensurate impact on financial institutions may adversely affect the Company’s or Bank’s rights under contracts with such other institutions and the way in which the Company conducts business in certain markets. The likelihood and impact of any future changes in these accounting and financial reporting requirements and the impact these changes might have on the Company or the Bank are also impossible to determine at this time. 24 Table of Contents There Can Be No Assurance that Enacted Legislation or Any Proposed Federal Programs Will Stabilize the U.S. Financial System and Such Legislation and Programs May Adversely Affect Us. Several federal acts, programs and guidelines, including, but not limited to, EESA, ARRA, TARP, the CPP, TLGP, the Financial Stability Plan and MHA have been either signed into law or promulgated by the Treasury or the FDIC and similar additional laws, regulations and guidance are anticipated. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these acts, programs and guidelines or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the U.S. Government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of its common stock. The Earnings of Financial Services Companies are Significantly Affected by General Business and Economic Conditions. The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond its control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan and lease delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan and lease collateral values and a decrease in demand for products and services, among other things, any of which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Consumers May Decide Not to Use Banks to Complete their Financial Transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete, through alternative methods, financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower-cost deposits as a source of funds could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCK Our Common Stock Price is Affected by a Variety of Factors, Many of Which are Outside Our Control. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell shares of the Company’s common stock at times and prices they find attractive. The Company’s common stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; and • changes in governmental regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events such as economic slowdowns, interest rate changes, credit loss trends and various other factors and events could adversely impact the price of the Company’s common stock. 25 Table of Contents We Cannot Guarantee That We Will Pay Dividends to Common Shareholders in the Future. The Company’s principal business operations are conducted through its subsidiary bank. Cash available to pay dividends to the Company’s common shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid by the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as the Company’s ability to pay dividends to its common shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of the Bank and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to the Company or Bank may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than regulatory requirements with respect to the Company’s payment of dividends to common shareholders. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to pay dividends to its common shareholders in the future. Also, in connection with the Company’s participation in the CPP, the Company will not be able to increase its quarterly common stock dividend above $0.13 per share without Treasury’s consent until (i) December 13, 2011 or (ii) the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by Treasury. Certain State and/or Federal Laws May Deter Potential Acquirors and May Depress Our Stock Price. Certain provisions of federal and state laws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Under certain federal and state laws, a person, entity, or group must give notice to applicable regulatory authorities before acquiring a significant amount, as defined by such laws, of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including the Company’s common shares. Regulatory authorities review the potential acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The applicable regulatory authorities will then act on the notice, taking into account the resources of the potential acquiror, the potential antitrust effects of the proposed acquisition and numerous other factors. As a result, these statutory provisions may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in such shareholder’s best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. The Holders of Our Subordinated Debentures Have Rights That are Senior to Those of Our Common Shareholders. At December 31, 2008 the Company had an aggregate of $64.9 million of floating rate subordinated debentures and related trust preferred securities outstanding. The Company guarantees payment of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities, and the subordinated debentures are senior to shares of the Company’s common stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on its subordinated debentures and the related trust preferred securities for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of its common stock. The Holders of Our Series A Preferred Stock Have Rights That are Senior to Those of Our Common Shareholders. At December 31, 2008 the Company had 75,000 shares of $1,000 per share liquidation value, or $75 million of aggregate liquidation value, Series A Preferred Stock outstanding as a result of its participation in the CPP of the EESA. The Series A Preferred Stock pays a cumulative quarterly dividend at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% thereafter, and is preferential to shares of the Company’s common stock. As a result, the Company must pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the Series A Prefered Stock must be satisfied before any distribution can be made to the holders of common stock. In addition, if the Company fails to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for six quarters, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have the right to elect two directors to the Company’s board of directors until such time as the dividends have been brought current. Sales or Other Dilution of Our Equity May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common Stock. In connection with its participation in the CPP, the Company issued its Series A Preferred Stock and a warrant representing the right to purchase the Company’s common stock to Treasury. These securities are transferable by Treasury to third persons at any time. The Company has also registered these securities with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933 to enhance their transferability by Treasury. The market price of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of 26 Table of Contents sales of a large number of shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant in the market, or upon the concerns regarding the “overhang” on the Company’s common stock of the outstanding warrant. If the warrant is exercised, the issuance of additional common stock would also dilute the ownership interest of the Company’s existing shareholders. Our Directors and Executive Officers Own a Significant Portion of Our Stock. The Company’s directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned 23.6% of its common stock as of February 2, 2009. As a result of their beneficial ownership, directors and executive officers have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to the Company’s shareholders for approval, including the election of its directors. Our Common Stock Trading Volume May Not Provide Adequate Liquidity for Investors. Although shares of the Company’s common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the daily average trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of the Company’s common stock. Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in its value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report, and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 