D. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not currently anticipate will be material, may impair our business operations and operating results and as a result could materially impact our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We may be unable to comply in a timely manner to file our financial statements for the three months ending November 30, 2007, and the Ontario Securities Commission may impose an Issuer Cease Trade Order We are currently under a Management and Insider Cease Trade Order until such time that the financial statements for the three months ending November 30, 2007 have been filed. Management and Insiders are not permitted to sell their shares until such time as the Cease Trade Order is lifted. On December 13, 2007, the Ontario Securities Commission (“OSC”) issued a Management Cease Trade Order until such time as the statements are filed. On January 28, 2008, the OSC agreed that the Management Cease Trade Order will remain in place to allow us additional time to complete the statements, provided we continue to comply with the alternative information guidelines of the OSC. We intend to continue complying with the alternative information guidelines of the OSC until such time as we become current with its filing obligations. We have historically generated losses and we cannot assure future profitability We have historically generated losses and cannot assure future profitability. In three of our last five years we have reported losses. Losses would have been recognized in the last five fiscal years absent gains on settlement of obligations. As of August 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $(15.3) million. If we continue to have losses in the future, we may not be able to generate positive cash flows sufficient to finance continuing activities. The inability to meet those needs could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures From time to time we engage in discussions and activities with respect to possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our business. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. The integration of the acquired business could also require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. Events and circumstances subsequent to such transaction could also result in impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on factors in the motion picture and television industry The business of producing and distributing film and television programming is highly competitive and involves a substantial degree of risk. Revenues derived from the production and distribution of film and television programming depend primarily upon acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Each film and television program is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. Generally, the popularity of our productions depends on many factors, including the critical acclaim they receive, the actors and other key talent, their genre and their specific subject matter. The commercial success of its productions also depends upon the quality and acceptance of productions that its competitors release into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which we do not control and all of which may change. We cannot predict the future effects of these factors with certainty, any of which factors could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Some or all of our proprietary film and television programs may not be commercially successful, resulting in failure to recoup our investment or realize anticipated profits. Revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly Results of operations for any period depend on a number of factors such as on the number of film and television programs that are delivered, the price at which we are able to sell them and when the cost of the productions are within budget. Consequently, results may vary from period to period, and the results of any one period may not indicate results for future periods. In particular, results of operations in any period depend to a large extent upon our production and delivery schedule for television programs and motion pictures. As a result of the production cycle, its revenues are not recognized evenly throughout any given year. Cash flows may also fluctuate and may not directly correspond with revenue recognition. Our business requires a substantial investment of capital Our ability to maintain and expand its development, production and distribution of proprietary programming and to cover its general and administrative expenses depends upon its ability to obtain financing through equity financing, debt financing (including credit facilities) or the sale or syndication of some or all of its interests in certain projects or other assets. If the our access to existing credit facilities is not available, and if other funding does not become available to replace existing credit facilities should they not be available, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 8 The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business We rely, to a significant degree on the experience, leadership and skills of senior executives who provide unique and useful services. The loss of the services of any key personnel could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we have obtained and intend to maintain “key man” life insurance coverage with respect to these personnel, there is no assurance that the proceeds would be sufficient to compensate fully for the loss of the services of any of these individuals if they were to die. Gary Howsam, who was Peace Arch’s Chief Executive Officer, was arrested on November 5, 2007 in connection with a U.S. federal investigation into certain transactions with Comerica Bank which occurred prior to Mr. Howsam joining Peace Arch. Mr. Howsam was put on administrative leave on November 6, 2007 and voluntarily resigned as director and Chief Executive Officer on November 23, 2007. Jeffrey Sagansky, our Co-Chairman, is currently serving as interim Chief Executive Officer. Although there can be no assurances, we believe that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Howsam. Management’s forecasts for future revenues supporting film book values may not be achieved Investments in film and television programming are amortized against revenues in the ratio that current revenues bear to management’s estimate of ultimate revenues for each program pursuant to the Statement of Position (“SOP-002”) issued by the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. As a result of our policy we typically amortize a minimum of 80% of the costs over a three-year period. Management periodically reviews its estimates and adjusts the amortization of its programming accordingly. In the event that management should determine that the capitalized costs for a program exceed its fair value, capitalized costs would be written down in the current period, resulting in a corresponding decrease in earnings. We may be unable to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the assessment by us of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our assessment may identify material weaknesses and may result in an attestation with an adverse opinion from our auditors, each of which could adversely affect our reputation and share price Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and related regulations presently requires that we perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting for years ending after December 15, 2007 and have our auditors attest to such evaluations on an annual basis for years ending after December 15, 2008. We have been and still are evaluating our internal control systems to allow our management to report on, and our auditors to attest to our internal control over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that we will complete the necessary work to comply with all aspects of Section 404 and related regulations in a timely manner. Weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting may cause us to be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements in a timely manner. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting identifies material weaknesses that must be disclosed, we may receive an attestation with an adverse opinion from our auditors as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, potential acquisitions of businesses that are currently not in compliance with Section 404 requirements could lead to disclosures on currently unforeseen deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. This could adversely affect our ability to comply with business combinations accounting procedures in preparing our consolidated financial results. Each of these conse quences could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and negatively affect the price of our shares. During the year ended August 31, 2007, we identified several material weaknesses which have been disclosed in Item 15. If we fail to remedy any identified material weakness or fail to maintain effective control over financial reporting in the future, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence in our internal control. All of these factors may cause our stock price to decline. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern The auditors’ report on our Consolidated Financial Statements includes comments for U.S. readers on Canada-U.S. reporting differences and note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements outlines factors that cast substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that Peace Arch will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. The continuing operations of Peace Arch are dependent upon its ability to continue to raise adequate financing and to generate profitable operations for the future. We have historically relied on both third party and related party financing. Management is continuing to target sources of additional financing as well as other business and financial transactions to sustain our current and future operations. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in raising additional cash to finance operations or that the continued support of creditors and shareholders will be available. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should Peace Arch be unable to continue as a going concern. 9 The potential for budget overruns and other production risks are difficult to predict Actual production costs may exceed budget, perhaps significantly, due to factors within or beyond our control. These factors may delay or prevent completion of a production. If there are significant cost overruns, we may have to seek additional financing to complete the production. Financing on terms acceptable to us may not be available. We may be unable to recoup the additional costs, which could have a material adverse impact on operating results and liquidity. Productions are bonded and, if necessary, calling upon the bonder to complete can mitigate any significant cost overrun or risk of completion. Reliance on a few key customers Peace Arch’s revenue is generated in part due to production activities in numerous countries. We have several primary customers who purchase distribution rights to the filmed product we sell. We have several large customers through which home entertainment product is distributed. In the year ended August 31, 2007, one customer in the Television segment represented approximately 18% of total revenues, a second customer in the Home Entertainment segment represented approximately 18% of total revenues and a third customer in the Motion Picture segment represented approximately 12% of total revenues and two customers in the Television and Motion Picture segment collectively represented approximately 11% of total revenues. The loss of any one of its major customers would adversely affect our sales and revenues. Furthermore, if any of our customers become insolvent or have difficulties meeting their financial obligations to us for any reason, w e may suffer losses. Sales of outstanding shares may hurt our Company’s stock price Certain shareholders hold a substantial number of shares. The sale of these shares could cause the trading price of our stock to substantially decline .. In addition, such sales may create the perception by the public of difficulties or problems with our products and services or management. Sales of these shares could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that it deems reasonable or appropriate. The preference shares have priority over the common shares of Peace Arch We have 4,347,825 Series I and 4,347,825 Series II preference shares outstanding as of August 31, 2007 and we have the ability to issue additional preference shares. The preference shares shall be entitled to priority over the common shares and over any other shares of the Company ranking junior to the preference shares with respect to the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Peace Arch, whether voluntary or involuntary, or any other distribution of the assets of Peace Arch among our shareholders for the purpose of winding up our affairs. Certain benefits could be lost by failing to meet certain government incentive programs We currently finance a portion of our production budgets through Canadian and United States government agencies and incentive programs, including federal and provincial tax credits, as well as through similar international arrangements in the case of our international co-productions. These tax credits combined can represent approximately 20% of an individual production budget. We will continue to qualify for these tax credits if, among other things, Canadians beneficially own or control a majority of the voting rights of Peace Arch. If Canadians fail to beneficially own or control a majority of the voting rights at any time, we could lose such tax incentives and the costs of its productions would increase substantially. Canadian law requires Canadian conventional, specialty, pay and pay-per-view television services to devote a certain amount of their programming schedules, including prime time, to Canadian productions. If we fail to qualify as a Canadian produc er, it would be more difficult to obtain time slots in Canada for our programming, a “slot” being a broadcast time period for a program. We believe we will continue to qualify as a Canadian producer for this purpose as long as, among other things, Canadians beneficially own or control a majority of the voting rights. These incentive programs, including federal and provincial tax credit programs, may be amended or eliminated in the future, which could result in a material increase in the effective cost of our productions. The loss or elimination of these tax and business incentives would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are smaller and less diversified than many of our competitors Although we are an independent distributor and producer, we compete with major U.S. and international studios. Most of the major U.S. studios are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both means of distributing their products and stable sources of earnings that may allow them better to offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their film and television operations. In addition, the major studios have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, directors and other personnel required for production. The resources of the major studios may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial co ndition. 10 Revenues and results of operations are vulnerable to currency fluctuations We receive a significant portion of our revenues from U.S. and international sources in U.S. dollars while our operating costs and production costs of film and television programming is primarily denominated in Canadian dollars. Accordingly, results of operations can be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar exchange rate. The results of these fluctuations may be material. To date, we have not entered into any material currency hedging instruments. Results of operations are subject to interest rate fluctuations We borrow funds from banks and other financial institutions to finance the production costs of our film and television programming that is generally incurred in advance of contracted receipts and revenues from these programs. These loans may bear interest at rates that change as market interest rates fluctuate. A rise in interest rates would cause an increase in costs to produce film and television programs and an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions Our productions employ members of a number of unions, including, without limitation, the International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees, the Teamsters and the Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio Artists. In addition, the film and television programming produced by us generally employ actors, writers and directors who are members of the Screen Actors Guild, Writers Guild of America and Directors Guild of America, respectively, pursuant to industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements with the Screen Actors Guild and Directors Guild of America were each successfully renegotiated and became effective as of July 1, 2005 for a term of three years. The Writers Guild of America commenced a strike on November 5, 2007. The Writers Guild of America entered into a new collective bargaining agreement on February 13, 2008 and it expires on May 1, 2011. A prolonged strike by one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to production of motion pictures or television programs could delay or halt our ongoing productions. Such halt or delay could cause a delay or interruption in our release or new motion pictures and television programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Piracy of motion pictures, including digital and internet piracy may reduce the gross receipts from the exploitation of our films Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world, including South America, Asia, the countries of the former Soviet Union and other former Eastern bloc countries. Additionally, as motion pictures begin to be digitally distributed using emerging technologies such as the Internet and online services, piracy could become more prevalent, including in the U.S., because digital formats are easier to copy. As a result, users can download and distribute unauthorized copies of copyrighted motion pictures over the Internet. In addition, there could be increased use of devices capable of making unauthorized copies of motion pictures. As long as pirated content is available to download digitally, many consumers may choose to download such pirated motion pictures rather than pay for motion pictures. Piracy of our films may adversely impact the gross receipts received from the exploitation of these films, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results o f operations or financial condition. We could be adversely affected by rapid technological changes and alternative forms of delivery or storage to remain competitive The entertainment industry in general and the motion picture and television industries in particular continue to undergo significant technological developments. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behaviour driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, new video formats and downloading and streaming from the internet. An increase in video-on-demand could decrease home video rentals. In addition, technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as Digital Video Recorders (DVRs), may cause changes in consumer behaviour that could affect the attractiveness of our products to advertisers, and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. Similarly, further increases in the use of portable digital devices that allow users to view content of their own choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements could adversely affect our revenues. Other larger entertainment distribution companies will have larger budgets to exploit these growing trends. If we successfully exploit these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face additional risks from doing business internationally Film and television programming is distributed outside the United States and Canada through third party licensees and revenues are derived from these sources. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the currency fluctuation risks described above, these additional risks include: changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content; changes in the laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes (including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and to withholding taxes); differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; instability of foreign economies and governments; cultural barriers; and wars and acts of terrorism. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 11 Protecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property. We do not have the financial resources to protect our rights to the same extent as major studios. We attempt to protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries. We also distribute our products in other countries in which there is no copyright and trademark protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or certain portions or applications of our intended productions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Litigation may also be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot assure you that infringement or invalidity claims will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of these claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because we are a Canadian corporation, it may be difficult to sue or to enforce a judgment against us We are a Canadian corporation with our principal place of business in Toronto, Ontario. Substantially all of our directors and executive officers and some of the experts named in this report are not residents of the U.S. and virtually all of the assets of these persons and substantially all of our assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible for you to serve summons and complaints within the U.S. upon these persons or upon Peace Arch. Similarly, it may not be possible to enforce in U.S. courts, against such persons or against us, judgments of U.S. courts based upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult in Canadian courts for you, in original suits or in suits for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, to enforce civil liabilities based upon U.S. federal or state securities laws against us or our directors or executive officers, or our experts. We have appointed National Registered Agents, Inc. of Washington, D.C., to act as agent for service of process in any action in any U.S. federal or state court brought against us under the securities laws of the U.S. 