ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Tarragon Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our substantial indebtedness and high leverage could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have substantial indebtedness and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2005: • our total consolidated indebtedness was $953 million; and • our total indebtedness in unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures was $532 million. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired in the future; • certain of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which will expose us to the risk of increased interest rates; and • it may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing economic or market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions. Our secured credit facilities and the other agreements governing our indebtedness limit, but do not prohibit, us or our subsidiaries from incurring significant additional indebtedness in the future. Therefore, these risks may increase as we incur additional indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, political, business, and other factors. We believe that cash generated by our business will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. However, if our business does not generate sufficient cash flow, or future borrowings are not available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may not be able to fulfill our debt service obligations. The restrictive covenants associated with our outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business. Our existing indebtedness contains various covenants that may limit or restrict the creation of liens, mergers, consolidations, dispositions of assets, dividends, redemptions of capital stock, changes in our business or accounting practices, transactions with affiliates, and certain other transactions or business activities. In 12 Table of Contents addition, a number of our debt agreements contain covenants that require us to maintain financial ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we may be in default, and that existing indebtedness can be accelerated so it becomes immediately due and payable. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. A variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: • our financial condition, results of operations, and prospects; • the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in our industry and competitors; • any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; • general market and economic conditions; and • any outbreak or escalation of hostilities. In addition, the NASDAQ National Market can experience significant price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on NASDAQ. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Shares of our common stock eligible for public sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or other issuances of a large number of shares in the market or market perception that these transactions could occur, including sales or distributions of shares by one or more of our large stockholders or by our controlling stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, there were 28,567,364 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of those shares, 12,146,550 were held by our controlling stockholders, Mr. and Mrs. William S. Friedman and their affiliated entities, and a further 1,021,961 were held by our other executive officers and directors. We have a substantial number of stock options and other interests convertible into our common stock outstanding and have the ability to grant a substantial number of stock options in the future under currently effective benefit plans. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 2.7 million shares of our common stock and share appreciation rights covering an additional 97,152 shares under our equity participation plans to our directors, officers, key employees, and consultants and had approximately 1.7 million shares available for future grant. Additionally, at December 31, 2005, Robert C. Rohdie’s minority interest in Tarragon Development Company, LLC, is convertible into 668,096 shares of our common stock, and our senior convertible notes are convertible into 469,771 shares of our common stock. The exercise of outstanding options 13 Table of Contents or the future issuance of options (and the exercise of those options) or restricted stock or the conversion of these interests would dilute the beneficial ownership of existing holders of our common stock. Our governing documents contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of the company by merger, tender offer, proxy contest, or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our board of directors. As a result, a transaction which otherwise might appear to be in your best interests as a stockholder could be delayed, deferred, or prevented altogether, and you may be deprived of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares over prevailing market prices. The provisions contained in our articles of incorporation include: • the requirement of a three-fourths super-majority vote to make, adopt, alter, amend, change, or repeal our bylaws or certain key provisions of the articles of incorporation that embody, among other things, the aforementioned anti-takeover provisions; • the requirement of a two-thirds super-majority vote for the removal of a director from our board of directors and certain extraordinary transactions; and • the inability of stockholders to call a meeting of stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, our directors and management beneficially owned approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock. In light of this, these anti-takeover provisions could help entrench our board of directors and may effectively give our management the power to block any attempted change in control. Risks Related to Our Homebuilding Business We are subject to risks associated with construction and development. Construction and development activities, with respect to both for-sale and rental communities, entail a number of risks, including the following: • we may abandon a project after spending funds, and devoting management resources in determining its feasibility or obtaining regulatory clearance; • opposition from local community or political groups may oppose development or construction at a particular site resulting in delays or abandonment of a project; • we may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms, if at all; • construction costs may materially exceed our original estimates; • we may encounter shortages of lumber or other construction materials, shortages of labor, labor disputes, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, work stoppages, or natural disasters which could delay construction and result in substantial cost overruns; and 14 Table of Contents • we may not complete construction and lease up on schedule. • buyers may be unable to close purchases as agreed. The occurrence of any one or more of these events could result in lower than expected returns or cash flows from communities under development, and we could lose some or all of our investment in those properties, which could have a material, adverse effect on our growth, our business, and our results of operations. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete for, among other things, desirable properties, financing, raw materials, and skilled labor. We compete both with large homebuilding companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing, and sales resources than we do, and with smaller local builders. The consolidation of some homebuilding companies may create competitors that have greater financial, marketing, and sales resources than we do and thus are able to compete more effectively against us. In addition, there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently conduct business. We also compete for sales with individual resales of existing homes and with available rental housing. Our future cash flows from our homebuilding division may be lower than expected. We use the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition to report revenue and profit from high- and mid-rise residential projects. Under this method of accounting, we may recognize revenue from sales of homes before those sales have closed. Due to various contingencies, including delayed construction, cost overruns, or buyer defaults, it is possible that we may receive less cash than the amount of revenue already recognized, or the cash may be received at a later date than we expected, which could affect our profitability and ability to pay our debts. Governmental laws and regulations may increase our expenses, limit the number of homes that we can build, or delay completion of our projects. We are subject to numerous local, state, federal, and other statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning zoning, development, building design, construction, and similar matters which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Projects that are not entitled may be subjected to periodic delays, changes in use, less intensive development, or elimination of development in certain specific areas due to government regulations. We may also be subject to delays or may be precluded entirely from developing in certain communities due to building moratoriums or “slow-growth” or “no-growth” initiatives that could be implemented in the future in the states in which we operate. Local and state governments also have broad discretion regarding the imposition of development fees for projects in their jurisdiction. Projects for which we have received land use and development entitlements or approvals may still require a variety of other governmental approvals and permits during the development process and can also be impacted adversely by unforeseen health, safety, and welfare issues, which can further delay these projects or prevent their development. As a result, our sales could decline and our costs could increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our homebuilding activities and condominium conversions expose us to risks associated with the sale of residential units. Our homebuilding and condominium conversion businesses entail risks in addition to those associated with development and construction activities, including: 15 Table of Contents • market conditions in our target markets may change due to competitive, economic, demographic, geopolitical, or other factors, most of which are outside of our control, that may affect demand for homes; • we may not be able to achieve desired sales levels at our homebuilding projects; • we are exposed to additional credit risk with respect to the individuals to whom we sell homes; • condominium conversions may require substantial legal and other costs, which may not be recovered; • customers may be dissatisfied with the homes we sell, which may result in remediation costs or warranty expenses; • we may be left with unsold inventory, which may result in additional losses due to write-downs in inventory, additional costs associated with carrying inventory, costs and inefficiencies associated with conversion of unsold units into rental units, or sales of units for a significantly lower price than projected; and • the long lead-time of homebuilding projects and condominium conversion projects may result in delayed revenue recognition and difficulty in predicting whether there will be sufficient demand for our homes. Risks Related to Our Business Generally We are subject to all of the risks that affect homebuilders and real estate investors generally. General factors that may adversely affect our homebuilding business, and the value of and our income from, our real estate investment portfolio include: • a decline in the economic conditions in one or more of our primary markets; • an increase in competition for tenants and customers or a decrease in demand by tenants and customers; • increases in interest rates; • general restrictions on the availability of credit; • an increase in supply of the types of properties we develop in our primary markets; • terrorist activities or other acts of violence or war in the United States or the occurrence of such activities or acts that impact our properties or that may impact the general economy; • possible losses from fire, flood, hurricane, or other catastrophe; • the continuation or escalation of world geopolitical tensions; and • the adoption on the national, state, or local level of more restrictive laws and governmental regulations, including more restrictive zoning, land use, or environmental regulations and increased real estate taxes. 16 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense or could reduce our revenues. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $740.2 million of variable rate debt. On that date, our unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had an additional $113.4 million of variable rate debt. We may incur additional variable rate indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates, housing costs, and unemployment and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing. This general tendency is intensified by the fact that prospective buyers of our homes may be required to sell a home prior to purchasing one of our homes, and buyers for those homes will often require mortgage financing. In addition, there have been discussions of possible changes in the federal income tax laws that would remove or limit the deduction for home mortgage interest. Because of the long-term nature of most development projects, condominium conversions, and other real estate investment, it may be difficult for us to adjust our business strategy quickly to compensate for changes in effective mortgage interest rates. If effective mortgage interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected, our operating results may also be negatively affected. Our net income may fluctuate. Our homebuilding revenue may fluctuate as a result of the timing of the completion of projects and unit closings, seasonality of housing demand, the timing and seasonality of construction activity, the condition of the real estate market and the economy in general, material and labor costs, and the availability and cost of mortgage financing. We may not be able to sell our investment properties at the desired time or price. Because of the lack of liquidity of real estate investments generally, our ability to complete our planned divestiture of additional investment division assets, or to otherwise respond to changing circumstances may be impaired. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We cannot predict whether there will be a market for our remaining investment division assets, or whether we will be able to sell them at a price equal to our estimates of their value or at a price that will allow us to fully recoup our investment. We may not be able to realize the full potential value of our investment division assets, and in some cases we will incur costs related to the early pay-off of the debt secured by such assets. We may require significant additional financing that may not be available on commercially favorable terms, if at all. We depend primarily on debt financing to fund the growth of our business. We intend to use a substantial portion of this financing for: • new construction and development; • condominium conversions; • property acquisitions; and • working capital. 17 Table of Contents In addition, when we develop a rental property for our investment division, we will be required to obtain permanent financing to repay outstanding construction loans at the time the property is completed. We cannot predict whether additional sources of financing will be available in the future or the cost of this financing. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on lenders’ willingness to lend and on conditions in the capital markets, and we may not be able to secure additional sources of financing on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. A failure to obtain needed additional financing could have a material, adverse effect on the growth of our business and our results of operations and may force us to curtail our development activities or dispose of properties. Property ownership through partnerships and joint ventures generally limits our control of those investments and entails other risks. We invest in a number of consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures in which our outside partners may have significant decision making authority and voting rights. Partnership or joint venture investments involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including the possibility that our partners might become bankrupt, might have or develop different interests or goals than we do, or might take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies, or investment objectives. Another risk of partnership investments is the possibility of an impasse on decisions, such as a sale or refinancing, or disputes with our partners over the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale or refinancing. In addition, joint venture and partnership agreements typically contain provisions restricting the ability to transfer the interests in the joint venture or partnership and often contain “buy-sell” provisions, which, under certain circumstances, permit a partner to initiate an offer to buy the other partner’s interests or to sell its interests to the other partner, at the other partner’s option. Buy-sell provisions may result in us buying or selling interests in a project at a different time or at a different valuation than we otherwise would have chosen, and we may not have sufficient available funds to make a purchase pursuant to these provisions. There is no limitation under our organizational documents or loan agreements as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures. The rental activities of our Investment Division expose us to a number of risks associated with owning, managing and operating rental real estate. Our investment division’s rental real estate business entails a number of risks, including: • market conditions in our rental markets, which may be affected by local or regional economic and demographic factors that affect demand for rental housing; • we may not be able to achieve sufficient occupancy levels to maintain profitability and service any indebtedness associated with our rental properties; • tenant credit risk; • the imposition of rent control or rent stabilization programs; • competition within our markets, both from other rental properties and housing alternatives, including condominiums and single-family homes; • market conditions may force us to offer additional rental concessions and amenities in order to attract or retain tenants; and 18 Table of Contents • our failure to comply with Americans with Disabilities Act and other laws could result in substantial costs. The regional concentration of our assets may increase the effects of adverse trends in those markets. A substantial number of our assets are located in four core markets: Florida, the Northeast, Texas, and Tennessee. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of these specific markets, including business layoffs and downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations or closings of businesses, geopolitical factors, changing demographics, or oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate, may impair: • occupancy levels and rental rates in our investment portfolio; • our ability to attract new tenants and to collect rent from existing tenants; • our sales prices at homebuilding projects in those markets; and • our results of operations and cash flows. Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverage may affect our results of operations and increase our potential exposure to liability. Partially as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, the cost of insurance has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased, and the availability of insurance has diminished. Significant increases in our cost of insurance coverage or significant limitations on coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations from such increased costs or from liability for significant uninsurable or underinsured claims. In addition, there are some risks of loss for which we may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes, and other geologic events may not be insurable, and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism or from the presence of mold in our rental properties or for-sale homes, may not be economically insurable. A material uninsured loss could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business strategy of acquiring rental properties for conversion to condominiums exposes us to additional risks. We regularly consider acquiring rental properties for conversion to condominiums. Acquisitions involve several risks, including but not limited to the following: • acquired properties may not perform as well as we expected or ever become profitable; • improvements to the properties may ultimately cost significantly more than we had estimated; and • the costs of evaluating properties that are not acquired cannot be recovered. If one or more property acquisitions are unsuccessful due to these or other reasons, it may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Fluctuations in real estate values may require us to write down the book value of our real estate assets. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to assess the impairment of our long-lived assets and our homebuilding inventory whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors management considers that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to minimum future operating results, significant change in the manner of use of the assets, significant technological or industry changes, or changes in the strategy for our overall business. When we determine that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets or homebuilding inventory is impaired, an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the asset over its estimated fair value is recognized. These impairment charges would be recorded as operating losses. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Asset Impairment.” Any material write-downs of assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. It may be difficult to operate profitably in new markets. We may make investments outside of our existing markets if appropriate opportunities arise. Impediments to our success in new markets include: • an inability to evaluate accurately local market conditions and local demand trends; • an inability to obtain land for development or appropriate acquisition opportunities; • an inability to hire and retain key local personnel; and • a lack of familiarity with local and regional regulatory processes and governmental authorities. Failed projects resulting from expanding into new markets could have a material, adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and our properties may have environmental or other contamination. We are subject to various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of public health and the environment. These laws may impose liability on property owners or operators for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on real property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, such substances may adversely affect the value of a property, as well as our ability to sell or rent the property or individual condominium units or apartments, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Environmental claims are generally not covered by our insurance programs. The laws, ordinances, rules and regulations governing the removal, encapsulation and disturbance of asbestos containing materials (“ACMs”) may impose liability on owners or operators for the release of ACMs when such materials are disturbed in connection with the renovation or demolition of an existing building or apartment community. We have programs in place to maintain and monitor ACMs in the apartment communities where ACMs are present. In April 2003, our contractor inadvertently disturbed ACMs in connection with the condominium conversion of Pine Crest Village at Victoria Park. See ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS for additional information concerning this matter. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site’s location, its environmental condition, and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could negatively affect our results of operations. In recent years there has been a widely-publicized proliferation of mold-related claims by tenants, employees, and other building occupants against the owners of those buildings. When we identify any measurable presence of mold, whether or not a claim is made, we undertake remediation we believe to be appropriate for the circumstances encountered. There is little in the way of government standards, insurance industry specifications, or otherwise generally accepted guidelines dealing with mold propagation. Although considerable research into mold toxicity and exposure levels is underway, it may be several years before definitive standards are available to property owners against which to evaluate risk and design remediation practices. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends on key executive officers and personnel. Our success is dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in developing and repositioning residential and commercial properties. In particular, we are dependent upon the services of William S. Friedman, our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer; Robert C. Rohdie, a director and president and chief executive officer of Tarragon Development Corporation, our wholly-owned subsidiary, which runs our homebuilding operations; and Robert P. Rothenberg, a director and our president and chief operating officer. The loss of the services of any of these executives or other key personnel, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our principal stockholders effectively control corporate actions, and their interests may differ from yours. William S. Friedman, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and his wife, Lucy N. Friedman, together with their affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. and Mrs. Friedman are effectively in a position to elect a number of the members of our board of directors and have substantial influence over our management and affairs. In addition, they effectively have veto power over a broad range of corporate actions requiring more than a simple majority vote presently contained in our articles of incorporation, including, without limitation, mergers, business combinations, change-in-control transactions, substantial asset sales, and other similar and extraordinary corporate transactions that can affect the value of our properties. We have and continue to engage in transactions with related parties. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage currently, in transactions with related parties. These related party transactions include ongoing financial arrangements with several members of our board and senior management, including a $30 million unsecured line of credit facility extended to us by affiliates of Mr. and Mrs. Friedman, which was approved by our board of directors. In addition, Mr. and Mrs. Friedman have pledged shares of our common stock that they hold to secure an outstanding credit facility, and we have agreed to indemnify them for any loss, cost, or liability associated with that pledge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 