RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company's Results Jet fuel costs have been subject to wide fluctuations as a result of increases in demand, sudden disruptions in and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. As a result, prices continue to exhibit substantial volatility. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair's fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates or the unavailability of adequate supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions, or the suspension of production by any significant producer, could have a material adverse effect on Ryanair's profitability. In the event of a fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, higher fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services could result. While Ryanair has historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering 12-18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements, in light of the significant increases in oil prices in recent years, the Company now enters into any such hedging arrangements on a more selective basis. At September 15, 2005, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for September 2005 at prices equivalent to approximately $57 per barrel of Brent crude oil, and a comparable percentage of its anticipated requirements for the period from October 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006 at prices equivalent to approximately $49 per barrel. Ryanair paid spot market prices for its jet fuel during November 2004, as well as for the first five months of fiscal 2006. Ryanair has not otherwise entered into agreements to guarantee its supply of fuel. As a result of Ryanair's decision to be more selective in entering into new hedging arrangements, the Company may be more exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, especially in light of recent significant increases. There can be no assurance that Ryanair's current or any future such arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from further increases in the price of fuel, or that fuel prices will decline from their current high levels any time in the near future. See "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Fuel Price Exposure and Hedging." Based upon Ryanair's fuel consumption for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, a change of one U.S. cent in the average annual price per gallon of aviation fuel would have caused a change of approximately EUR2.5 million in the Company's annual fuel costs. Ryanair's fuel costs in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, after giving effect to the Company's fuel hedging activities, increased by 51.6% over the comparable period ended March 31, 2004, to EUR265.3 million, primarily due to the increase in the average price of fuel, an increase in the number of sectors flown and the average sector length as a result of the expansion of Ryanair's fleet and route network, offset in part by improvements in fuel burn per hour and the positive impact on fuel costs of the strengthening of the euro against the dollar. Ryanair estimates that its fuel cost would have been approximately EUR304.5 million in fiscal year 2005, compared to EUR260.5 million in fiscal 2004 (excluding de-icing costs of EUR4.8 million in 2005 and EUR3.7 million in 2004) had Ryanair not had any hedging arrangements in place. Because of Ryanair's low-fares policy, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is somewhat limited. Moreover, the anticipated substantial expansion of Ryanair's fleet will result in a substantial increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair's aggregate fuel costs. 7 Further Terrorist Attacks in London or Other Destinations Could Have a Detrimental Effect on the Company Reservations on Ryanair's flights to London dropped materially for a number of days in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks in London on July 7, 2005 and the failed attacks on July 21, 2005. In fiscal 2005, flights into and out of London accounted for 15.4 million, or 56%, of passengers traveling on the Company's network. As in the past, the Company reacted to these acts of terrorism by initiating system-wide fare sales to stimulate demand for air travel. Future acts of terrorism, particularly in London or other markets that are significant to Ryanair, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability or financial condition should the public's willingness to travel to and from those markets be reduced as a result. See also "Risks Related to the Airline Industry-The 2001 Terrorist Attacks on the United States Had a Severe Negative Impact on the International Airline Industry." The Company Is Subject to Legal Proceedings Alleging Unlawful State Aid at Certain Airports In December 2002, the European Commission announced the launch of an investigation into the April 2001 agreement between Ryanair and Brussels (Charleroi) airport and the airport's owner, the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium which enabled the Company to launch new routes and base up to four aircraft at Brussels (Charleroi). In February 2004, the European Commission found that a portion of the Company's arrangements between Ryanair, the airport and the region constituted illegal state aid, and therefore ordered Ryanair to repay the amount of the benefit received in connection with those arrangements. In May 2004, Ryanair appealed the decision of the European Commission to the European Court of First Instance, requesting the decision be annulled. No assurance can be given that this appeal will be successful. In addition, in April 2004, the Walloon Region wrote to Ryanair requesting repayment of all amounts that had been deemed illegal, although it acknowledged Ryanair's right to offset against these amounts certain costs incurred in relation to the establishment of the base, in accordance with the Commission's decision. In September 2004, the Walloon Region issued a formal demand that Ryanair repay a total of approximately EUR4 million, excluding any interest that may be due. Ryanair believes that no repayment is due when such offsets are taken into account, although it has placed this amount in escrow pending the outcome of its appeal. In May 2005, the Walloon Region initiated a new proceeding currently pending before the Irish High Court to recover a further EUR2.3 million in start-up costs that had been reimbursed to Ryanair in connection with its establishment of the base. Ryanair does not believe any such payment is due and intends to defend the action. For additional details on this matter, please see "Item 8. Financial Information--Other Financial Information--Legal Proceedings." In an unrelated, though similar, matter, in July 2003, a Strasbourg court ruled (on the basis of a complaint by the Air France Group ("Air France")) that marketing support granted by the Strasbourg Chamber of Commerce to Ryanair in connection with its launch of services from Strasbourg to London (Stansted) constituted unlawful state aid. The judgment took effect on September 24, 2003 and has been upheld by one appeals court. Ryanair has appealed this decision to a higher court on the basis that the marketing support granted was not state aid; however, pending the outcome of this appeal, Ryanair decided to close the Strasbourg route and has instead opened a route from Baden-Karlsruhe in Germany to London (Stansted) (Baden airport is located some 40 kilometres from Strasbourg). Ryanair has confirmed that it will reopen the route if its appeal is successful, although no assurance can be given that Ryanair will in fact prevail. Ryanair is facing similar legal challenges by third parties with respect to agreements with certain other airports. Adverse rulings in these or similar cases could be used as precedents by other competitors to challenge Ryanair's 8 agreements with other publicly owned airports and could cause Ryanair to strongly reconsider its growth strategy in relation to public or state-owned airports across Europe. This could in turn lead to a scaling back of Ryanair's growth strategy due to the smaller number of privately-owned airports available for development. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of these proceedings, nor as to whether any unfavorable outcomes may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the results of operation or financial condition of the Company. On September 6, 2005, the EU Commission announced new guidelines on the financing of airports and provision of start-up aid to airlines by certain publicly owned airports based on the Commission's finding in the Charleroi case. See "Item 8. Financial Information-Consolidated Financial Information-Legal Proceedings." The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment Ryanair operates in a highly competitive marketplace, with a large number of new entrants, traditional airlines and charter airlines competing throughout the route network. Airlines compete primarily with respect to fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, name recognition, passenger amenities (such as access to frequent flyer programs) and the availability and convenience of other passenger services. Unlike Ryanair, certain of Ryanair's principal and potential competitors are state-owned or controlled flag carriers and may have greater name recognition and resources and may have received or may receive in the future significant amounts of subsidies and other state aid from their respective governments. In addition, negotiations between the EU and the United States on a comprehensive "open skies" agreement could result in the removal of current barriers to the entry of U.S. carriers into the intra-EU market. See "