ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our consolidated financial statements are presented on a going concern basis. Our current financial condition raises substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in this report on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. In 2007, we experienced a liquidity crisis caused by the sudden and rapid deterioration of the real estate credit markets and the significant deterioration of the homebuilding industry in the markets in which we operate, which impacted our ability to repay existing indebtedness as it became due and to meet other current obligations. We have a significant amount of debt maturing over the next 12 months. We are not currently in compliance with financial and other covenants contained in certain of our existing debt agreements, and we may not be able to maintain our compliance with other covenants in the future. Our inability to restructure, refinance or extend our maturing 13 Table of Contents debt, comply with our loan covenants, or obtain waivers of non-compliance could give lenders the right to declare a default and accelerate the payment of the outstanding indebtedness. We may not be able to repay those amounts without selling additional assets, which we might have to do at prices below the fair values and the carrying values of those assets. These matters raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred a net loss of ($388.4 million). As of December 31, 2007, we had stockholder’s deficit of ($112.8 million). Our ability to continue as a going concern will be dependent upon our ability to complete asset sales, restructure or refinance existing debt, obtain modifications or waivers of our loan covenants, and continue to sell completed homes in inventory. There can be no assurance of our success in these efforts. The consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets. We have a significant amount of debt maturing in the near term and are currently not in compliance with covenants in certain of our loan agreements. We have loans with an aggregate December 31, 2007 balance of $213.5 million that are maturing during 2008. The deterioration in the real estate credit markets during 2007 and our recent liquidity challenges that resulted in defaults on most of our existing indebtedness may negatively impact our ability to refinance this indebtedness as it matures. Our ability to repay this debt as it matures or obtain loan extensions or refinancing will depend on our future performance and successful execution of our business strategy. If we are unable to repay this debt as it matures, or obtain loan extensions or refinancings, we may lose our investment in the properties secured by the related debt. Further, at December 31, 2007, we were not in compliance with financial covenants contained in debt agreements with an aggregate principal balance of $9 million for which we have not obtained waivers of noncompliance from our lenders. If we are unable to obtain modifications of these covenants or waivers of noncompliance, these lenders could give us notices of default and accelerate payment of this outstanding indebtedness. We may not be able to repay these amounts without selling additional assets, which we might have to do at prices below the fair value or carrying value of those assets. We have had to take significant impairment charges against certain of our real estate assets, and a continuing decline in the homebuilding industry or other changed circumstances could result in additional write-downs. As a result of deteriorating market conditions in the homebuilding industry during 2006 and 2007, we have adjusted our strategy with respect to many of the apartment communities we had acquired or targeted for conversion to condominiums, necessitating significant write downs of the carrying values of those and other assets. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded impairment charges on real estate inventory and rental real estate of $368.8 million. If conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen, or our strategy or estimates of cash flows related to certain projects change, some of our assets may be subject to further write-downs in the future, further decreasing the value of the assets reflected on our consolidated balance sheets and increasing stockholders’ deficit. Our ability to grow our businesses depends on our ability to access capital on favorable terms. We have historically relied on project financing to fund growth opportunities in our Development Division, and non-recourse mortgage financing for our Investment Division. The sudden and rapid deterioration of the real estate credit markets in 2007 prevented us from completing almost $50 million in financing transactions that had been under negotiation at that time. Under current market conditions, we cannot predict whether additional sources of financing will be available on terms acceptable to us in the future or the cost of this financing. Our 14 Table of Contents access to debt or equity financing depends on lenders’ willingness to lend, conditions in the capital markets, restrictions and covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements and our own financial condition, and we may not be able to secure additional sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A failure to obtain needed additional financing may require us to limit our development activities, abandon projects in the pipeline, or dispose of properties. Our substantial indebtedness limits our flexibility in adverse market conditions. As of December 31, 2007, we had $1,111.6 million in consolidated borrowings and additional guaranteed debt of our unconsolidated joint ventures totaling $31.6 million. As a result of this substantial indebtedness: • we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions of property and other general corporate purposes; • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate is limited; • we are more vulnerable to adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions; • we are at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • we are limited in our ability to borrow additional funds. Risks Related to Market Conditions and Our Development Business We may experience a continuing decline in demand for new homes in the markets in which we operate. The homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. In 2007, we experienced a decline in demand for our condominium homes in most of our markets, and particularly in Florida. As a result, we had to decrease prices, and increase the use of sales discounts and other incentives, resulting in significant reductions in cash flows and our profit margins. A further decline in the demand for our condominium homes, or an increase in the inventory of new homes and alternatives to new homes, in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even further. We believe that housing market conditions will continue to be challenging and may deteriorate further. We cannot predict the duration or ultimate severity of these challenging conditions. Our customers may not be able to obtain suitable mortgage financing. Sales of our condominium homes are directly impacted by the inability of our potential buyers to obtain mortgage financing for their purchase. During 2007, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant instability. The uncertainties created by events in the sub-prime mortgage market and their impact on the overall real estate credit markets have adversely affected the ability of our buyers to obtain affordable home mortgages. Also, because many potential buyers must first sell their existing homes in order to purchase a condominium from us, the lack of availability of suitable financing for their purchasers also impacts our sales. As a result of increased default rates, particularly in the sub-prime mortgage market, many lenders are no longer offering certain types of residential mortgages loans, or have significantly tightened their loan qualifications for mortgage loans. The lack of availability of these loan products, together with the imposition of more stringent underwriting standards and increased cost of financing have reduced the pool of qualified home buyers and made purchases more difficult for first time and second home homebuyers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected our sales volume and revenues in 2007. Continued unavailability of affordable mortgage 15 Table of Contents financing could further reduce demand for our condominium homes. If the buyers in our backlog of units to be delivered cannot obtain suitable financing in order to purchase our condominiums, it could cause them to cancel the contracts they have signed, or default under these contracts, further reducing our sales and profitability. Future cash flows from our development projects may be lower than expected. We use the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition to report revenue and profit from high- and mid-rise residential projects. Under this method of accounting, we may recognize revenue from sales of homes before those sales have closed. Due to various contingencies, including delayed construction, cost overruns or buyer defaults, we may receive less cash than the amount of revenue already recognized or the cash may be received at a later date than we expected. These circumstances could affect our profitability and ability to pay our debts. In addition, our revenue may fluctuate significantly as a result of the timing of the completion of development projects and closings of sales, seasonality of housing demand, the timing and seasonality of construction activity, the condition of the real estate market and the economy in general, material and labor costs and the availability and cost of mortgage financing. We may continue to experience high buyer default rates. Our backlog reflects the number and value of condominiums for which we have entered into sales contracts with home buyers, but have not yet delivered the condominium. In each case, we have received a deposit from the buyer, and generally have the right to retain the deposit if the buyer does not complete their purchase. In 2007, we experienced an increase in purchaser defaults in our new development projects. We also experienced an increase in the number of buyers contesting our right to retain their deposits upon default. Although we do not believe the defenses asserted by these buyers are valid, and intend to vigorously pursue our rights, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in each claim or be entitled to keep the buyers deposit. Also, there can be no assurance that our rate of defaults will not increase in the future if the current industry downturn continues, or if mortgage financing becomes less available. Future defaults may limit our ability to deliver units from backlog and collect contracts receivable upon the completion of high- and mid-rise residential projects. Our future operations may be adversely affected by high inflation. In a period of high inflation, increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase our sale prices in order to maintain satisfactory margins. However, an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one that we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them. If the current challenging and highly competitive conditions in the homebuilding market persist, we may be required to further decrease prices in an attempt to stimulate sales volume. Under these circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell, and sustained increases in those costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to complete planned development projects or those projects may not be profitable. As a result of changing conditions in our target markets due to competitive, economic, demographic and other factors, we were unable to achieve desired sales levels at our development projects in 2007, and experienced lower than expected returns from these projects. Because of the long-term nature of most development projects, it can be difficult for us to adjust our business strategies quickly to compensate for changes in market conditions. This long lead-time may also result in delayed revenue recognition and difficulty in predicting whether there will be sufficient demand for our homes. Other factors that may affect our ability to complete planned projects or the profitability of those projects include the availability and cost of project financing, shortages of lumber or other construction materials, shortages of labor, labor disputes, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, work stoppages or natural disasters, all of which could delay 16 Table of Contents construction and result in substantial cost overruns. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, further erode our margins and make development projects in our pipeline economically unfeasible. We may have to hold our condominium conversion inventory longer than we anticipated. In 2005 and 2006, we acquired many newer, high quality apartment communities for conversion to condominiums at premium prices. In addition, we targeted a number of properties from our Investment Division portfolio for conversion to condominiums. We generally financed these purchases and conversions with short-term floating rate debt. As demand for condominium homes declined, we were forced to reduce prices and increase sales discounts and other incentives, decreasing our cash flows and requiring additional cash from us to satisfy lender release prices. We repositioned some of these assets as rental properties, incurring additional lease-up and interest costs. Nine of these properties were sold between September 2007 and January 2008, improving our liquidity by reducing negative cash flow, and additional sales are contemplated. However, we may be left with unsold units in “fractured condominiums” that we cannot sell, which may result in additional losses due to write downs in inventory, additional costs associated with carrying inventory, such as insurance and interest expense, costs and inefficiencies associated with conversion of unsold inventory into rental units or sales of units for a significantly lower price than projected. In addition, we may not be able to generate sufficient rental revenue from these assets to cover these carrying costs. Our development business is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. As a developer of condominium homes, we are subject to warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record warranty reserves for the homes we sell based upon historical experience, taking into consideration the types and locations of our projects. Although we believe these reserves are adequate, there can be no assurance that our liabilities to condominium purchasers for warranty claims and latent defects will not exceed our estimates and available insurance. Risks Related to our Businesses Generally Increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense or could reduce our revenues. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $546.5 million of consolidated variable rate debt. On that date, our unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had an additional $116.3 million of variable rate debt. We may incur additional variable rate indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense. Further, most purchasers of our condominium homes obtain mortgage loans to finance their purchases. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates, housing costs and unemployment and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing. This general tendency is intensified by the fact that prospective buyers of our homes may need to sell a home prior to purchasing, and buyers for those homes also require mortgage financing. In addition, there have been discussions of possible changes in the federal income tax laws that would remove or limit the deduction for home mortgage interest. An increase in effective mortgage interest rates, or an adverse change in tax laws, would negatively impact the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases, further reducing demand for our homes. The regional concentration of our assets may increase the effects of adverse trends in those markets. A substantial number of our assets are located in Connecticut, New Jersey, Florida, Tennessee and Texas. In 2006 and 2007, deterioration of the homebuilding industry in the markets in which we operate, and in Florida in particular, led to a decline in new home prices, increased use of sales discounts and other incentives and 17 Table of Contents increased interest and other carrying costs in 2007. The decline in home prices and increase in discounts and incentives decreased our cash flows as closings required additional cash from us to satisfy lender release prices. We also incurred additional lease-up and interest costs associated with apartment properties that we targeted for conversion into condominiums but subsequently decided to operate as rental properties. Nine of these properties were sold between September 2007 and January 2008, and the last two properties are under contract of sale. However, current market conditions in the markets in which we operate remain difficult, and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not continue to adversely impact our operations and cash flows. In addition, deterioration in economic conditions in any of our primary markets, including business layoffs and downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations or closings of businesses, geopolitical factors, changing demographics and oversupply of or reduced demand for homes, could also adversely affect occupancy levels and rental rates in our investment portfolio, and our ability to attract new tenants and collect rent from existing tenants. Our growth strategy for our Investment Division is dependent on our ability to identify a suitable joint venture partner. Our ability to execute our growth strategy for the Investment Division depends in large part on our ability to identify and enter into a joint venture with a complementary real estate investment company capable of executing our plan to expand our residential property management platform and financing the acquisition of additional value-added and investment quality residential properties. There can be no assurance that we will finalize and close any such transaction or, if so, that it will be on terms and conditions favorable to us. Our failure to implement this strategy successfully could limit the growth of our Investment Division, or necessitate the sale of additional properties. We may not be able to sell our apartment communities at the desired time or price. Because of the lack of liquidity of real estate investments generally, our ability to respond to changing circumstances may be impaired. Real estate assets generally cannot be sold quickly. We cannot predict whether there will be a market for our real estate assets, or whether we will be able to sell them at a price equal to our estimates of their value or at a price that will allow us to fully recoup our investment. We may not be able to realize the full potential value of our real estate assets, and in some cases we will incur costs related to the early pay-off of the debt secured by such assets. Property ownership through partnerships and joint ventures generally limits control of those investments and entails other risks. We hold properties, and may hold more properties in the future, in a number of consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures in which outside partners may have significant decision-making authority and voting rights. These partnerships and joint ventures involve risks not otherwise present when a property is owned wholly and directly by us. Our partners might become bankrupt or might have or develop different interests or goals, or might take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or investment objectives. Another risk of ownership through a partnership investment is the possibility of an impasse on decisions, such as a sale or refinancing, or disputes with partners over the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale or refinancing. In addition, joint venture and partnership agreements typically contain provisions restricting the ability of partners to transfer interests in the joint venture or partnership and may contain “buy-sell” provisions, which, under certain circumstances, permit a partner to initiate an offer to buy the other partner’s interests or to sell its interests to the other partner, at the other partner’s option. Buy-sell provisions may result in us buying or selling interests in a project at a different time or at a different valuation than we otherwise would have chosen, and we may not have sufficient available funds to make a purchase pursuant to these provisions. There is no 18 Table of Contents limitation under our organizational documents or loan agreements as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures. Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverage may affect our results of operations and increase our potential exposure to liability. In recent years, the cost of insurance has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased and the availability of insurance has diminished. In addition, there are some risks of loss for which we may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes and other geologic events may not be economically insurable, and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism or from the presence of mold in rental properties or for-sale homes, may not be economically insurable. Significant increases in our cost of insurance coverage, significant limitations on coverage or a material uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past, and will continue to, engage in transactions with related parties, which may cause a conflict of interest and negatively affect our business. We have in the past, and will continue to, engage in transactions with related parties. These related-party transactions include ongoing financial arrangements with several members of our board and senior management, including a $36 million unsecured term loan extended to us by affiliates of Mr. and Mrs. Friedman and Robert Rothenberg with the unanimous approval of our board of directors, including all of the disinterested members of our board of directors. In addition, in October 2007, we sold a rental property under development for $4.3 million of cash and the assumption of a $1.2 million construction loan to an affiliate of Robert C. Rohdie, who served as president and chief executive officer of Tarragon Development Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tarragon, until March 31, 2007, and as a member of our board of directors until August 14, 2007. We believe that these related-party transactions are advantageous to us and in our best interest. However, there may be instances when the interests of these related parties are inconsistent with or adverse to our interests and our stockholders, and as a result, these transactions may cause a conflict of interest. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and our properties may have environmental or other contamination. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of public health and the environment. These laws may impose liability on property owners for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on real property, without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, such substances may materially and adversely affect the value of a property, as well as our ability to sell the property or individual condominium units, lease apartments, or borrow funds using that property as collateral. Environmental claims will generally not be covered by our insurance programs. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given development site vary according to the site’s location, its environmental condition and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict development activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The laws, ordinances, rules and regulations governing the removal, encapsulation and disturbance of asbestos containing materials, or ACMs, may impose liability on owners or operators for the release of ACMs when such materials are disturbed in connection with the renovation of an existing building or apartment community. We have programs in place to maintain and monitor ACMs in the investment properties where ACMs are present. However, in 2006, pursuant to an agreement with the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, Tarragon Management, Inc., or TMI, entered into a plea of guilty with respect to one felony count for failure to comply with the Clean Air Act Work Practice Standards for Asbestos in connection with the 19 Table of Contents renovation of an apartment community undergoing conversion to condominiums. TMI agreed to pay a $1 million fine and received a five-year probation period. It also agreed to institute a comprehensive environmental compliance program, under the supervision of the court and the EPA. In recent years, there has been a widely publicized proliferation of mold-related claims by tenants, employees and other building occupants. When we identify any measurable presence of mold, whether or not a claim is made, we undertake remediation we believe to be appropriate for the circumstances encountered. There is little in the way of government standards, insurance industry specifications or other generally accepted guidelines dealing with mold propagation. Although considerable research into mold toxicity and exposure levels is underway, there are currently no definitive standards available to property owners against which to evaluate risk and design remediation practices. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of key personnel. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in developing residential and commercial properties. In particular, we depend on the services of William S. Friedman, our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer, and Robert P. Rothenberg, a director and our president and chief operating officer. Although each of Messrs. Friedman and Rothenberg are subject to a three-year employment contract with the Company, the loss of the services of either of these executives, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock and the Securities Markets Generally Failure to satisfy the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Select Market could result in our common stock being delisted. On January 4, 2008, we received a staff determination letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market stating that our common stock is subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Global Select Market for our failure to solicit proxies and hold an annual meeting in 2007, in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We requested a hearing to appeal Nasdaq’s determination, which was held on February 21, 2008. Tarragon’s common stock will continue to be listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market pending a decision on the appeal. There can be no assurance, however, that Nasdaq will grant our request to waive this requirement or that our common stock will not be delisted. If our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Global Select Market, our common stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. Accordingly, our common stock would be less liquid, and the value of our common stock could decline. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could result in breaches of covenants prohibiting transfer of ownership contained in certain of our debt agreements. Under these circumstances, the lenders could give us a notice of default and accelerate payment of our outstanding indebtedness. The acceleration of our obligations under these debt agreements would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been strongly affected by changes in public perception of the homebuilding industry, the significant deterioration of that industry in the markets in which we operate, and 20 Table of Contents adverse conditions in the real estate credit markets. A variety of factors may continue to have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: • our financial condition, results of operations and prospects; • changes in our industry; • further deterioration in our markets; • future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, issuances in connection with business acquisitions and the grant or exercise of stock options and restricted stock awards; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market and economic conditions. In addition, The Nasdaq Global Select Market can experience significant price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. We are subject to class action securities litigation that could be costly to defend and distracting to management. The Company and three of its officers, including William S. Friedman, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer, Robert P. Rothenberg, president and chief operating officer, and Erin D. Pickens, executive vice president and chief financial officer, are defendants in a securities class action lawsuit brought on behalf of persons who purchased our common stock between January 5, 2005 and August 9, 2007. In addition, members of our board of directors and Ms. Pickens are defendants in a related shareholder derivative action. The plaintiffs in both lawsuits allege generally that the Company issued materially false and misleading statements regarding our business and financial results during the relevant time period. We do not believe that there is any merit to the claims asserted in these lawsuits, and we intend to defend them vigorously. However, the cost of this defense may be high, and the necessary participation of these key individuals could detract from their ability to devote their full time and resources to improving our business and prospects. Shares of common stock eligible for public sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or other issuances of a large number of shares in the market or market perception that these transactions could occur, including sales or distributions of shares by one or more of our large stockholders. Based on holdings of Tarragon common stock as of December 31, 2007, Mr. and Mrs. William S. Friedman and their family partnership and our other directors and executive officers beneficially own 28.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our governing documents contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of the company by merger, tender offer, proxy contest or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our board of directors. As a result, a transaction that otherwise might appear to be in the best interests of our stockholders could be discouraged, delayed or prevented altogether, and our stockholders may be deprived of an 21 Table of Contents opportunity to receive a premium for their shares over prevailing market prices. The provisions contained in our articles of incorporation include: • the requirement of a supermajority vote to make, adopt, alter, amend, change or repeal our bylaws or certain key provisions of the articles of incorporation that embody, among other things, the aforementioned anti-takeover provisions; • the requirement of a supermajority vote for the removal of a director from our board of directors and certain extraordinary transactions; and • the inability of stockholders to call a meeting of stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned 28.8% of our outstanding common stock. In the light of these shareholdings, these anti-takeover provisions could help entrench our board of directors and may effectively give our management the power to block any attempted change in control. Our principal stockholders have significant influence over corporate actions. William S. Friedman, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, his spouse, Lucy N. Friedman, and their family partnership, beneficially own 22.3% of our outstanding common stock at December 31, 2007. Accordingly, Mr. and Mrs. Friedman have substantial influence over our management and affairs, including the election of directors. In addition, they have significant influence over a broad range of corporate actions requiring a stockholder vote under our articles of incorporation, including, without limitation, mergers, business combinations, change-in-control transactions, substantial asset sales and other similar and extraordinary corporate transactions that can affect the value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person currently serving as one of our executive officers. All of our executive officers are serving at the discretion of our board of directors. No family relationships exist among any of our executive officers. Name Title Age William S. Friedman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 64 Robert P. Rothenberg President, Chief Operating Officer and Director 49 Kathryn Mansfield Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel 47 Todd C. Minor Executive Vice President and Treasurer 49 Erin D. Pickens Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 46 Charles D. Rubenstein Executive Vice President and Chief Real Estate Counsel 49 William M. Thompson Executive Vice President 48 Eileen A. Swenson President of Tarragon Management, Inc. 57 William J. Rosato President of Tarragon Development Corp. 43 Information about each person serving as one of our executive officers is set forth below. 22 Table of Contents William S. Friedman has served as our chief executive officer and director since April 1997 and has served as chairman of our board of directors since December 2000. He previously served as Tarragon’s president from April 1997 through June 2004 and served as a trustee (from March 1988), chief executive officer (from December 1993), president (from December 1988), acting chief financial officer (from May 1990 to February 1991), treasurer (from August to September 1989) and acting principal financial and accounting officer (from December 1988 to August 1989) of Tarragon’s predecessors, Vinland Property Trust (until July 1997) and National Income Realty Trust (until November 1998). Mr. Friedman currently serves on the board of trustees of Brandeis University. Robert P. Rothenberg has served as our chief operating officer and director since September 2000 and as our president since June 2004. Mr. Rothenberg has been the managing member of APA Management L.L.C., a real estate investment and management company, since 1994. He has also been a managing member of Ansonia L.L.C., which is our limited partner in Ansonia Apartments, L.P., since 1997. Mr. Rothenberg graduated from the Harvard Business School with a Masters of Business Administration in June 1984. Kathryn Mansfield has served as our executive vice president since December 1998, secretary since May 1998 and general counsel since June 2004. She previously served as our vice president and our predecessor, National Income Realty Trust (from May 1998 to December 1998). Ms. Mansfield has been an attorney at law since 1984. Todd C. Minor has served as our executive vice president since November 2001 and as our treasurer and our predecessors, Vinland Property Trust and National Income Realty Trust, since December 1996. He also served as our senior vice president (from March 1994 to December 1998) and vice president (from April 1991 to July 1993) of our predecessors. Mr. Minor has a Masters of Business Administration in Real Estate Analysis and is a Certified Treasury Professional. Erin D. Pickens has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since December 1998. She previously served as our vice president and chief accounting officer (from September 1996 to November 1998) and accounting manager (from June 1995 to August 1996) of our predecessors, Vinland Property Trust and National Income Realty Trust. Ms. Pickens has been a certified public accountant since 1990. Charles D. Rubenstein has served as our executive vice president and chief real estate counsel since December 1998. He served as our senior vice president of our predecessor, National Income Realty Trust, from September 1998 to December 1998. Mr. Rubenstein has been an attorney at law since 1984. William M. Thompson, has served as our executive vice president of operations since March 2003. He previously served as our chief information officer (from September 2000 to March 2003). Mr. Thompson has been a certified public accountant since 1981. Eileen A. Swenson has served as president of Tarragon Management, Inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries since September 2000. Ms. Swenson is a Certified Property Manager (CPM) and a member of the Institute of Real Estate Management. William J. Rosato was named president of Tarragon Development Corporation in September 2007. He previously served as senior vice president (from February 2005 to September 2007) and director of construction (from October 2003 to February 2005) of Tarragon Development Corporation. Mr. Rosato received his BA and Master of Architecture degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. He is a member of the American Institute of Architects and a licensed architect in the state of New York. 23 Table of Contents 