Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and other reports we have filed with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem 17 Table of Contents immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed and in that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and one may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, and future profitability is uncertain. We have incurred operating losses in every year since inception, and our accumulated deficit and stockholders' deficit as of December 31, 2008 were $154.8 million and $4.7 million, respectively. Those operating losses are principally associated with the investments we have made and expenses we have incurred relating to our diagnostic services business, and to a lesser extent, the costs related to the research and development of our former ACIS technology (which we transferred to Zeiss as part of the ACIS Sale), conducting clinical trials, preparing regulatory clearance filings, developing Dako's sales and marketing organization to commercialize the ACIS units prior to the ACIS Sale. Although we have reduced our operating losses, we may continue to incur losses as a result of our laboratory services expansion. We may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and/or maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. The aforementioned raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may require additional financing for, among other things, general working capital, expansion of our laboratory operations, possible acquisitions, development of novel molecular tests, capital expenditures and other costs, and it is uncertain whether such financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. We will continue to expend funds for development of novel markers, clinical trials, and to expand our service offerings and will need additional capital if our current business initiatives are not successful or we fail to achieve the level of revenue and gross profit from our services within the time frame contemplated by our business plan. Our present and future funding requirements will also depend on certain other external factors, including, among other things: •The level of development investment required to maintain and improve our service offerings, including the development of novel molecular tests; •Our need or decision to acquire or license complementary technologies or acquire complementary businesses; •Competing technological and market developments; •Changes in regulatory policies or laws that affect our operations; and •Delays in cash collections from our payors, particularly Medicare. We do not know whether additional financing will be available to us as needed on commercially acceptable terms or at all. The current turmoil in the global credit markets adds to such uncertainty due to the more limited availability of credit. These conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom we do business, such as our customers, suppliers, and lenders, to satisfy their obligations to us. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, we might be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our development activities or new business initiatives, or to license to third parties the right to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves. If additional funds are raised through an equity or convertible debt financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. 18 Table of Contents We are required to maintain compliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt financing agreements which can restrict our ability to operate our business, and if we fail to comply with those covenants, our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated. In July 2008, we entered into a new credit facility with Gemino Healthcare Finance, LLC ("Gemino"), and into amendments of our facilities with Comerica Bank ("Comerica") and our majority owner, Safeguard Delaware, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Safeguard Scientifics, Inc. ("Safeguard"). These facilities with Gemino, Comerica, and Safeguard were amended in January and February 2009. The Gemino and Comerica facilities, as amended, each contain a financial covenant requiring us to maintain a "fixed charge coverage ratio" on a cumulative annualized basis of 1.00 through June 30, 2009, 1.10 through September 30, 2009, and 1.20 through December 31, 2009. The "fixed charge coverage ratio" is defined as the ratio of EBITDA (net income plus interest expense, tax expense, depreciation/amortization expense, and stock based compensation expense), to the sum of (i) interest expense paid in cash on the Gemino facility, plus (ii) interest expense paid in cash on the Safeguard and Comerica facilities, plus (iii) payments made under capital leases, plus (iv) fees paid to Safeguard pursuant to its guarantee of our Comerica facility, plus (v) unfinanced capital expenditures, plus (vi) taxes paid. Our credit facilities with Gemino, Safeguard, and Comerica, as amended, contain covenants which, among other things, restrict our ability to: •Incur additional debt; •Pay dividends or make other distributions or payments on capital stock; •Make investments; •Maintain a minimum level of liquidity; •Make capital expenditures; •Incur (or permit to exist) liens; •Enter into transactions with affiliates; •Change business, legal name or state of incorporation; •Guarantee the debt of other entities, including joint ventures; •Merge or consolidate or otherwise combine with another company; and •Transfer or sell our assets. The above covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities, including acquisitions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness (and a breach of our credit facility with Gemino, Comerica or Safeguard would constitute a cross-default under the other facilities). During 2006 and 2007, we were unable to comply with certain financial covenants (including the requirement that we maintain a minimum tangible net worth and operating cash) under our credit agreements with General Electric Capital Corporation (which we repaid in full on March 17, 2008) and Comerica. While our lenders waived those defaults, if a default occurs in the future under any of our credit facilities, Gemino, Comerica, and Safeguard could elect to declare the indebtedness under the applicable facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing such indebtedness. We entered into amendments of our facilities with Gemino and Comerica in February 2009 with the expectation that we could maintain compliance with the financial covenants set forth therein. However, in order to do so, our results of operations in 2009 will have to meet or exceed our 2008 results of operations and such outcome is uncertain. In addition, we have previously not been able to maintain compliance with prior financial 19 Table of Contents covenants in our credit facilities with respect to certain periods and we may not be able to maintain compliance with our current covenants. The aforementioned, coupled with our history of operating losses, negative cash flows, accumulated deficit, and stockholders' deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our credit agreements with Gemino, Comerica, and Safeguard contain material adverse change clauses. If our business encountered difficulties that would qualify as a material adverse change in our (i) operations, (ii) condition (financial or otherwise), or (iii) ability to repay our facilities, our credit agreements with Comerica, Gemino, and Safeguard could be cancelled. Gemino, Comerica, and Safeguard could elect to declare the indebtedness under the applicable facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing such indebtedness. Disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. The global equity markets have been volatile and global credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. If these conditions continue or worsen, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. Our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend upon several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. We sold our Technology Business to Zeiss and we may experience negative consequences as a result of such transaction, including potential indemnification obligations and restrictions on our business operations going forward. In March 2007, we sold our Technology Business to Zeiss in the ACIS Sale for an aggregate purchase price of $12.5 million, consisting of $11.0 million in cash and up to an additional $1.5 million in contingent purchase price, which is payable in whole or in part (if at all) subject to satisfaction of certain post-closing conditions relating to intellectual property. These conditions may not be satisfied and, as a result, we may be paid only a portion or none of such contingent consideration. The ACIS Sale resulted in the transfer of our business of developing, manufacturing, and marketing the ACIS system. We also transferred our patent portfolio and other intellectual property of the Technology Business to Zeiss and while we have retained a license to certain patent rights, copyrights, and software, our use of those intellectual property rights is limited to the field of use specified in the license agreement. We also agreed not to compete with Zeiss in connection with the development, production and sale of imaging instruments for a period of 42 months following the closing date of the ACIS Sale and, as a result, our business will be restricted from engaging in those activities during that period. In connection with the ACIS Sale, we also made customary representations and warranties to Zeiss and we retained certain pre-closing liabilities relating to the Technology Business. As a result, we may have future indemnification obligations to Zeiss upon a breach of such representations and warranties, and in connection with third party claims relating thereto or relating to the liabilities that we retained. We may not successfully manage our growth, which may result in delays or unanticipated difficulties in implementing our business plan. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth. We expect to experience growth in the scope of our operations and services and the 20 Table of Contents number of our employees. If we grow significantly, such growth will place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational, and financial resources. To manage significant growth, we may need to expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial, and management systems, internal controls and infrastructure, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. Our future success is heavily dependent upon growth and acceptance of our future services. If we are unable to scale our business appropriately or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth and the introduction of new services, our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition may be harmed. The diagnostic laboratory market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards, and we may encounter difficulties keeping pace with changes in this market. The introduction of diagnostic tests embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing tests obsolete and unmarketable in short periods of time. We expect our competitors to introduce new products and services and enhancements to their existing products and services. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current tests, and to develop new tests, in a manner that keeps pace with emerging industry standards and achieves market acceptance. Our inability to accomplish any of these endeavors will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. We face substantial existing competition and potential new competition. The laboratory business is intensely competitive both in terms of price and service. This industry is dominated by several national independent laboratories, but includes many smaller niche and regional independent laboratories as well. Large commercial enterprises, including Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp), have substantially greater financial resources and may have larger research and development programs and more sales and marketing channels than we do, enabling them to potentially develop and market competing products and services. These enterprises may also be able to achieve greater economies of scale or establish contracts with payor groups on more favorable terms. Academic and regional medical institutions generally lack the advantages of the larger commercial laboratories but still compete with us on a limited basis. Smaller niche laboratories compete with us based on their reputation in specializing within a narrow test menu. Pricing of laboratory testing services is one of the significant factors often used by health care providers in selecting a laboratory. As a result of the laboratory industry undergoing significant consolidation, larger clinical laboratory providers are able to maximize cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing. This consolidation results in greater price competition. To meet such competition, we may be unable to improve our cost efficiencies sufficiently, if at all, and as a result, our operating results, cash flows, and our financial position could be negatively impacted. In addition, many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, sales and service resources than we do. Some of these entities also have more experience than we do in research and development, clinical trials, regulatory matters, manufacturing, marketing and sales. Furthermore, our current and developing competitors are actively conducting research and development in areas where we are also conducting such activities. The products and services these companies may develop could directly compete with our current or potential services, or may address other areas of diagnostic evaluation, making such companies compete more effectively against us. The diagnostic testing market is sensitive to the timing of product and service availability. A company that can quickly develop and achieve clinical study and regulatory success ahead of its competitors may hold a competitive advantage. 21 Table of Contents Our competitors might succeed in developing and commercializing technologies or services earlier and obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances from the FDA more rapidly than we are able to accomplish. In addition, our competitors also might develop more effective technologies or services that may render our technologies or services obsolete or non-competitive. If we are not able to effectively compete within our industry, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure in our information technology systems could disrupt our operations. Our success will depend, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. Information systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including laboratory testing, billing, customer service, logistics, management of medical data, and dissemination of test results. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, malicious human acts, and natural disasters. Moreover, despite reasonable security measures we have implemented, some of our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, and similar disruptive problems. In addition, we are currently in the process of implementing an Enterprise Resource Planning ("ERP") system, which we expect to go live in the second half of 2009. The success of our ERP conversion and related business risks that could arise in connection therewith are uncertain. We conduct business over the internet and because certain of our information technology systems are located at third-party web hosting providers, we cannot control the maintenance and operation of the data centers by such third parties. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in our information technology systems, leading to lost revenue, deterioration of customer confidence, and significant business disruption. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any problem that interrupts or delays our operations. If a catastrophe were to strike our facility, we would be unable to operate our business competitively. Our facility may be affected by catastrophes such as fires or earthquakes. Although we have installed certain power back-up systems, we may also be affected by sustained interruptions in electrical service. Earthquakes and fires are of particular significance to us because our laboratory facility is located in southern California, an earthquake and fire prone area. In the event our existing facility or equipment is affected by man-made or natural disasters, we may be unable to process our customers' samples in a timely manner and unable to operate our business in a commercially competitive manner. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. We believe that our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and our scientific and technical personnel, including the following individuals: •Ronald A. Andrews, our Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; •Michael J. Pellini, M.D., our President and Chief Operating Officer; •Raymond J. Land, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; 22 Table of Contents •Kenneth J. Bloom, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer; •Todd S. Barry, M.D., our Medical Director; and •David J. Daly, our Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations. The loss of any of our executive officers, senior managers, or key scientific or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, managers, scientific and technical personnel, or other employees. Furthermore, our anticipated growth and expansion will require the addition of highly skilled technical, management, financial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel or the loss of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, we may encounter difficulties in attracting a sufficient number of qualified California licensed laboratory scientists. In addition, our personnel may not be able to adequately fulfill their responsibilities and may not remain with us. Our revenue will be diminished if payors do not adequately cover or reimburse us for our services. There has been, and will likely continue to be, significant efforts by both federal and state agencies to reduce costs in government healthcare programs and to otherwise implement government control of healthcare costs. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States may continue to put pressure on the pricing of healthcare services. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of new applications or services. Governmental payors and private payors are scrutinizing new medical products and services. Such third-parties may not cover, or may limit coverage and resulting reimbursement for our services. Additionally, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any of our existing assays or assays we may discover and develop in the future. A substantial portion of the testing for which we bill our hospital and laboratory clients is ultimately paid by third-party payors. Any pricing pressure exerted by these third-party payors on our customers may, in turn, be exerted by our customers on us. If governmental payors, including their contracted administrators, and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and/or timely reimbursement for our services, our operating results, cash flows, or financial condition may decline. Our cash flows and financial condition may decline if payors do not reimburse us for our services in a timely manner. We depend on our payors to reimburse us for our services in timely manner. If our payors, particularly Medicare or Medicare's designated administrator, does not reimburse us in a timely manner, our cash flows and financial condition may decline. A majority of managed care organizations are using capitated payment contracts in an attempt to shift payment risks which may negatively impact our operating margins. Managed care providers typically contract with a limited number of diagnostic laboratories and then designate the laboratory or laboratories to be used for tests ordered by participating physicians. The majority of managed care testing is negotiated on a fee-for-service basis at a discount. Such discounts have historically resulted in price erosion and we expect that they could negatively impact our operating margins as we continue to offer laboratory services to managed care organizations. Third party billing is extremely complicated and could result in us incurring significant additional costs. Billing for laboratory services is extremely complicated. The customer is the party that refers the tests and the payor is the party that pays for the tests, and the two are not always the same. Depending on the billing arrangement and/or applicable law, we need to bill various payors, such as patients, 23 Table of Contents health insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, doctors and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. Health insurance companies and governmental payors also generally require complete and correct billing information within certain filing deadlines. Additionally, our billing relationships require us to undertake internal audits to evaluate compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures. Health insurance companies also impose routine external audits to evaluate payments made. Additional factors complicating billing are: •Pricing differences between our fee schedules and the reimbursement rates of the payors; •Disputes with payors as to which party is responsible for payment; and •Disparity in coverage and information requirements among various carriers. We incur significant additional costs as a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as billing and reimbursement for laboratory testing are subject to considerable and complex federal and state regulations. The additional costs we expect to incur as a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs include costs related to, among other factors: (1) complexity added to our billing processes; (2) training and education of our employees and customers; (3) implementing compliance procedures and oversight; (4) collections and legal costs; (5) challenging coverage and payment denials; and (6) providing patients with information regarding claims processing and services, such as advanced beneficiary notices. We previously outsourced responsibility for billing and collections for our laboratory services to a third-party. In order to improve the quality of our collection efforts and reduce processing costs, we established an internal billing and collection department during 2008, and staffed the department with experienced, knowledgeable, and licensed personnel. We, as a company, however, do not have previous experience in billing third parties or patients directly for our services, nor do we, as a company, have previous experience in collections activities. We continue to encounter difficulties in transitioning and maintaining responsibility for such functions in-house. To date, our in-house billing and collection department has not functioned as we had expected leading to certain delays in our billing and collection efforts. Consequently, our 2008 cash collections have not increased at the same rate as revenue has increased. We are in the process of substantially increasing our internal resources dedicated to our billing and collection efforts in response to these delays. If our in-house billing and collection department is not able to bill and collect for services on a timely and accurate basis, including the compliance with filing deadlines required by certain payors, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Our material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which existed as of December 31, 2007, have not been adequately remediated as of December 31, 2008. We have determined that we continue to have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. The financial misstatements resulting from our material weaknesses were corrected prior to the issuance of our 2008 Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. See Item 9A, Controls and Procedures for a discussion of our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Although we are undertaking steps to address these material weaknesses, the existence of a material weakness is an indication that there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in the current or any future period. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully implement our plans and controls, as described in Item 9A, to address these material weaknesses, or that the plans and controls, if implemented, will be successful in fully remediating these material weaknesses. In addition, we may in the future identify further material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date. 24 Table of Contents We are dependent on others for the development of products. The failure of our collaborations to successfully develop products could harm our business. Our business strategy includes entering into agreements with clinical and commercial collaborators and other third parties for the development, clinical evaluation and marketing of new products, including novel molecular tests. Research performed under a collaboration for which we receive or provide funding may not lead to the development of products in the timeframe expected, or at all. If these agreements are terminated earlier than expected, or if third parties do not perform their related obligations properly and on a timely basis, we may not be able to successfully develop new products as planned, or at all. We may acquire other businesses, products or technologies in order to remain competitive in our market and our business could be adversely affected as a result of any of these future acquisitions. We may make acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. If we identify any appropriate acquisition candidates, we may not be successful in negotiating acceptable terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or integrating the acquired business, products or technologies into our existing business and operations. Further, completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business will significantly divert management time and resources. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could harm our business. If we consummate any significant acquisitions using stock or other securities as consideration, our shareholders' equity could be significantly diluted. If we make any significant acquisitions using cash consideration, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. Acquisition financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Clinicians or patients using our services may sue us and our insurance may not sufficiently cover all claims brought against us, which will increase our expenses. The development, marketing, sale and performance of healthcare services expose us to the risk of litigation, including professional negligence. Damages assessed in connection with, and the costs of defending, any legal action could be substantial. We currently maintain numerous insurance policies, including a $5.0 million aggregate, $3.0 million per claim, medical professional liability insurance policy, with a deductible of $25 thousand. This policy contains customary exclusions, including exclusions relating to asbestos and biological contaminants. However, we may be faced with litigation claims which exceed our insurance coverage or are not covered under any of our insurance policies. In addition, litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business if it impacts our existing and potential customer relationships, creates adverse public relations, diverts management resources from the operation of the business, or hampers our ability to otherwise conduct our business. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we could be liable for damages. Our development and clinical pathology activities sometimes involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, hazardous materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to third parties from the use, storage, handling, or disposal of these materials. We currently maintain numerous casualty policies, including a $1.0 million per occurrence, $2.0 million aggregate general liability policy, a $10.0 million umbrella liability policy and a $5.0 million technology errors and omissions policy. We also have a property special risk policy to cover our contents, equipment and business interruption as well as a $10.0 million policy for the perils of earthquake and flood. These policies have deductibles ranging from $5 thousand to $50 thousand and contain customary exclusions. However, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. Additionally, we are subject 25 Table of Contents on an ongoing basis to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is significant and could negatively affect our operations, cash flows, and financial condition if these costs increase substantially. Any breakdown in the protection of our licensed proprietary technology, or any determination that our licensed proprietary technology infringes on the rights of others, could materially affect our business. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to protect and maintain our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. However, obtaining, defending and enforcing intellectual property rights involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be able to effectively maintain our technologies as unpatented trade secrets or otherwise obtain meaningful protection for our proprietary technology. Moreover, third parties may infringe, design around, or improve upon our proprietary technology or rights. If the use of our technologies conflicts with the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities and we may be unable to commercialize products based on these technologies in a profitable manner, if at all. Our competitors and other third parties may have or acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. If they do so, we may be required to alter our technologies, pay licensing fees or cease activities. Additionally, if our technologies conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal action against us or our licensees, suppliers, customers, or collaborators, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we might have to obtain a royalty or licensing arrangement in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. A required license or royalty under the related patent or other intellectual property may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be unaware of issued patents that our technologies infringe upon. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents upon which our technologies may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware upon which our technologies may infringe. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or obtain patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. If third parties file oppositions in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend filed foreign patent applications. Additionally, we may have to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents or our pending applications. If a third party claims that we infringe upon its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: •We may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if a claim is without merit; •We may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement, including possible treble damages for allegations of willful infringement, if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a competitor's patent; •A court may prohibit us from using a technology or providing a service without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our intellectual property; and 26 Table of Contents •We may have to redesign our services so that they do not infringe upon others' patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. If any of these events occurs, our business, results of operation, cash flows, and financial condition will likely suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Risks Related to Regulation of Our Industry If we are not able to obtain all of the regulatory approvals and clearances required to conduct clinical trials and/or commercialize our services and underlying diagnostic applications, our business would be significantly harmed. The clinical laboratory testing industry is highly regulated. Areas of the regulatory environment that may affect our ability to conduct business include, without limitation: •Federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment and/or regulatory agencies enforcing those laws and regulations; •Federal and state laboratory anti-mark-up laws; •Federal and state anti-kickback laws; •Federal and state false claims laws; •Federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal physician anti-self-referral law, or the Stark Law; •Coverage and reimbursement levels by Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental payors and private insurers; •Restrictions on reimbursements for our services; •Federal and state laws governing laboratory testing, including CLIA; •Federal and state laws governing the development, use and distribution of diagnostic medical tests known as "home brews"; •HIPAA; •Federal and state regulation of privacy, security and electronic transactions; •State laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; •State laws regarding prohibitions on fee-splitting; •Federal, state and local laws governing the handling and disposal of medical and hazardous waste; and •Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") rules and regulations. The above noted laws and regulations are extremely complex and in many instances, there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of such laws and regulations. While we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a significant change in any of these laws may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety regulation. We are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as to the safety and health of laboratory employees. In addition, the OSHA has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. These regulations, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations, and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. In addition, the federally-enacted Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act requires, among other things, that we include in our safety programs the evaluation and use of engineering controls such as safety needles if found to be effective at reducing the risk of needlestick injuries in the workplace. We are subject to federal and state laws governing the financial relationship among healthcare providers, including Medicare & Medicaid laws, and our failure to comply with these laws could result in significant penalties and other adverse consequences. Reimbursement from Medicare accounted for approximately 34.0% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Medicare program is administered by CMS which, like the states that administer their respective state Medicaid programs, imposes extensive and detailed requirements on diagnostic services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims and how we provide our specialized diagnostic services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor rules could result in our inability to participate in a governmental payor program, our returning of funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or limitations on the operational function of our laboratory. If we were unable to receive reimbursement under a governmental payor program, a substantial portion of our revenues would be lost, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the privacy, security and transmission of medical information, and our failure to comply could subject us to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. Governmental laws and regulations affect the privacy, security and transmission of medical information. Such laws and regulations restrict our ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. The privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, we also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. Federal law and the laws of many states generally specify who may practice medicine and limit the scope of relationships between medical practitioners and other parties. Because of the unique structure of the relationships between CPS and us, as described in Item 1, "Clarient Pathology Services, Inc.," many aspects of our business operations have not been the subject of state or federal regulatory interpretation. A review of our business by the courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that our operations do not comply with applicable law. In 28 Table of Contents addition, the health care regulatory environment may change in a manner that restricts our existing operations or future expansion. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock, which may cause you to rely on capital appreciation for a return on your investment. We currently intend to retain future earnings for use in our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, we are restricted from paying a dividend under our credit facilities without our lenders' consent. Accordingly, one will have to rely on capital appreciation, if any, to earn a return on their investment in our common stock. If we raise additional funds you may suffer dilution or subordination and we may grant rights in our technology or products to third parties. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders could result, and new investors could have rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our developed technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay or may be unable to continue to develop our products. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and in the future is likely to be, highly volatile. These fluctuations could result in substantial losses for investors. Our stock price may fluctuate for a number of reasons including, but not limited to: •Media reports and publications and announcements about cancer or diagnostic products or treatments or new innovations; •Developments in or disputes regarding patent or other proprietary rights; •Announcements regarding clinical trials or other technological or competitive developments by us and our competitors; •The hiring and retention of key personnel; •Announcements concerning our competitors or the biotechnology industry in general; •Regulatory developments regarding us or our competitors; •Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies concerning our products or competitors' products; •Changes in the current structure of the healthcare financing and payment systems; •Stock market price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for medical products and high technology companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies; and 29 Table of Contents •General economic, political and market conditions. In addition, stock markets have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices for diagnostic companies is affected by these market fluctuations and such effects have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its stock. This type of litigation could be brought against us in the future, which could result in substantial expense and damage awards and divert management's attention from running our business. With the advent of the internet, new avenues have been created for the dissemination of information. We do not have control over the information that is distributed and discussed on electronic bulletin boards and investment chat rooms. The motives of the people or organizations that distribute such information may not be in our best interest or in the interest of our shareholders. This, in addition to other forms of investment information, including newsletters and research publications, could result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could result in a decline in the market price of our stock. Some of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares which they are currently able to sell in the public market, or which they will be able to sell under registration statements that may be declared effective by the SEC, and our employees hold options to purchase a significant number of shares and/or have been issued shares of restricted stock that are covered by registration statements on Form S-8. If our common stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. Safeguard owns a majority of our outstanding common stock and has rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering shares owned by it and to include its shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Furthermore, if we file a registration statement and include shares held by Safeguard pursuant to the exercise of its registrations rights, the sale of those shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. We are controlled by a single existing stockholder, whose interests may differ from other stockholders' interests and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Safeguard beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, Safeguard will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Safeguard has the ability to elect all of our directors (although Safeguard has agreed that our board of directors will have a majority of directors not specifically designated by Safeguard). Safeguard could dictate the management of our business and affairs. The interests of Safeguard may differ from other stockholders' interests. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent, or deter a change in control and could deprive other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our business. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. 30 Table of Contents We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and other arrangements which could inhibit a change in control and prevent a stockholder from receiving a favorable price for his or her shares. Our board of directors has adopted a stockholders' rights plan providing for discounted purchase rights to its stockholders upon specified acquisitions of our common stock. The exercise of these rights is intended to inhibit specific changes of control of our company. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by our board of directors. These provisions and others could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for members of our board of directors to be replaced, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, one may lose an opportunity to realize a premium on their shares of common stock or the market price of our common stock could decline. If we do not maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, or any other national securities exchange, our common stock could be delisted and such delisting may negatively affect our business and the liquidity and price of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We are required to satisfy various listing maintenance standards for our common stock to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet such standards, our common stock would likely be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and if we are unable to comply with the listing requirements of any other national securities exchange, our common stock would be traded on an over-the-counter market such as the OTC Bulletin Board or the "Pink Sheets." The over-the-counter markets are generally considered to be less efficient markets and having our common stock quoted on an over-the-counter market would seriously impair the liquidity of our common stock and limit our potential to raise future capital through the sale of our common stock, which could materially harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage for our common stock, may cease coverage for our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 