Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the risk factors that Reis’s management believes are material to Reis at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing Reis and there may be additional matters that Reis is unaware of or that Reis currently considers immaterial. Any or all of these could adversely affect Reis’s business, results of operations, profitability, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to the Reis Services Business and the Information Services Industry Generally A failure to attract and retain subscribers could harm our business. We must acquire new subscribers and expand our business with our current subscribers in order to grow our business. Our ability to grow our business will be adversely impacted to the extent that current subscribers reduce or discontinue the use of our products and web sites, including Reis SE, Mobiuss and ReisReports, or if we are unable to locate and have prospects subscribe to Reis SE, Mobiuss and ReisReports. This may occur due to budgetary constraints, which was particularly true during the height of the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, or if our product offering is less competitive with those of other companies in our industry. Prior to 2008, our overall trailing twelve month renewal rates were above 94% for many years. In the latter part of 2008 and in 2009, we experienced an overall decrease in the total number of our subscribers and a reduction in our trailing twelve month renewal rates. The overall trailing twelve month renewal rate fell to a low of 83% at September 30, 2009. The trailing twelve month renewal rate at December 31, 2013 was 91%. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing to identify and sell to additional subscribers, expand business from our existing subscribers or either maintain our existing renewal rates or increase our renewal rates to pre-recession levels. Our revenues are concentrated among certain key subscribers. We had 994 and 844 enterprise subscribers to Reis SE at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The largest individual subscriber accounted for 3.4% and 4.2% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If we were to experience a reduction or loss of business from a number of our largest subscribers, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, depending on the significance of the loss, our profitability, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, although we generally impose contractual restrictions limiting our immediate exposure to revenue reductions due to mergers and consolidations among our subscribers and potential subscribers and our pricing model is based on actual and projected usage, we may be impacted by 10 Table of Contents consolidation among our subscribers and potential subscribers, as a result of their reduced usage on a combined basis or greater bargaining power. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The market for information, analytics and decision support services in general is highly competitive and rapidly changing. We compete with (1) local companies that offer commercial real estate research with respect to their specific geographic areas and (2) national companies that offer national commercial real estate research. Specifically, certain of our products compete with those of CoStar (including both its Property and Portfolio Research and LoopNet businesses), Real Capital Analytics, Xceligent, and CBRE Econometric Realty Advisors. Some of our competitors, either alone or with affiliated entities, may have greater name recognition, larger subscriber bases or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we have. In addition, some competitors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, make more attractive offers to potential employees and business partners or respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in subscriber requirements. Competition could negatively impact our revenues, profitability, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be able to maintain Reis Services’s historical rates of growth in revenues or EBITDA. Historically, Reis Services has experienced revenue and EBITDA growth (EBITDA is earnings (defined as income (loss) from continuing operations), before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). Reis Services’s annual revenue grew by 14.9% from 2011 to 2012 and by 11.2% from 2012 to 2013. On a pro forma basis, revenue grew 12.8% from 2011 to 2012 and 13.2% from 2012 to 2013 after consideration of certain pro forma items in 2012, as more fully described in Item 7. The fourth quarter and annual 2013 revenue was the highest quarterly and annual revenue in the Company’s history. It also marks the 15th consecutive quarterly increase in revenue over the prior year’s corresponding quarter. There can be no assurance that our revenues will continue to grow at or in excess of our recent performance pace, on a consecutive quarter and annual basis, on a year over year basis, or at all in the future. Reis Services’s annual EBITDA grew by 17.8% from 2011 to 2012 and by 12.1% from 2012 to 2013. On a pro forma basis, EBITDA grew 12.5% from 2011 to 2012 and 17.3% from 2012 to 2013, after consideration of certain pro forma items in 2012, as more fully described in Item 7. Expenses will increase in the future, including expenses for content maintenance, sales, marketing and product development, with the expectation that these expense increases will drive future revenue growth; however, such additional expenses could result in reduced margins or profitability, or negatively impact liquidity in the near term, and if not successful, may negatively impact margins, profitability and liquidity in the long term. There can be no assurance that our EBITDA will continue to grow at or in excess of our recent performance pace, on a consecutive quarter and annual basis, on a year over year basis, or at all in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or expand our EBITDA or EBITDA margins for the Reis Services segment, or on a consolidated basis, in the future. EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. See Item 7 for a reconciliation of EBITDA to the most comparable GAAP measure, income from continuing operations. If our growth rates decline, or if revenue and/or EBITDA decline, investors’ perceptions of our business may be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decline. We must continue to obtain information from multiple sources. The quality of our databases supporting our products depends substantially on information provided by a large number of sources, including commercial real estate brokers, agents and property owners, as well as from public sources, such as tax assessors, deed recorders, planning and zoning boards, corporate web sites, the business and trade press, and selected third party vendors of business information. If we are unable to collect information from a significant number of these sources, our products could be negatively affected, potentially resulting in an increase in subscriber cancellations and a failure to acquire new subscribers. Our revenues, expenses and operating results could be affected by general economic conditions or by changes in commercial real estate markets, which are cyclical. Our business and the commercial real estate industry are sensitive to trends in the general economy and trends in local, regional and national commercial real estate markets, which are unpredictable. Therefore, operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader commercial real estate industry, may be subject to significant fluctuations. A number of factors could have an effect on our revenues, expenses, profitability or cash flows, such as: • periods of economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or locally; 11 Table of Contents • budgetary and financial burdens on our subscribers and potential subscribers; • mergers, acquisitions, failures or government takeovers of our subscribers and potential subscribers; • governmental intervention in economic policy; • inflation or deflation; • flows of capital into or out of real estate investment in the U.S. or various regions of the U.S.; • changes to the manner in which transactions are financed; • changes in the risk profile of real estate assets and collateral for financings; • changes or consolidation in the real estate industry; • changes in levels of rent, absorption, leasing activity or appreciation of asset values; • changing interest rates; • changes in tax and accounting policies; • changes in the cost and availability of capital; • lower consumer confidence; • wage and salary levels; • war, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; or • the public perception that any of these conditions may occur. If our subscribers choose not to use Reis SE, Mobiuss or ReisReports because of any of these factors, and we are not successful in attracting new subscribers, our revenues, expenses, EBITDA, margins, profitability, cash flows or stock price could be negatively affected. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new or upgraded services or products. To continue to attract new subscribers, we may need to introduce new products or services. We may choose to develop new products and services independently or to license or otherwise integrate content and data from or with third parties. The introduction of new products and services could impose costs on our business and require the use of resources, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to access new content and technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If subscribers or potential subscribers do not recognize the value of our new services or enhancements to existing services, operating results could be negatively affected. We may incur significant costs and experience difficulties in developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products. Efforts to enhance and improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing and newly developed products and services have inherent risks, and we may not be able to manage these product developments and enhancements successfully or in a cost effective manner. If we are unable to continue to develop new or upgraded services or products, then subscribers may choose not to use our products and services. Our growth and results of operations would be negatively impacted if we were unable to successfully market and sell any new services or upgrades. Our Mobiuss product is dependent upon the activities of another organization over which we do not exercise control. Mobiuss has been developed with, and is being co-marketed with, Opera Solutions, an unrelated third party. Opera Solutions is a leader in “Big Data” science, predictive analytics and technological innovations. The Mobiuss product is a combination of Reis’s commercial real estate market information and forecasts with Opera Solutions’s risk analytics and web-based technologies. If Opera Solutions fails to devote the time, capital and resources to the continuing development and support of the Mobiuss product, and if Reis cannot either replace Opera Solutions with another party or perform the functions for itself, sales of Mobiuss to new subscribers or the renewal of 12 Table of Contents subscriptions to existing Mobiuss subscribers could be negatively impacted resulting in a reduction in revenue, and negatively impacting our EBITDA, margins, profitability and cash flows. Our ReisReports and Mobiuss offerings may not be successful or may not result in increased revenues, which may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position. We expect to continue to expand our ReisReports and Mobiuss product offerings during 2014 which could result in increased expenses. If our costs for these efforts exceed our expectations, our profitability and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, if we incur additional costs to expand these products and we are not successful in marketing or selling these expanded services, this could have an adverse effect on our financial position by increasing our expenses without increasing our revenues, impacting margins, profitability and cash flows. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if subscribers are reluctant to use our products because of privacy concerns, we might experience a loss in profitability. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of use on our web sites, as part of our subscriber registration process, we collect and use personally identifiable information. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our web sites, including theft, alteration, deletion or misappropriation of information, security breaches, malevolent activities by computer hackers, viruses (or anything else that may contaminate or cause destruction to our systems), or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our web sites to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. Under the laws of certain jurisdictions, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal subscriber data has been stolen, we may be required to inform any subscribers whose data was stolen and we may be subjected to liability, which could harm our reputation and business. Certain state laws require businesses that maintain personal information in electronic databases to implement reasonable measures to keep that information secure. Various states have enacted different and sometimes contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. We may face adverse publicity if we are not able to comply with laws requiring us to take adequate measures to assure the confidentiality of the personally identifiable information that our subscribers have given to us. This could result in a loss of customers and revenue. Even if we are in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we still may face liability or disruption to our business if we do not comply in every instance or if the security of the customer data that we collect is compromised, regardless of whether our practices comply or not. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to maintain the integrity and reliability of our data and forecasts. Our success depends on our subscribers’ confidence in the comprehensiveness, accuracy, and reliability of the data and forecasts we provide. We believe that we take adequate precautions to safeguard the completeness and accuracy of our data and that the information is generally current, comprehensive and accurate. Nevertheless, we depend to a large degree on information provided to us on a voluntary basis by third parties, including commercial real estate brokers, agents and property owners. Our Mobiuss product involves the delivery of portfolio analytics derived from the combined expertise of Reis and Opera Solutions, a third party; we are not in control of Opera Solutions’s technology, intellectual property or economic or financial models in connection with the delivery of its portion of the Mobiuss product. Further, data is susceptible to electronic malfeasance including theft, alteration, deletion, viruses and malevolent activities by computer hackers. In addition, our reports and conference calls for the benefit of our subscribers may contain forecasts with respect to real estate trends. Although our contracts contain language limiting our liability if any of our data or forecasts are inaccurate or are later not borne out by actual results, for any of the above reasons, demand for our services could diminish and we may be exposed to lawsuits claiming damages resulting from inaccurate data and forecasts. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership or use of intellectual property. Our business depends in large measure on the intellectual property utilized in our methodologies, software and database. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, database protection and copyright laws, registered domain names, non-disclosure, non-competition and other contractual provisions with employees, vendors and consultants, work-for-hire provisions, restrictive license agreements with subscribers and technical security measures to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights. However, we do not hold Federal registrations covering all of our trademarks and copyrightable materials. We also do not own any patents or patent applications. In addition, current law may not adequately protect our databases and data, and legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in online businesses are uncertain and evolving. Our business could be significantly harmed if we do not continue to protect our intellectual property. 13 Table of Contents In addition, notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may misappropriate our data through web site scraping, robots or other means and aggregate this data on their web sites with data from other companies. In addition, copycat web sites may misappropriate data on our web site and attempt to imitate the functionality of our web site. We may not be able to detect all such web sites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to stop their operations. Available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the misappropriation of our data, and any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial resources. We also could be significantly harmed if claims are made against us alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle, and could require the expenditure of substantial amounts of time and/or money. If our web sites or other services experience system failures or malicious attacks, our subscribers may be dissatisfied and our operations could be impaired. Our business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our web sites. Problems with the web sites could result in reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, the software underlying our services is complex and may contain undetected errors. Despite testing, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in our software. Any errors could result in adverse publicity, impaired use of our services, loss of revenues, cost increases or legal claims by subscribers. Additionally, our services substantially depend on systems provided by third party vendors and service providers, over whom we have little or no control. Interruptions in service could result from the failure of data providers, telecommunications providers, or other third parties, including due to break-ins, unauthorized access, computer viruses, vandalism, fire, floods, severe weather, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, acts of war, and other similarly damaging events. We depend on these third party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third party providers or any failure of third party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our internal network infrastructure could be disrupted or penetrated, which could materially impact both our ability to provide services and subscribers’ confidence in our services. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems. While we believe that our systems, most of which are redundant and independent systems in separate locations, are adequate to support our operations, our systems may be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, computer viruses, vandalism, fire, floods, severe weather, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, acts of war, and other similarly damaging events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, floods, and general business interruptions, the amount and types of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, any damage or disruption could materially impair or block our ability to provide services, which could significantly impact our business. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Although we have not experienced any security breaches to date and we maintain a firewall, a hacker who penetrates network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to further expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or anything else manifesting contaminating or destructive properties could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Any of these incidents could materially impact our ability to provide services as well as materially impact the confidence of our subscribers in our services, either of which could significantly and adversely impact our business. We may be subject to regulation of advertising and subscriber solicitation or other newly-adopted laws and regulations. As part of our subscriber registration process, our subscribers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. In addition, we use email and other online marketing techniques to reach potential subscribers, particularly for our Reis SE and ReisReports products. We may be subject to restrictions on our ability to communicate through email and phone calls, even with existing subscribers. The U.S. and other jurisdictions have proposed or adopted laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or spam. These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations. In addition, laws or regulations that could harm our business could be adopted, or reinterpreted so as to affect our activities, by Federal and state governments, regulatory agencies or foreign governments or agencies. This could include, for example, laws regulating the source, content or form of information provided on our web sites, the information or services we provide, or our transmissions over the Internet. Violations or new interpretations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, damage our reputation, increase our costs or make our services less attractive. 14 Table of Contents Litigation or governmental investigations in which we become involved may significantly increase our expenses and adversely affect our stock price. From time to time, we are a party to various lawsuits. Any lawsuits, threatened lawsuits or governmental investigations in which we are involved could cost us a significant amount of time and money to defend, could distract management’s attention away from operating our business, could result in negative publicity and could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, if any claims are determined against us or if a settlement requires us to pay a large monetary amount or take other action that materially restricts our operations, our profitability could be significantly reduced and our financial position could be adversely affected. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover any losses we incur in connection with litigation claims. Reis develops and maintains three highly curated, proprietary databases of U.S. commercial real estate. On an ongoing basis Reis surveys and receives data from building owners, leasing agents and managers, as well as from multiple data sources. None-the-less, we may be subject to legal liability for collecting, displaying or distributing information. We may also be subject to claims based on the content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites or information on our website supplied by third parties. We could also be subject to claims that the collection or provision of certain information breached laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against any claims. Our revenue, expenses, operating results, margins, financial condition and cash flows are subject to fluctuations. Our revenues, expenses, operating results, margins, financial condition and cash flows have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could negatively affect our results of operations during that period and future periods. Our revenues, expenses, operating results, margins, financial condition and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors including, among others, those described below: • our ability to obtain new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; • changes in our marketing or other corporate strategies; • our introduction of new products and services or changes to existing products and services; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • changes in the volume, timing or price of custom data deliverables; • costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies; • competition; • changes or consolidation in the real estate industry; • changes in subscriber budgets; • interest rate fluctuations; • inflation; • changes in accounting policies or practices; and • other factors outside of our control. Our business depends on retaining and attracting capable management and operating personnel. The implementation and development of Reis’s business plan require the skills and knowledge of our senior executives, as well as our sales, technology and operational personnel. Reis may not be able to offset the impact of the loss of the services of these individuals or other key officers or employees because our business requires skilled management, as well as technical, product and technology, and 15 Table of Contents sales and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in the information industry, and the loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees, could have a material adverse impact on Reis. Although Reis uses various incentive programs to retain and attract key personnel, these measures may not be sufficient to either attract or retain, as applicable, the personnel required to ensure our success. In addition, grants and issuances pursuant to our equity incentive plans may result in dilution to Reis stockholders. The loss of one or more of our senior executives, or our sales, technology or operational personnel, could have a material adverse impact on the continuing operations of Reis and could adversely affect the market price of Reis’s common stock. We may be subject to tax audits or other procedures concerning our tax collection policies. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in states other than New York. However, one or more states (other than New York) may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, such as Reis, which engage in online commerce. A successful assertion that we should collect sales, use or other taxes on the sale of products or services into these states could subject us to liability for current or past taxes due, and could increase the effective price of our products and services, which could harm our business. If we are not able to successfully identify or integrate future acquisitions, our business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and future acquisitions may divert management’s attention and consume significant resources. We may in the future attempt to further expand our markets and services in part through acquisitions of complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that future acquisitions, if any, will be successful. The successful execution of any future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including the potential unavailability of financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions, the potential inability to identify all of the risks and liabilities inherent in a target company, the diversion of management’s attention from the operations of our business and strain on our existing personnel. In addition, any acquired businesses would generally be subject to the other risks described under this “Risks Related to the Reis Services Business and the Information Services Industry Generally” section. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. Integration of acquired entities can involve significant difficulties, such as strain on our personnel, systems and operational and managerial controls and procedures, the need to modify systems or add management resources, possible adverse short-term effects on cash flows or operating results, diversion of management’s attention from the operations of our business and failure to obtain and retain key personnel of an acquired business. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by incurring additional debt, our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely impacted. If we finance or otherwise complete acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders’ ownership may be diluted. Risks Related to Our Discontinued Operations (Residential Development Activities) We may be exposed to risks associated with our prior development, construction and sale of residential units, and our prior ownership of real property generally. Reis and certain of its subsidiaries were exposed to significant losses and other expenses associated with construction defect litigation at its Colorado condominium project during 2012. Reis may be exposed in the future to other claims associated with its discontinued residential development activities, including its involvement in the development, construction and sale of single family homes or lots, or claims related to environmental remediation, dissatisfaction by homeowners and homeowners’ associations with the construction of homes and amenities by us and/or our developer partners, or other matters, which could result in litigation costs, remediation costs, warranty expenses or settlement costs which could be material to Reis’s reported discontinued operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Note 10 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for information relating to the Company’s Gold Peak condominium project in Colorado. We may be unable to recover any cash from insurance companies or other potentially responsible parties. We continue to evaluate the cost and benefits of pursuing cash recovery efforts from insurance providers, subcontractors, other professionals, our partners or other potentially responsible parties related to the Gold Peak project. During 2012, Reis and certain of its subsidiaries settled with, and used $17,000,000 of cash on the balance sheet to pay the Gold Peak homeowners association. No portion 16 Table of Contents of the $17,000,000 was provided by any of the other defendants, potentially responsible parties or insurance companies. Our recovery efforts may include litigation, mediation, settlement or trials. Recovery efforts through December 31, 2013 resulted in cash collections of $80,000 and $712,500 in 2013 and 2012, respectively. During 2014, we may incur additional legal and expert costs and allocate resources to our recovery efforts, which may not result in any cash recoveries. The amount of incurred costs, without any cash recoveries, could negatively affect our discontinued operating results, financial condition and cash flow. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock, Our Capital Structure and Reis Generally Our common stock is thinly traded; there may continue to be little or no liquidity for shares of our common stock; and our Board of Directors may take actions with which you disagree, which affect the trading price of our common stock. Historically, our common stock has been thinly traded, and an active trading market for our common stock may not develop. In the absence of an active public trading market, investors trying to sell their shares may find it difficult to find buyers for their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Our Board of Directors, or Board, may authorize transactions with respect to our common stock. These transactions may include a reverse stock split or odd-lot or other share repurchase programs, or the declaration of a one-time or recurring dividend. Between December 2008 and August 2011, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 of our common stock, of which approximately $551,000 remained available for repurchase as of December 31, 2013. Cumulatively, the Company has repurchased approximately 8.1% of the common shares outstanding at the time of the Board’s initial authorization in December 2008. All decisions regarding any such authorizations to repurchase stock will be at the discretion of our Board and will be evaluated from time to time in light of the Company’s liquidity and anticipated cash needs, the price per share of our common stock, the number of shares of our common stock outstanding, applicable NASDAQ rules, applicable law and other factors deemed relevant. If we effect any such repurchases, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected due to the reduced number of shares that would be outstanding. In addition, a share repurchase program requires the payment of cash by Reis to stockholders, which could adversely impact our liquidity. If we effect a reverse stock split, there can be no assurance that the market price per share of our common stock after the reverse stock split will rise or remain constant in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding before the reverse stock split. If the Board were to declare a dividend, the cash used in such a dividend could adversely impact our liquidity; in addition, the resulting change in the investment profile of the Company could cause certain stockholders to purchase and/or sell our stock, potentially adversely affecting the market for and the market price of our common stock. Certain of our executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock, have significant control of our management and affairs, and may favor transactions or policies with which you disagree. The named executive officers and directors of Reis in the aggregate beneficially owned approximately 24.9% of Reis’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013. Of this total, Lloyd Lynford and Jonathan Garfield, each of whom is a founder, an executive officer and a director of the Company, beneficially owned 12.9% and 9.0%, respectively. A significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of a company’s common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies where management holds a significant percentage of the voting power. A concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving Reis, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a change of control might be seen as beneficial to other Reis stockholders. Our governing documents and Maryland law contain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Reis’s articles of amendment and restatement and bylaws contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of Reis by merger, tender offer, proxy contest, or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our Board. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of Reis even if a change of control might be seen as beneficial by other Reis stockholders. This could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of Reis’s common stock. Reis’s governing documents: • provide for a classified board of directors, which could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control; • authorize the issuance of blank check stock that could be issued by Reis’s Board to thwart a takeover attempt; 17 Table of Contents • provide that directors can only be removed for cause pursuant to a vote of two thirds of the shares entitled to vote for the election of directors; and • contain advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares or an affiliate thereof are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless waived by the then existing board. Our Board may approve certain transactions or exempt certain interested stockholders at any time prior to a party becoming an interested stockholder. At December 31, 2013 and through the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, the Board has not approved any exemptions from the Maryland statute. Increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense. In October 2012, Reis Services, as borrower, and the Company, as guarantor, entered into a loan and security agreement with Capital One, National Association, as lender, for a $10,000,000 revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolver. The Revolver has a three year term expiring on October 16, 2015, and any borrowings bear interest at a rate of LIBOR + 2.00% per annum (for LIBOR loans) or the greater of 1.00% or the bank’s prime rate minus 0.50% per annum (for base rate loans) and is subject to an unused facility fee of 0.25% per annum. As of December 31, 2013, we had no debt outstanding; however, we may borrow amounts under the Revolver in the future. There have been instances in the past when we purchased interest rate caps on our outstanding debt to limit our exposure to significant interest rate increases. In deciding whether to purchase interest rate caps or other hedging instruments, we may weigh the value of protection against significant increases in interest rates against the cost of such instruments. The Company does not have any interest rate caps or other hedging instruments at December 31, 2013. Therefore, if interest rates increase, our interest costs on any outstanding borrowings would also increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Revolver contains covenants that restrict our operations, which may negatively affect our ability to operate our business and limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Declines in our operational performance could cause financial covenants to be violated on our outstanding debt. Provisions in the Revolver may impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • amend its organizational documents; • pay dividends and make distributions; • redeem or repurchase outstanding equity; • make certain investments or enter into transactions to acquire assets or businesses; • create certain liens; • enter into transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • undergo a change of control; and • make certain fundamental changes, including engaging in a merger or consolidation. The Revolver also contains other customary covenants, including covenants which require the Company to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. If the Company were not able to comply with these covenants in the future, the failure to do so may result in the declaration of an event of default. Furthermore, certain events, such as the voluntary or involuntary filing by Reis under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law (which is not stayed or dismissed within certain time periods), will cause an event of default. In addition, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the Revolver, which would require the Company to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, the Company may not 18 Table of Contents be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of this indebtedness is accelerated, Reis Services or Reis may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, the Revolver is secured by Reis Services’s assets and, therefore, these assets would not be available to secure additional credit. Our ability to use our net tax operating loss carryforwards will be subject to limitation and the generation of taxable income in the future. The Company has aggregate net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards aggregating approximately $66,006,000 at December 31, 2013. These NOLs include NOLs generated subsequent to the Merger, losses from Private Reis prior to the Merger, losses obtained from the Company’s 1998 merger with Value Property Trust (VLP) and the Company’s operating losses prior to the Merger. Approximately $25,158,000 of these Federal NOLs are subject to an annual limitation of $2,779,000 per year, whereas the remaining balance of approximately $40,848,000 is not subject to such a limitation. All of these losses may be utilized against consolidated Federal taxable income in the future. The actual ability to utilize the tax benefit of any existing NOLs will be dependent upon the Company’s ability to generate taxable income in the future, if at all. Under applicable tax regulations, these NOLs may not be usable in New York for state and city purposes in years that these NOLs are used for Federal purposes. This lack of symmetry between taxing authorities regarding the timing and usability of NOLs could result in paying taxes on income in New York State and New York City in 2014 and possibly 2015. Federal, state and local tax audits may result in the payment of additional taxes, penalties and interest. Our tax returns are subject to audit by Federal, state and local tax authorities. Currently, Reis’s Federal tax returns are open (subject to audit) for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Reis’s and a subsidiary’s New York State tax returns are under audit for the years 2004 to 2006 and are open, as a result of signed waiver, for the years 2007 to 2012. Reis’s and a subsidiary’s New York City tax returns are also open for the years 2004 to 2012 as well. The tax returns of another Reis subsidiary are open in Colorado for 2009 to 2012. All other tax years are closed. However, prior year tax returns giving rise to an NOL may be reviewable in connection with the audit of a later tax year when such loss is utilized. The ultimate resolution of the current audits and open tax years for New York State and New York City, as well as open tax years for Federal purposes, could result in the payment of additional tax, penalties and interest, which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 