ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements - -------------------------- This report and other reports and statements issued by the Company and its officers from time to time contain certain "forward-looking statements." Words such as "may," "will," "should," "likely," "could," "seek," "believe," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "intend," "strategy," "design to," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements about the Company's future plans, objectives, performance, intentions and expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties including, but are not limited to, those set forth below under "Factors That May Affect Future Results." Such risks and uncertainties could cause the Company's actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those described in or implied by the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date they are made. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT UPON GENERAL ECONOMIC AND OTHER BUSINESS CONDITIONS AND OTHER GENERAL CONDITIONS. The demand for the Company's services in all segments, both domestically and in its foreign operations, is dependent upon general economic conditions. The Company's business tends to suffer during economic downturns, such as the current recession. The recent slowing of the economy has already adversely affected the Company's revenue and operating profit and the continuation of the current recession could further adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating profit. While the Company attempts to manage its costs, including its personnel, in relation to its business volumes, these efforts may not be successful and the timing of these efforts and associated costs may adversely affect the Company's results. In the Staffing Services segment, the weakened economy results in decreased demand for temporary and permanent personnel. When economic activity slows down, many of the Company's customers reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees resulting in decreased demand for contingent workers. A number of customers have already announced reduction in workforce including contingent labor. There is also less need for contingent workers by all customers and potential customers, who are less inclined to add to their costs. Since employees are also reluctant to risk changing employers, there are fewer openings available and therefore reduced activity in permanent placements as well. In addition, while in many fields there are ample applicants for available positions, variations in the rate of unemployment and higher wages sought by temporary workers in certain technical fields which still experience labor shortages could affect the Company's ability to meet its customers' demands in these fields and adversely affect the Company's profit margins. The volume of business in some of the Company's managed services programs may be reduced, rendering it uneconomical to continue the program. In addition, the services of large numbers of associate vendors are required in some managed services program; the current recession may cause some of these associate vendors to reduce or discontinue operations, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to manage these programs. Increases in workers' compensation and health costs and unemployment insurance, other payroll taxes, business taxes and other employee related expenses will also adversely impact profit margins. In addition, in the past few years major United States companies, many of which are customers of the Company, have increasingly outsourced business to foreign countries with lower labor rates, less costly employee benefit requirements and fewer regulations than in the United States. There has been and could be a further adverse effect on the Company if customers and potential customers continue to move manufacturing and servicing operations off-shore, reducing their need for temporary and permanent workers within the United States. It is also important for the Company to diversify its pool of available temporary personnel to offer greater support to the service sector of the economy and other businesses that have more difficulty in moving off-shore, as well as expanding its regional and local customer base which generally affords higher margin opportunities, which the Company may not be able to do successfully. -13- In the Information Technology Solutions portion of the Staffing Services segment, the Company may assume project responsibility and/or provide a deliverable, which carry potentially greater liabilities than other businesses within this segment. Customer use of the Company's Telecommunications Services segment is similarly affected by the weakened economy in that some of the Company's customers curtail capital expenditures and some reduce their use of outside services in order to provide work to their in-house departments or to control costs. Actions by major long-distance telephone companies to reduce marketing of local residential service and consolidation in the telecommunications industry could also negatively impact both sales and margins of the segment. In addition, the Company has been and may be adversely affected if it competes from the Company's United States-based operations against competitors based in lower-cost countries. Although the Company has expanded its operations to serve existing customers in some foreign countries, and has established subsidiaries in some foreign countries, there can be no assurance that this effort will be successful or that the Company can successfully compete with competitors based overseas or who have well-established foreign operations. The Company's international expansion further subjects the Company to additional risks and challenges that could harm its business and profitability. The Company's business strategy is focused on serving large corporate customers through high volume global service agreements. While the Company's strategy is intended to increase the Company's revenue and operating profit from our major corporate customers, the strategy also exposes the Company to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts. The loss of one or more of these customers, or material changes in their demand for the Company's products and services, unless the business is replaced by the Company or the segment, could result in an adverse effect on the results for the Company or that segment's business. In addition, some customers are in industries that have experienced adverse business and financial conditions in recent years. The deterioration of the financial condition or business prospects of these customers has reduced, and could further reduce, their need for temporary employment services and other services, and result in a significant decrease in the revenue and operating profit the Company derives from these customers. Other customers in the Staffing Services segment are Vendor Management System ("VMS") providers who coordinate the provision of temporary services to their own customers using internet-enabled, often web-based, applications that act as a mechanism for business to manage and procure contingent and other staffing services. These VMS providers typically manage programs with total volumes far in excess of the VMS' own worth, but they still assume all payment obligations to their customers' suppliers, such as the Company. The deterioration of the financial condition or business prospects of these VMS customers has reduced, and could further reduce, their need for temporary employment services and other services, and result in a significant decrease in the revenue and operating profit the Company derives from these customers. In addition, these customers, including the VMS providers, also present greater credit risks and, although the Company continues to evaluate their credit, some of these customers have in the past, and could in the future, default on their obligations to the Company. The Company relies on access to various financial markets, primarily the asset-backed commercial paper market and the commercial bank loan market, as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations or as a source of foreign exchange risk mitigation. Although the Company has significant cash reserves resulting from the recent sale of the net assets of the DataNational and Directory Services divisions, market disruptions have increased the cost of borrowing and could adversely affect the Company's ability to access one or more financial markets. If the Company is not able to access capital at competitive rates, the ability to implement the Company's business plans may be adversely affected. Similarly, market disruptions may delay or prevent customers from timely payment for our services. THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH THE COMPANY DOES BUSINESS ARE VERY COMPETITIVE. The Company, in all segments, has experienced intense price competition and pressure on margins and lower markups for renewals of customers' contracts than previously obtained. While the Company has and will continue its efforts to take action to meet competition in its highly competitive markets, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so without impacting margins. -14- The Company, in certain businesses in all segments, must obtain or produce products and systems, principally in the IT environment, to satisfy customer requirements and to remain competitive. While the Company has been able to do so in the past, there can be no assurance that in the future the Company will be able to foresee changes and to identify, develop and commercialize innovative and competitive products and systems in a timely and cost effective manner and to achieve customer acceptance of its products and systems in markets characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions. Although the Company continues its investment in research and development, there is no assurance that its present or future products and systems will be competitive, that it will continue to develop new products and systems or that present products and systems or new products and systems can be successfully marketed. In addition, the Company's products and systems are subject to risks inherent in new product introductions, such as start-up delays, cost overruns and uncertainty of customer acceptance, the Company's dependence on third parties for some product components and in certain technical fields with labor shortages, the Company's ability to hire and retain such specialized employees, all of which could adversely affect the Company's ability to meet its customers' demands in these fields and the Company's profit margins. In addition to these general statements, the following information applies to the specific segments identified below. The Company's Staffing Services segment is in a very competitive industry with few significant barriers to entry. The worldwide temporary staffing industry is competitive and highly fragmented. In the United States, approximately 40 competitors operate nationally, and approximately 6,000 smaller companies compete in varying degrees at local levels, many with only one or a few offices that service only a small market. Some of this segment's principal competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company and service the multi-national accounts whose business the Company also solicits. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able than the Company to attract and retain qualified personnel and may be able to offer their customers more favorable pricing terms than the Company. As the economy begins to slow down, customers tend to reduce their use of temporary and contract workers before undertaking layoffs of their own employees resulting in decreased demand for contingent workers. In addition, some of the segment's customers, generally larger entities, are mandated or otherwise motivated to utilize small or minority-owned companies rather than publicly held corporations such as the Company and have re-directed their business activities with this segment. The results of the Company's Computer Systems segment are highly dependent on the volume of directory assistance calls to this segment's customers which are processed by the segment under existing contracts, the segment's ability to continue to secure comprehensive listings from others at acceptable pricing, its ability to obtain additional customers for these services and its continued ability to sell products and services to new and existing customers. The volume of transactions with this segment's customers and the revenues received by the Company are subject to reduction as consumers utilize free listings offered by alternative sources, including listings available on the internet, and from consolidation in the telecommunications industry. The reliability of the Company's products and services is dependent upon the integrity of the data in its databases. A failure in the integrity of its database could harm the Company by exposing it to customer or third-party claims or by causing a loss of customer confidence in the Company's products and services. This segment's position in its market depends largely upon its reputation, quality of service and ability to develop, maintain and implement information systems on a cost competitive basis. The Company's Telecommunications Services segment faces substantial competition with respect to all of its telecommunications services from other suppliers and from in-house capabilities of present and potential customers. Since many customers provide the same type of services as the segment, the segment faces competition from its own customers and potential customers as well as from third parties. The Telecommunications Services segment performs much of its services outdoors, and its business can be adversely affected by inclement weather. In addition, the segment accounts for certain projects using percentage-of-completion; therefore variations of actual results from its estimates may reduce the segment's profitability. The segment's profitability is also reduced if the actual cost to complete a project exceeds its estimates. Some of this segment's significant competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. There are relatively few significant barriers to entry into certain of the markets in which the segment operates, and many competitors are small, local companies that generally have lower overhead. The Company's ability to compete in this segment depends upon its reputation, technical capabilities, pricing, quality of service and ability to meet customer requirements in a timely manner, as well as the economic health of the telecom industry. -15- Additionally, in all segments, the degree and timing of customer acceptance of systems and of obtaining new contracts and the rate of renewals of existing contracts, as well as customers' utilization of the Company's services, could adversely affect the Company's businesses. MANY OF THE COMPANY'S CONTRACTS EITHER PROVIDE NO MINIMUM PURCHASE REQUIREMENTS OR ARE CANCELABLE DURING THE TERM, OR BOTH. In all segments, many of the Company's contracts, even those whose duration spans a number of years, provide no assurance of any minimum amount of work that will actually be available under the contract; under these contracts the Company must still compete for each individual placement or project. Most staffing services contracts are not sole source, so the segment must compete for each placement at the customer. Similarly, many telecommunications master contracts require competition in order to obtain each individual work project. In addition, many of the Company's long-term contracts contain cancellation provisions under which the customer can cancel the contract, even if the Company is not in default under the contract. Therefore, these contracts do not give the assurances that long-term contracts often provide and create uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings the Company may recognize with respect to its customer contracts. THE COMPANY'S STAFFING SERVICES BUSINESS AND ITS OTHER SEGMENTS SUBJECT IT TO EMPLOYMENT-RELATED AND OTHER CLAIMS AND LOSSES THAT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The Company's staffing services business employs individuals on a temporary basis and places them in a customer's workplace. The Company's ability to control the customer workplace is often limited, and the Company risks incurring liability to its employees for injury (which results in increased workers' compensation costs) or other harm that they suffer at the customer's workplace. Increases in workers' compensation costs adversely affect the Company's competitive position and its ability to retain business and obtain new business. Risks relating to these activities include: o violations of wage and hour requirements and other applicable labor codes which govern the relationship between employers and employees; o claims by the Company's employees of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to actions of the Company's customers; o claims by contingent workers for retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; o claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of the Company's employees; o claims related to the employment of undocumented or unlicensed personnel; o the retention of the risk of loss, up to certain limits, for claims related to workers' compensation, general liability, automobile liability and employee group health; o errors and omissions of the Company's employees, particularly in the case of professionals; and o claims by the Company's customers relating to the Company's employees' misuse of customers' proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts or other similar claims. Additionally, the Company risks liability to its customers for the actions of the Company's employees that may result in harm to the Company's customers. Such actions may be the result of negligence or misconduct on the part of the Company's temporary employees, including misappropriation of funds, damage to customer facilities due to negligence of temporary employees, criminal activity and other similar claims. In many cases, the Company must indemnify its customers for the acts of the Company's employees, and certain customers have negotiated increases in the scope of such indemnification agreements. The Company may also incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies in place to help reduce the Company's exposure to these risks will be effective or that the Company will not experience losses as a result of these risks. There also can also be no assurance that the insurance policies the Company has purchased to insure against certain risks will be adequate or that insurance coverage will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. These same factors apply to all of the Company's business units, although the risk may be reduced where the Company itself controls the employees and/or the workplace. Nevertheless, the risk is present in all segments. -16- The Company is subject to certain legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. A quarterly review is performed of each significant matter to assess any potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, a liability and an expense are recorded for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination of whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Any accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, a reassessment is performed of the potential liability related to any pending claims and litigation and may revise the Company's estimates. Potential legal liabilities and the revision of estimates of potential legal liabilities could have a material adverse impact on the results of the Company's operations. NEW AND INCREASED GOVERNMENT REGULATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS, ESPECIALLY ITS CONTINGENT STAFFING BUSINESS. Certain of the Company's businesses are subject to licensing and regulation in many states and certain foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has not had any difficulty complying with these requirements in the past, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to do so, or that the cost of compliance will not become material. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which the Company does or intend to do business may: o create new or additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of services that the Company currently provides; o impose new or additional employee costs, including benefit requirements, thereby increasing the Company's costs that may not be able to be passed on to customers or which would cause customers to reduce their use of the Company's services, especially in its staffing services segment, which would adversely impact the Company's ability to conduct its business; o require the Company to obtain additional licenses to provide its services; or o increase taxes (especially payroll and other employment related taxes) or enact new or different taxes payable by the providers or users of services such as those offered by the Company, thereby increasing the Company's costs, some of which may not be able to be passed on to customers or which would cause customers to reduce their use of the Company's services, especially in its Staffing Services segment, which would adversely impact the Company's ability to conduct its business. In the Company's foreign markets, temporary services are more heavily regulated than in the United States and litigation and governmental activity (at European Union and national levels) directed at the way the industry does business is also being conducted or considered. The Company does not know the effect governmental activity will have on the industry in general or upon the Staffing Solutions Group's business. In addition, certain private and governmental entities have focused on the contingent staffing industry in particular and, as well as their potential to impose additional requirements and costs, they and their supporters could cause changes in customers' attitudes toward the use of outsourcing and temporary personnel in general. This could have an adverse effect on the Company's contingent staffing business. THE COMPANY MAY EXPERIENCE BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS THAT COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON ITS OPERATIONS. The Company could be negatively affected by natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, hardware or software malfunctions and break-downs, computer viruses or similar events. Although the Company has disaster recovery plans in place, it may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion. If the Company's critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, this could temporarily impact the Company's ability to pay employees, bill customers, service customers, maintain billing and payroll records reliably and pay taxes, which could adversely affect its revenue, operating expenses, and financial condition. A prolonged outage could seriously impact the Company's ability to service customers or hire temporary workers and could seriously threaten the organization. -17- IMPROPER DISCLOSURE OF EMPLOYEE AND CUSTOMER DATA COULD RESULT IN LIABILITY AND HARM THE COMPANY'S REPUTATION. The Company's business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about its employees, its customers and employees of its customers and third parties. The Company and its third-party service providers have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. It is possible that the Company's security controls over personal, consumer and customer data and other practices that the Company and its third-party service providers follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of identifiable personal, consumer and customer information. Such disclosure could harm the Company's reputation and subject the Company to liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal, consumer and customer data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT UPON ITS KEY PERSONNEL. The Company's operations are dependent on the continued efforts of its officers and executive management. In addition, the Company is dependent on the performance and productivity of its local managers and field personnel. The Company's ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. The loss of those key officers and members of management who have acquired significant experience in the Company's businesses may cause a significant disruption to the Company's business. Moreover, the loss of the Company's key managers and field personnel may jeopardize existing client relationships with businesses that continue to use the Company's services based upon past relationships with these local managers and field personnel. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operation, because it may result in the Company's inability to establish and maintain client relationships and otherwise operate our business. THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT UPON ITS ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN CERTAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. The Company's future success is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain certain classifications of technologically qualified personnel for its own use, particularly in the areas of research and development, implementation and upgrading of internal systems, as well as in its staffing services segment. The availability of such personnel is dependent upon a number of economic and demographic conditions. The Company may in the future find it difficult or more costly to hire such personnel in the face of competition from other companies. WHEN THE COMPANY MAKES ACQUISITIONS, IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE THEM OR ATTAIN THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS. If the Company is unsuccessful in integrating its acquisitions, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, the Company may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, the Company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from its acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. THE COMPANY MUST STAY IN COMPLIANCE WITH ITS SECURITIZATION PROGRAM AND OTHER LOAN AGREEMENTS. The Company is required to maintain certain covenants to enable it to continue its securitization program and maintain its existing credit rating in order to avoid any increase in fees under other credit agreements. In addition, the Company must also comply with the financial and other covenants applicable under the various agreements and other borrowing instruments. -18- IF THE COMPANY FAILS TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS OR DISCOVERS MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN ITS INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPORT ITS FINANCIAL RESULTS ACCURATELY OR TIMELY OR DETECT FRAUD, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON ITS BUSINESS. An effective internal control environment is necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of its effort to prevent financial fraud. The Company is required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of its internal controls over financial reporting. Based on these evaluations, the Company may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. In the Company's evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures as of November 2, 2008, management concluded that, as of their evaluation, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) are ineffective because of the effect of a material weakness in the Company's system of internal controls at one of the Company's subsidiaries. The Company's management reviewed and evaluated the design of the control procedures and is taking actions to remediate the reported material weakness. While management evaluates the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, or if management or the Company's independent registered public accounting firm discovers material weaknesses in the Company's internal controls, it may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, the Company may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities Exchange Commission or the New York Stock Exchange. Any such actions could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company's financial statements, which could cause the market price of its common stock to decline or limit the Company's access to capital. THE COMPANY'S PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS OWN A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF THE COMPANY AND WILL BE ABLE TO EXERCISE SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER THE COMPANY AND THEIR INTERESTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE OF OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. As of December 31, 2008, the Company's principal shareholders, who are related family members, controlled in excess of 42 % of the Company's outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these shareholders, if they act together (as to which no assumption can be made) would be able to control the composition of the Company's board of directors and many other matters requiring shareholder approval and could continue to have significant influence over the Company's affairs. This concentration of ownership also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or otherwise discouraging a potential acquiror from attempting to obtain control of the Company. NEW YORK LAW AND THE COMPANY'S ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS CONTAIN PROVISIONS THAT COULD MAKE THE TAKEOVER OF THE COMPANY MORE DIFFICULT. Certain provisions of New York law and the Company's articles of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third-party from acquiring the Company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the Company's shareholders. These provisions of the Company's articles of incorporation and bylaws include: o providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, two-year terms; o permitting removal of directors only for cause; o providing that vacancies on the board of directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office; and o requiring advance notice for shareholder proposals and director nominees. The Company's board of directors could choose not to negotiate with a potential acquirer that it did not believe was in the Company's strategic interests. If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire the Company or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, the Company's shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. -19- THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE COULD BE EXTREMELY VOLATILE AND, AS A RESULT, INVESTORS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESELL THEIR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE THEY PAID FOR THEM. The Company's stock price has in the past, and could in the future, fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including those factors previously discussed, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Among the factors that could affect the Company's stock price are: o relatively low float of the Company's common stock caused, among other reasons, by the holdings of the Company's principal shareholders and members of their families; o the Company's failure to meet the expectations of the investment community and changes in investment community recommendations or estimates of the Company's future results of operations; o industry trends and the business success of the Company's customers; o loss of a key customer; o fluctuations in the Company's results of operations; o strategic moves by the Company's competitors, such as product announcements or acquisitions; o regulatory developments, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; o litigation; o general economic conditions such as the current recession; o general market conditions; and o other domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to the Company's performance. The stock market has experienced and may in the future experience extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. If a securities class action suit is filed against the Company, it would incur substantial legal fees and management's attention and resources would be diverted from operating its business in order to respond to the litigation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None -20- 