Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s future business, operating results or financial condition. These risk factors and the other information in this document should be carefully considered before making investment decisions. Additional risks not currently known to ABN AMRO or that ABN AMRO now deems immaterial may also harm ABN AMRO and affect your investment. Conditions in the global financial markets and economy have yet to normalise and may materially adversely affect ABN AMRO’s business and profitability The outlook for the global economy over the near to medium term remains challenging as the global financial system has yet to fully normalise. Results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; the stability and solvency of financial institutions and other companies; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these or other factors. While there are some signs of a recovery in some countries, it appears that 2010 will continue be a year of slow growth, and it is not yet certain whether the recovery underway is stable. Emergency measures designed to stabilise the European Union and the United States financial markets are beginning to wind down Since mid-2008, a host of government actions have been implemented in response to the financial crisis and the recession. Some of the programs are beginning to expire and the impact of the wind-down of these programs on the financial sector and on the nascent economic recovery is unknown. As government support schemes are cancelled, changed or withdrawn, there is a possibility that ABN AMRO, in common with other financial institutions, may have insufficient access to, or incur higher costs associated with, funding alternatives, which could have a material adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a stall in the economic recovery or continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could exacerbate these effects. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes As a financial services firm, ABN AMRO is subject to financial services laws, regulations, corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies in each location in which it operates. In 2009, as many emergency government programs slowed or wound down, global regulatory and legislative focus generally moved to a broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. Legislators and regulators, both in Europe and the United States, are currently considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way ABN AMRO’s global operations are regulated. Some of these major changes may take effect as early as 2010, and could materially impact the profitability of ABN AMRO’s businesses, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. As a financial holding company, certain reform proposals under consideration could result in ABN AMRO becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our creditors. Regulatory reform proposals could also result in the imposition of additional restrictions on our activities proposals for heightened capital requirements at the level of the holding company are implemented and we are unable to meet such requirements. Markets may experience periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity, which may lead to market risk losses and adversely influence ABN AMRO’s ability to hedge our risks effectively Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets remain a risk to ABN AMRO’s business. In addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading risks as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a 61 large scale, such as crowded trades. ABN AMRO’s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and ABN AMRO could realise significant losses if extreme market events were to persist for an extended period of time. Changes in interest rate and foreign exchange rates may adversely affect ABN AMRO’s results Fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates influence ABN AMRO’s performance. The results of ABN AMRO’s banking operations are affected by ABN AMRO’s management of interest rate sensitivity. Interest rate sensitivity refers to the relationship between changes in market interest rates and changes in net interest income. If the yield on our interest-earning assets does not increase at the same time or to the same extent as our cost of funds, or if our cost of funds does not decline at the same time or to the same extent as the decrease in yield on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income and net interest margin may be adversely impacted. This could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of ABN AMRO’s business or results from operations and cash flows. In addition, ABN AMRO Holding publishes its consolidated financial statements in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate other currencies into euros affect ABN AMRO Holding’s reported consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from year to year. For an overview of how interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate fluctuation risk is managed, see ‘Market risk in the trading book’ in this section as well as note 38 in Section 6: ‘Financial Statements’. Defaults by another large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, financial losses and defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, derivatives clearing organizations, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore, lead to material losses for ABN AMRO. Lack of liquidity is a risk to ABN AMRO’s business and its ability to access sources of liquidity has been, and will continue to be, constrained Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due. This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise specific factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of funding (including, for example, short-term and overnight funding), changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and financial market crises. During the course of 2008 and 2009, credit markets worldwide experienced a severe reduction in liquidity and term-funding. During this time, perception of counterparty risk between banks also increased significantly. This increase in perceived counterparty risk also led to reductions in inter-bank lending, and hence, in common with many other banking groups, ABN AMRO’s access to traditional sources of liquidity has been, and may continue to be, restricted. ABN AMRO’s liquidity management focuses on maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its assets, controlling the mismatch of maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and contingent liabilities. However, ABN AMRO’s ability to access sources of liquidity (for example, through the issue or sale of financial and other instruments or through the use of term loans) during the recent period of liquidity stress has been constrained to the point where it, like other banks, has had to rely more than otherwise on shorter term and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes provided by central banks. While during the course of 2009 money market conditions improved, with ABN AMRO seeing a material reduction of funding from central banks and the issuance of non-government guaranteed term debt, further tightening of credit markets could have a negative impact on ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO, in line with other financial institutions, may need to seek funds from alternative sources, potentially at higher costs of funding than has previously been the case. In addition, there is also a risk that corporate and institutional counterparties with credit exposures may look to reduce all credit exposures to banks, given current risk aversion trends. It is possible that credit market dislocation becomes so severe that overnight funding from non-government sources ceases to be available. 62 Like many banking groups, ABN AMRO relies on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of its funding. Furthermore, as part of its ongoing strategy to improve its liquidity position, ABN AMRO is actively seeking to increase the proportion of its funding represented by customer deposits. However, such deposits are subject to fluctuation due to certain factors outside ABN AMRO’s control, such as a loss of confidence, increasing competitive pressures or the encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or central bank depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of deposits within a short period of time. There is currently heavy competition among EU banks for retail customer deposits, which has increased the cost of procuring new deposits and impacted ABN AMRO’s ability to grow its deposit base. An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, ABN AMRO’s deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other factors described above, have a negative impact on ABN AMRO’s ability to satisfy its liquidity needs unless corresponding actions were taken to improve the liquidity profile of other deposits or to reduce assets. The governments of some of the countries in which ABN AMRO operates have taken steps to guarantee the liabilities of the banks and branches operating in their respective jurisdiction. Whilst in some instances the operations of ABN AMRO are covered by government guarantees alongside other local banks, in other countries this may not necessarily always be the case. There can be no assurance that these measures, alongside other available measures, will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity in the markets in which ABN AMRO operates, or that these measures, combined with any increased cost of any funding currently available in the market, will not lead to a further increase in ABN AMRO’s overall cost of funding, which could have an adverse impact on ABN AMRO’s financial condition and results of operations. ABN AMRO's borrowing costs, our access to the debt capital markets and our liquidity depend significantly on our credit ratings Rating agencies assess the creditworthiness of ABN AMRO and assign a rating to ABN AMRO and some of the financial instruments it has issued. This information is available to many investors and clients of ABN AMRO. Any downgrade in ABN AMRO’s ratings may further increase our borrowing costs, require ABN AMRO to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer deposits, and may also limit ABN AMRO’s access to capital and money markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivatives contracts and other secured funding arrangements. As a result, any further reductions in ABN AMRO’s credit ratings could adversely affect ABN AMRO’s access to liquidity and competitive position, increase its funding costs and have a negative impact on ABN AMRO’s earnings and financial condition. On 4 August 2009 Moody’s Investor Service lowered the long-term ratings of ABN AMRO and several of its subsidiaries, including ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Moody’s also placed ABN AMRO’s long-term ratings on review for possible downgrade. There can be no assurance that Moody’s or another credit rating agency will not downgrade the credit rating of ABN AMRO or its subsidiaries. ABN AMRO’s business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or if there are changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. Effective management of ABN AMRO’s capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy of returning to standalone strength. ABN AMRO is required by regulators in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, the United States and in other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities, to maintain adequate capital resources. The maintenance of adequate capital is also necessary for ABN AMRO’s financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy. On 17 December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) proposed a number of fundamental reforms to the regulatory capital framework in its consultative document entitled "Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector". If the proposals made by the Basel Committee are implemented, this could result in ABN AMRO being subject to significantly higher capital requirements. The proposals include: (a) the build-up of a counter-cyclical capital buffer in excess of the regulatory minimum capital requirement, which is large enough to enable ABN AMRO to remain above the minimum capital requirement in the face of losses expected to be incurred in a feasibly severe downturn; (b) an increase in the capital requirements for counterparty risk exposures arising from derivatives, repo-style transactions and securities financing transactions; (c) the imposition of a leverage ratio as a supplementary measure to the existing Basel II risk-based measure; (d) the phasing out of hybrid capital instruments as Tier 1 capital and the requirement that the predominant form of Tier 1 capital must be common shares and retained earnings; and (e) the imposition of global minimum liquidity standards that include a requirement to hold a stock of unencumbered high quality liquid assets sufficient to cover cumulative net cash outflows over a 30-day period under a prescribed stress scenario. The proposed reforms are subject to a consultative process and 63 an impact assessment and are not likely to be implemented before the end of 2012. The Basel Committee will also consider appropriate transition and grandfathering arrangements. These and other future changes to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements in the jurisdictions in which it operates may require ABN AMRO to raise additional Tier 1, Core Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. If ABN AMRO is unable to raise the requisite Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, it may be required to further reduce the amount of its risk-weighted assets and engage in the disposition of core and other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to ABN AMRO. Any change that limits ABN AMRO’s ability to manage effectively its balance sheet and capital resources going forward (including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded pension exposures or otherwise) or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position. The financial performance of ABN AMRO has been and will be affected by borrower credit quality Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of ABN AMRO's businesses. Whilst many economies have stabilised and left a recession over the course of 2009, ABN AMRO may continue to see adverse changes in the credit quality of its borrowers and counterparties, for example, as a result of their inability to refinance their indebtedness, with increasing delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors (such as the personal and banking and financial institution sectors) and in a number of geographies. This trend has led and may lead to further and accelerated impairment charges, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for ABN AMRO. Increases in ABN AMRO’s allowances for loan losses may have an adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s results ABN AMRO’s banking businesses establish provisions for loan losses, which are reflected in the loan impairment and other credit risk provisions on ABN AMRO’s income statement, in order to maintain ABN AMRO’s allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed to be appropriate by management based upon an assessment of prior loss experiences, the volume and type of lending being conducted by each bank, industry standards, past due loans, economic conditions and other factors related to the collectability of each entity’s loan portfolio. Although management uses its best efforts to establish the allowances for loan losses, that determination is subject to significant judgment, and ABN AMRO’s banking businesses may have to increase or decrease their allowances for loan losses in the future as a result of increases or decreases in non-performing assets or for other reasons. For further detail please refer to the section ‘Accounting Policies’ in Section 6: ‘Financial Statements’. Any increase in the allowances for loan losses, any loan losses in excess of the previously determined provisions with respect thereto or changes in the estimate of the risk of loss inherent in the portfolio of non-impaired loans could have an adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s results of operations and financial condition. ABN AMRO operates in markets that are highly competitive. If ABN AMRO is unable to perform effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected There is substantial competition for the types of banking and other products and services that ABN AMRO provides in the regions in which ABN AMRO conducts large portions of our business. The intensity of this competition is affected by consumer demand, technological changes, the impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depositary institutions to offer products and services that were traditionally banking products and for financial institutions to compete with technology companies in providing electronic and internet-based financial solutions. If ABN AMRO is unable to provide attractive product and service offerings that are profitable, ABN AMRO may lose market share or incur losses on some or all of ABN AMRO’s activities. In addition, certain competitors may have access to lower cost funding and be able to offer retail deposits on more favourable terms than ABN AMRO and may have stronger multi-channel and more efficient operations as a result of greater historical investments. Furthermore, ABN AMRO’s competitors may be better able to attract and retain clients and talent, which may have a negative impact on ABN AMRO's relative performance and future prospects. 64 Furthermore, increased government ownership of, and involvement in, banks generally may have an impact on the competitive landscape in the major markets in which ABN AMRO operates. Although, at present, it is difficult to predict what the effects of this increased government ownership and involvement will be or how they will differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, such involvement may cause ABN AMRO to experience stronger competition for corporate, institutional and retail clients and greater pressure on profit margins. Since the markets in which ABN AMRO operates are expected to remain highly competitive in all areas, these and other changes to the competitive landscape could adversely affect ABN AMRO's business, margins, profitability and financial condition. ABN AMRO is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business ABN AMRO, like all financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud or other misconduct by employees or outsiders, unauthorised transactions by employees and operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or errors resulting from faulty computer or telecommunications systems. As a consequence of the legal demerger and separation of ABN AMRO, and the accompanying separation of information technology platforms, ABN AMRO is subject to heightened operational risk. ABN AMRO may also be subject to disruptions of ABN AMRO’s operating systems, arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond ABN AMRO’s control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunication outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to loss or liability to ABN AMRO. ABN AMRO is further exposed to the risk that external vendors may be unable to fulfil their contractual obligations to ABN AMRO, and to the risk that their business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. ABN AMRO also faces the risk that the design of ABN AMRO’s controls and procedures prove to be inadequate or are circumvented. Although ABN AMRO has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures, to identify and rectify weaknesses in existing procedures and to train staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by ABN AMRO. Any weakness in these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged breaches of applicable laws or regulations, could have a materially negative impact on ABN AMRO’s business, reputation and results of operations. ABN AMRO depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, ABN AMRO may rely on information furnished to ABN AMRO by or on behalf of the customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. ABN AMRO also may rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. ABN AMRO’s financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by relying on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading. The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate Under IFRS, ABN AMRO recognises at fair value (i) financial instruments classified as ‘held-for-trading’ or ‘designated as at fair value through income’, (ii) financial assets classified as ‘available-for-sale’, and (iii) derivatives, each as further described in Section 6: ‘Accounting Policies’. Generally, to establish the fair value of these instruments, ABN AMRO relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, as has been the case during the current financial crisis. In such circumstances, ABN AMRO's internal valuation models require ABN AMRO to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates ABN AMRO is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies. Such assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on ABN AMRO's earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity have challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and have made it difficult to value certain of ABN AMRO’s financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting 65 prevailing market conditions, may result in further significant changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a negative effect on ABN AMRO’s results of opersations and financial condition. Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we seek to compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes with performance. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The financial industry may experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, or employee compensation may be made subject to special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. ABN AMRO is subject to legal risk, which may have an adverse impact on our results In the ordinary course of business ABN AMRO is involved in a number of legal proceedings. Furthermore, periods of market dislocation, characterised by sharply deteriorating financial markets, are generally accompanied by an increase in investor litigation against intermediaries such as banks and investment advisors. It is inherently difficult to predict the outcome of many of the litigations, regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings involving our businesses, particularly those cases in which the matters are brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, seek damages of unspecified or indeterminate amounts or involve novel legal claims. In presenting our consolidated financial statements, management may make estimates regarding the outcome of legal, regulatory and arbitration matters and takes a charge to income when losses with respect to such matters are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Changes in our estimates may have an adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s results. ABN AMRO is subject to enforcement risks relating to the Department of Justice’s criminal investigation of its dollar clearing activities As previously disclosed, the United States Department of Justice has been conducting a criminal investigation into ABN AMRO’s dollar clearing activities, Office of Foreign Assets Control (‘OFAC’) compliance procedures and other Bank Secrecy Act compliance matters all relating to activities before the Consortium Members acquired ABN AMRO. Both before and after the change of control, ABN AMRO cooperated and continues to cooperate fully with the investigation. Although no written agreement has yet been reached and negotiations are ongoing, in April 2007 the Bank reached an agreement in principle with the Department of Justice. The precise terms of the deferred prosecution agreement are still under negotiation. Refer to ‘Ongoing Investigations’. The ultimate resolution of the Department of Justice investigation and the nature and severity of possible additional sanctions cannot be predicted, but regulatory and law enforcement authorities have been imposing severe and significant monetary and other penalties against a number of banking institutions for violations of the Bank Secrecy Act and related statutes. The legal demerger of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. has resulted in a cross liability arrangement that changes the legal recourse available to investors On 6 February 2010, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. was demerged into two entities, being RBS N.V. (the former ABN AMRO Bank N.V.) and the new ABN AMRO Bank. In principle investors now only have recourse to the entity to which the relevant assets and liabilities have been transferred for payments in respect of the appropriate securities. Under the Dutch Civil Code, however, each entity remains liable to creditors for the monetary obligations of the other entity that existed at the date of the legal demerger in the event that the other entity cannot meet its obligations to those creditors. In each case, the liability relates only to obligations existing at the date of the legal demerger. The liability of RBS N.V. is limited to the equity retained at legal demerger, which amounted to EUR 4.0 billion. The liability of the new ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is limited to the amount of equity acquired at legal demerger, which amounted to EUR 1.8 billion. RBS N.V. has made arrangements to mitigate the risks of liability to the creditors which transferred to the new ABN AMRO Bank upon legal demerger. The new ABN AMRO Bank has also made arrangements to 66 mitigate the risks of liability to the creditors that remain in RBS N.V. Both of these entities hold the level of regulatory capital agreed upon with the Dutch Central Bank for purposes of covering any residual risks. Please note that similar to the above, the legal demerger of certain commercial activities in relation to the EC remedy also resulted in a cross liability arrangement that changes the legal recourse available to investors. Also in this case, the liability relates only to obligations existing at the date of legal demerger of New HBU II N.V. The liability of New HBU II N.V. is limited to the equity acquired at legal demerger. ABN AMRO’s legal demerger and legal separation process creates additional risks for ABN AMRO's business and stability ABN AMRO is going through a period of transition and change, which poses additional risks to ABN AMRO’s business including (i) ABN AMRO’s ability to manage the break up of ABN AMRO in a controlled manner while minimising the loss of business, (ii) ABN AMRO’s ability to retain key personnel during the transition and (iii) enhanced operational and regulatory risks during this period. During this period of transition and change and as a result of the legal demerger and upcoming legal separation, RBS N.V. and the new ABN AMRO Bank will remain interdependent with respect to certain business areas, for which they will inter alia provide certain services to each other. Investors in the United States may not be able to enforce civil liability judgments against ABN AMRO Holding and our directors and executive officers ABN AMRO Holding is incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and the members of our Supervisory Board, with one exception, and our Managing Board are residents of countries outside of the United States. Substantially all of the assets of ABN AMRO Holding and of the members of the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process upon ABN AMRO or upon these persons, or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws against ABN AMRO Holding and these persons. The United States and the Netherlands do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws, would not be enforceable in the Netherlands. However, a Dutch court may, under current practice, recognise the final judgment that has been rendered in the United States and may grant the same claim without rehearing the merits under certain circumstances, unless the consequences of the recognition of such judgment would contravene public policy in the Netherlands. Risk factors in relation to the Asset Protection Scheme On 22 December 2009, the RBS Group acceded to the Asset Protection Scheme (‘APS’) with HM Treasury acting on behalf of the UK Government. Under the Scheme, the RBS Group purchased credit protection over a portfolio of specified assets and exposures (“covered assets”) from HM Treasury including assets and exposures of ABN AMRO in the amount of EUR 30 billion (the "ABN AMRO Covered Assets"). On 22nd December 2009 ABN AMRO and RBS plc entered into a back to back contract in relation to the ABN AMRO Covered Assets (the "Contract"). The extensive governance, asset management and information requirements under the APS conditions and HM Treasury’s step-in rights reflected in the Contract may serve to limit materially ABN AMRO's operations. In addition, the market’s reaction to such controls and limitations may have an adverse impact on the price of the ABN AMRO’s securities. HM Treasury has the right under the APS to appoint one or more step-in managers (identified or agreed to by HM Treasury) to exercise certain step-in rights upon the occurrence of certain specified events. The step-in rights extend to the ABN AMRO Covered Assets. The step-in rights are extensive and include certain oversight, investigation, approval and other rights, the right to require the modification or replacement of any of the systems, controls, processes and practices of the RBS Group (including ABN AMRO) and extensive rights in relation to the direct management and administration of the ABN AMRO Assets. The step-in manager may be a person identified by HM Treasury and not by the company. If HM Treasury seeks to exercise its right to appoint one or more step-in managers in relation to the management and administration of Covered Assets held by ABN AMRO or its wholly owned subsidiaries, ABN AMRO will, in certain circumstances, need to seek consent from the Dutch Central Bank to allow it to comply with such a step-in. The appointment of a step-in manager could result in a material adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in ABN AMRO’s securities. 67 In order to fulfil its disclosure obligations under the Contract, ABN AMRO may incur the risk of civil suits, criminal liability or regulatory actions. The APS Conditions and the Contract require that certain information in relation to the Covered Assets including the ABN AMRO Covered Assets be disclosed to HM Treasury to enable HM Treasury to quantify, manage and assess its exposure under the APS. In complying with these requirements and providing such information to HM Treasury, ABN AMRO may, in certain jurisdictions, incur the risk of civil suits or regulatory action (which could include fines) to the extent that disclosing information related to the ABN AMRO Covered Assets results in ABN AMRO breaching common law or statutory confidentiality laws, contractual undertakings, data protection laws, banking secrecy and other laws restricting disclosure. Adverse regulatory action or adverse judgments in litigation could result in a material adverse effect on ABN AMRO’s reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in ABN AMRO’s securities. Where ABN AMRO discloses information to HM Treasury as set out above, HM Treasury may disclose that information to a number of third parties for certain specified purposes. Such disclosures by HM Treasury may put ABN AMRO in breach of common law or statutory confidentiality laws, contractual undertakings, data protection laws, banking secrecy or other laws restricting disclosure. 68 Legal and Regulatory Proceedings ABN AMRO is involved in a number of legal proceedings in the ordinary course of ABN AMRO’s business in a number of jurisdictions. In presenting ABN AMRO’s consolidated financial statements, management makes estimates regarding the outcome of legal, regulatory and arbitration matters, and takes a charge to income when losses with respect to such matters are probable. Charges, other than those taken periodically for costs of defence, are not established for matters when losses cannot be reasonably estimated. ABN AMRO cannot guarantee that these proceedings will be concluded in a manner favourable to ABN AMRO and should ABN AMRO’s assessment of the risk change, ABN AMRO’s view on changes to income will also change. In November 2009 the Supreme Court in the Netherlands gave a declaratory judgment against World Online International N.V., Goldman Sachs International and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. in relation to claims arising out of the World Online initial public offering of 2000. It held that these Defendants had committed certain wrongful acts in connection with the initial public offering. The judgment does not establish liability or the amount of any loss. Management does not believe that any final liability or loss will have a significant effect on ABN AMRO’s financial position or profitability. On the basis of information currently available, and having taken legal counsel with advisors, ABN AMRO is of the opinion that the outcome of these proceedings is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position and the consolidated profit of ABN AMRO. Ongoing Investigations As previously disclosed, the United States Department of Justice has been conducting a criminal investigation into ABN AMRO’s dollar clearing activities, OFAC compliance procedures and other Bank Secrecy Act compliance matters. ABN AMRO has cooperated and continues to cooperate fully with the investigation. Although no written agreement has yet been reached and negotiations are ongoing, in April 2007 ABN AMRO reached an agreement in principle with the Department of Justice. Under the terms of the agreement, in principle, ABN AMRO would also agree to continue cooperating in the United States’ ongoing investigation and to settle all then known civil and criminal claims currently held by the United States for the sum of USD 500 million. A charge for USD 500 million was recorded in the first half of 2007. The precise terms of the deferred prosecution agreement are still under negotiation. In consideration for the foregoing provisions, as well as ABN AMRO’s extensive remedial actions to date and its willingness to demonstrate future good conduct and full compliance with all applicable federal laws, the United States Department of Justice would recommend to the United States District Court that the prosecution of ABN AMRO under the information be deferred for a fixed period. At the end of that fixed period, provided ABN AMRO is in full compliance with all of its obligations under the deferred prosecution agreement, the United States would seek dismissal with prejudice of the information filed against the ABN AMRO. The precise terms of the deferred prosecution agreement and agreed factual statement are still under negotiation. 69 Section 5 Governance Boards and Committees 71 Supervisory Board 71 Contacts with Dutch Central Works 73 Audit Committee 73 Nomination & Compensation Committee 74 Compliance Oversight Committee 75 Managing Board 76 Corporate Governance Codes 77 ABN AMRO’s approach 77 Corporate governance in the Netherlands 77 Corporate governance in the United States 79 ABN AMRO’s Human Resources 80 Sustainability 80 70 SECTION 5 GOVERNANCE Boards and Committees ABN AMRO Holding, RBS N.V. and the new ABN AMRO Bank are companies with limited liability incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands. All companies have a two-tier system of corporate governance; consisting of a Supervisory Board and a Managing Board. The day to day management of the companies is vested with the Managing Board. The memberships of the Supervisory Boards and Managing Boards of ABN AMRO Holding, RBS N.V. and the new ABN AMRO Bank are the same. ABN AMRO Holding, RBS N.V. and the new ABN AMRO Bank are not obliged to adhere to the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, but do so in accordance with market practice. Supervisory Board Responsibilities of the Supervisory Board ABN AMRO Holding’s Supervisory Board supervises the Managing Board, as well as ABN AMRO Holding’s general course of affairs and its business. In addition, it is charged with assisting and advising management. In performing their duties, the members of the Supervisory Board are guided by the interests of ABN AMRO Holding and the enterprises connected with it and shall take into account the relevant interests of ABN AMRO’s stakeholders. Certain powers are vested with the Supervisory Board, including the approval of certain resolutions by the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board is an independent body. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Supervisory Board nominates one or more candidates for each vacant seat. Under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Supervisory Board must be independent with the exception of not more than one person. ABN AMRO is currently deviating from that standard to accommodate the inclusion of representation from each Consortium Member. ABN AMRO has three Supervisory Board members who can not be considered to be independent within the scope of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code: Juan Rodriguez Inciarte, Michael Enthoven and Miller McLean. Supervisory Board members are appointed for a term of four years and may be re-appointed after that term. Members of the Supervisory Board may serve a maximum term of 12 years from the date of their first appointment. As a principle, each member agrees to retire by the day on which the annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held in the year in which he or she reaches the age of 70. Candidates recommended for appointment or re-appointment to the Supervisory Board should meet the criteria of the membership profile, which are set out in the Rules Governing the Supervisory Board’s Principles and Best Practices of ABN AMRO Holding. In case of a (potential) conflict of interest of material significance between a member of the Supervisory Board and ABN AMRO, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board shall be notified. Details of the Supervisory Board’s remuneration package can be found in note 43 in Section 6: ‘Financial Statements’. The Chairman and Vice Chairman are appointed by the Supervisory Board from among its members. The Supervisory Board also appoints from its members the Audit Committee of at least four members and the Nomination & Compensation Committee of at least three members. The committee members are appointed until further notice. The Rules Governing the Supervisory Board’s Principles and Best Practices of ABN AMRO Holding are available on ABN AMRO’s website at www.abnamro.com. These rules also include the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and the Nomination & Compensation Committee. 71 Composition of the Supervisory Board The members of the Supervisory Board, and their respective Supervisory Board committee membership, as at 26 March 2010 are as follows: Arthur Martinez (Chairman) A, N (Chairman) André Olijslager (Vice Chairman) A (Chairman) Trude Maas-de Brouwer N (Madam Chair) Gert-Jan Kramer A Ana Maria Llopis Rivas A Juan Rodriguez Inciarte Michael Enthoven A, N Miller McLean A member of the Audit Committee N member of the Nomination & Compensation Committee On 25 June 2009 Messrs Rob van den Bergh and Anthony Ruys resigned as members of the Supervisory Board after having served on the board for four years. For further information regarding the members of the Supervisory Board refer to Section 8: 'Additional Information'. Activities of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board met on seven occasions and several conference calls were held during the period under review. Meetings took place in person, by telephone and the members were also asked to give their approval on a few matters via email procedure. In view of the ongoing transition activities and upcoming changes to the organisational structure no formal assessment of the functioning of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board took place in 2009. The assessment of the functioning of the relevant Managing Board members was done by the respective consortium parties, where applicable. The Chairman and the Company Secretary prepared the agenda for the meetings of the Supervisory Board in close co-operation with the Chairman of the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board reviewed and adopted the 2008 results at its March meeting and reviewed and approved the half-year financial report 2009 in August. Next to that the Board reviewed in these meetings regulatory, control and audit issues, including Sarbanes-Oxley Act 404 compliance. The Board received regular updates on the transition program and transition risk and discussed and approved the demerger of a number of (major) assets, disposals and requests for Declaration of No Objection (‘DNO’) connected to the transition. The agenda of the Supervisory Board meetings in 2009 was predominantly governed by matters relating to the transition. The financial performance of ABN AMRO was extensively discussed in a number of Supervisory Board meetings. Relevant executives discussed findings of internal and external auditors. These meetings were preceded by meetings of the Audit Committee, which advised the full Supervisory Board on the approval of the financial results. Comprehensive information provided by the Managing Board and reviewed by the Audit Committee gave the Supervisory Board a clear picture of the Bank’s risks, results, and capital and liquidity position. Next to that the enterprise risk was discussed in the Supervisory Board meetings on a regular basis providing the Supervisory Board with clear insight in the risk taxonomy and amongst others the business, operational, credit, market, macro and other strategic enterprise risk. All Supervisory Board committees continued to report their deliberations and findings to the full Board for further discussion and, where appropriate, decisions. 72 The strategy of ABN AMRO was determined by the strategy of the respective consortium parties and therefore not an area of attention for the Supervisory Board in 2009. The Board nominated new Managing Board members. The Shareholder adopted the nominations on 1 July 2009. The Shareholder reappointed Deloitte Accountants B.V. as the external auditors of ABN AMRO Holding N.V. for the 2009 financial year. The Board received regular updates on the transition program, discussed and approved the demerger of a number of assets, disposals and requests for Declaration of No Objection (‘DNO’) connected to the transition. In light of the large number of Supervisory Board meetings that took place in 2009, all of the Supervisory Board members have complied with the requirement to attend meetings on a frequent basis. Contacts with Dutch Central Works Council Contrary to the covenant concluded in 2003 with the Dutch Central Works Council members of the Supervisory Board did not attend by rotation meetings of the Central Works Council in 2009. This was a result of the separation activities occurring within ABN AMRO. Instead several meetings were held with individual Supervisory Board members for specific topics related to the organisational changes resulting from the separation activities. Supervisory Board committees The Supervisory Board has two standing committees: the Audit Committee and the Nomination and Compensation Committee. The Compliance Oversight Committee ceased to exist on 1 September 2009. Audit Committee Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Supervisory Board from its own members. The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include supervising, monitoring and advising the Supervisory Board on the effectiveness of internal risk management and control systems and reviewing and advising the Supervisory Board on the disclosure of financial information. As of 1 September 2009 the Audit Committee includes the responsibilities of the Compliance and Oversight Committee. The Committee derives its authority from the Supervisory Board and its Terms of Reference are set out in annex C of the Rules Governing the Supervisory Board’s Principles and Best Practices. In line with good corporate governance, the Rules governing the ABN AMRO Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee have been reviewed to ensure that the objectives of the ABN AMRO Group Audit Committee are, where possible, fully aligned and consistent with the Terms of Reference of the RBS Group Audit Committee and adequate and appropriate oversight and escalation mechanisms are implemented. The external auditors are appointed or reappointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders for a period of one year on the advice of the Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for the engagement of the external auditors. For this purpose it evaluates the independence of the external auditor, the measures used to control the quality of the external auditor’s work, and the annual audit budget. The Audit Committee’s policy on auditor independence governs the appointment, compensation, and oversight of the external auditors. To ensure the external auditors’ independence, the Auditor Independence Policy prohibits the external auditors from providing certain non-audit services to ABN AMRO. The Audit Committee is furthermore responsible for pre-approving audit, audit-related and permitted non-audit services provided by the external auditor. In exercising its pre-approval authority, the Audit Committee considers whether the proposed services are consistent with the continued independence of the external auditor. Both the Auditor Independence Policy and the Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy for External Audit Firm Services can be viewed on ABN AMRO’s website at www.abnamro.com. Composition of the Audit Committee In 2009, the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board was chaired by André Olijslager. Other members included Arthur Martinez, Gert-Jan Kramer, Ana Maria Llopis Rivas and Michael Enthoven. 73 The members of the Audit Committee collectively have sufficient accounting and financial management expertise to understand the company’s business, financial statements and risk profile. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board has determined that Arthur Martinez possesses the necessary relevant expertise in financial administration and accounting for listed companies and other large companies and therefore qualifies as a financial expert within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. It has also determined that Arthur Martinez qualifies as an audit committee financial expert in accordance with Section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and that he is independent under the applicable US standards. Activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee convened six times during the course of 2009. Three of these meetings were regular meetings while three were extraordinary meetings. The Audit Committee reviewed, discussed and advised the Supervisory Board with regards to the interim financial statements, the Annual Report, the external auditors’ long-form report, the internal auditors’ management letter including the Managing Board’s related comments, the evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems, the Capital Adequacy Framework and the application of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in particular as to ABN AMRO’s compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of this Act. Deloitte Accountants B.V. (‘Deloitte’) reported on its independence to the Audit Committee. Deloitte has reviewed its engagements with ABN AMRO and confirmed to the Audit Committee that these have not impaired Deloitte’s ability to act as the independent auditors of ABN AMRO. The Audit Committee reviewed its pre-approval policy for audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditors. Following this review the Audit Committee pre-approved the nature and the budget for audit, audit-related and non-audit services, in line with this policy. Throughout the period, representatives of the ABN AMRO Managing Board, Finance Officers, the Committee Secretary, representatives from Group Audit, Risk Management and the external auditors have been in attendance by standing invitation and were provided with copies of the agendas, papers and minutes. The Chairman of the Audit Committee has met with the external auditors independently of the members of the Managing Board and the internal auditors. The Audit Committee, in the presence of senior representatives from Group Risk Management, also reviewed and discussed ABN AMRO’s overall risk profile, the quality of the loan portfolio and the bank’s large exposures and provisioning for loan losses. It also reviewed the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and related reporting. In addition, the Committee reviewed various risk reports, produced both internally and by third parties, outlining the unique risk profile arising directly as a result of the transition and separation activities. The Audit Committee reviewed, discussed and approved the 2009 Audit Plan prepared by Group Audit, as well as staff matters including training and recruitment. In addition, the Audit Committee discussed the operational and internal control aspects covered by Group Audit in its audit. In the middle of the year, Group Audit presented an assessment of the audit risks which reflected the impact of corporate activities. This was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. Nomination & Compensation Committee Responsibilities of the Nomination & Compensation Committee The Nomination & Compensation Committee is a combined remuneration, selection and appointment committee as defined in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The tasks and responsibilities of the Nomination & Compensation Committee of the Supervisory Board can be divided into tasks related to nomination and to compensation. The nomination responsibilities include preparing for the selection and nomination of members of the Supervisory and Managing Boards by preparing and periodically reviewing the succession plans of these Boards on the basis of agreed profiles. Where relevant, the Nomination & Compensation Committee informs the full Supervisory Board. 74 The Nomination & Compensation Committee also acts on reward and performance issues. Standards and criteria for performance are defined, and on that basis the performance of the members of both Boards is reviewed periodically. The framework, concept and content of compensation and benefits, pension schemes and other relevant schemes are discussed and decided. Resolutions concerning the remuneration policies for the Managing Board are submitted to the full Supervisory Board and are then put forward for adoption by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Composition of the Nomination & Compensation Committee The membership of the Nomination & Compensation Committee of the Supervisory Board changed in 2009. The Committee consists of the following members: Trude Maas-de Brouwer (Madam Chair), Arthur Martinez, Michael Enthoven and Anthony Ruys (until 25 June 2009). The Chairman of the Managing Board and the head of Group Human Resources were invited to the Nomination and Compensation Committee’s meetings to discuss relevant issues, such as the Managing Board’s composition and compensation. Activities of the Nomination & Compensation Committee The Nomination & Compensation Committee met two times in 2009. As a consequence of the transition, the activities of the Nomination & Compensation Committee in 2009 were limited to discussions about remuneration only. For a description of the Bank’s reward philosophy and principles as well as a detailed description of the relevant aspects of Managing Board compensation in 2009 please refer to note 43 ‘Remuneration of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board’ in Section 6: ’Financial Statements’. Compliance Oversight Committee Responsibilities of the Compliance Oversight Committee The role of the Compliance Oversight Committee was to supervise ABN AMRO’s compliance organisation, activities and risk profile. More specifically, the committee was responsible for supervising, monitoring and advising the Managing Board on the effects of internal risk management and control systems relating to compliance. These duties included supervising the enforcement of the relevant legislation and regulations, and overseeing compliance with the codes of conduct. The Compliance Oversight Committee was also responsible, along with the full Supervisory Board, for setting the right tone from the top by communicating the importance of compliance to the Managing Board and ABN AMRO as a whole, and by overseeing the Managing Board’s communications about the importance of compliance. Composition of the Compliance Oversight Committee The Compliance Oversight Committee consisted of three members all of whom were members of the Supervisory Board. In 2009 the members were Arthur Martinez (Chairman), Trude Maas-de Brouwer and Michael Enthoven. Activities of the Compliance Oversight Committee In line with its Charter, as set out in the Rules Governing the Supervisory Board’s Principles and Best Practices, the Compliance Oversight Committee met three times in 2009. During its meetings in 2009, the Committee reviewed and closely monitored the implementation of the annual Group Compliance plan with a particular focus on ensuring that Group Compliance remains appropriately staffed, compensated, resourced and supported during the transition phase. At each of these meetings the Committee further discussed the relevant quarterly Group Compliance Reports, elaborating on global regulatory developments and key Group Compliance initiatives during those quarters. Continuation of Compliance Oversight Committee responsibilities As of 1 September 2009, the responsibilities of the Compliance Oversight Committee were combined with those of the Audit Committee in order to simplify the process of supervising and monitoring ABN AMRO’s compliance risk profile in the transition period. The compliance topics which were under the responsibility of the Compliance Oversight Committee were as per that date discussed at meetings of the Audit Committee which were attended by the Head of Group Compliance. The Head of Group Compliance continues to have direct access to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. 75 Managing Board Responsibilities of the Managing Board The members of the Managing Board of ABN AMRO Holding N.V. collectively manage the company and are responsible for its strategy, structure and performance. The members are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Supervisory Board nominates one or more candidates for each vacant seat. If the Supervisory Board nominates two or more candidates for a vacant seat, the nomination list is binding. The members of the Managing Board are accountable both collectively and individually for all decisions taken by the Managing Board. The Chairman of the Managing Board leads the Board in its overall management of ABN AMRO to achieve its performance goals and ambitions. The Chairman is the main point of liaison with the Supervisory Board. The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the financial affairs of ABN AMRO, and the Chief Risk Officer is responsible for ABN AMRO’s risk management and operational risk control. Alongside their overall corporate responsibilities, the members of the Managing Board are responsible for the management of the Business Units, Group Functions and Services. The Managing Board has delegated certain tasks to committees. Composition of the Managing Board The members of the Managing Board and their responsibilities as at 26 March 2010 are as follows: Gerrit Zalm Chairman and responsible for Human Resources, Communications and Audit Ron Teerlink Vice Chairman and responsible for Transition Management David Cole Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer and responsible for Risk, Finance, Legal and Compliance Johan van Hall Responsible for Integration and Services Chris Vogelzang Responsible for Business Unit Netherlands and Business Unit Private Clients and International Diamond & Jewelry Group Donald Workman Responsible for the global markets business Javier Maldonado Responsible for the shared assets included in Central Items Jeroen Kremers Global Country Risk, RBS Group Brian Stevenson Responsible for Global Transaction Services On 1 July 2009 Jeroen Kremers and Brian Stevenson were appointed as members of the Managing Board for a period of four years. On the same day Michiel de Jong and Brad Kopp both stepped down from the Managing Board. Senior Executive Vice Presidents The number of Senior Executive Vice Presidents remained unchanged at two. 76 Corporate Governance Codes ABN AMRO’s approach On 25 March 2008 ABN AMRO announced that it had resolved to apply for delisting of its ordinary shares and the (formerly convertible) preference shares from Euronext Amsterdam, the regulated market of Euronext Amsterdam N.V. (‘Euronext Amsterdam’) and to apply for the delisting of its American Depositary Shares (‘ADSs’) from the New York Stock Exchange (‘NYSE’). Its ordinary shares and its ADSs were delisted from Euronext Amsterdam and the NYSE respectively, effective 25 April 2008. The (formerly convertible) preference shares were delisted shortly after finalisation of the squeeze-out proceedings on 22 September 2008. As a result of the delisting, ABN AMRO is no longer required to adhere to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. ABN AMRO has always maintained high corporate governance standards and the RBS Group, Dutch State and Santander are committed to continue this through the transition period. For ABN AMRO, good corporate governance is critical in order to realise its strategic goal of creating sustainable long-term value for all ABN AMRO’s stakeholders – including Shareholder, clients, employees and society at large. It is the foundation of ABN AMRO’s licence to operate. In order to achieve good corporate governance, ABN AMRO organises the business in a way that promotes first-class stewardship by the Managing Board and effective supervision by the Supervisory Board. Integrity, transparency and accountability are key elements of ABN AMRO’s corporate governance, as they are in ABN AMRO’s business as a whole. These key elements ensure that the controls and oversight necessary for effective risk management, proper compliance with regulations, and accurate and complete disclosure of information to the market are in place and functioning well. ABN AMRO’s guiding compass in these matters is provided by its Corporate Values and Business Principles, which constitute ABN AMRO’s ‘code of ethics’. As stated, even though ABN AMRO does not have to adhere to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, it continues to place importance on a transparent governance structure and chooses to substantially adhere to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Banking Code drawn up by the Netherland Bankers’ Association that has come into effect on 1 January 2010 also applies to ABN AMRO. As a company registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) ABN AMRO is subject to US securities laws and the applicable corporate governance rules in connection with ABN AMRO’s listing of NYSE Alternext debt. Corporate governance in the Netherlands The Dutch Corporate Governance Code took effect on 1 January 2004 and was amended on 10 December 2008. Even though ABN AMRO is not required to adhere to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, ABN AMRO confirms that it applies the principles and (applicable) best practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the following best practice provisions: II.2.2, II.2.3, II.2.8, II.2.11, II.2.12, II.2.13, II.3.3, III.2.1, III.6.2 and IV.1.1. Best practice provision II.2.2 states that the supervisory board shall determine the level and structure of the remuneration of the management board members by reference to the scenario analyses carried out and with due regard for the pay differentials within the enterprise. Best practice provision II.2.3 states that in determining the level and structure of the remuneration of management board members, the supervisory board shall take into account, among other things, the results, the share price performance and non-financial indicators relevant to the long term objectives of the company, with due regard for the risks to which variable remuneration may expose the enterprise. Best practice provision II.2.11 states that the supervisory board may recover from the management board members any variable remuneration awarded on the basis of incorrect financial or other data (clawback clause). Best practice provision II.2.12 states that the remuneration report of the supervisory board shall contain an account of the manner in which the remuneration policy has been implemented in the past financial year, as well as an overview of the remuneration policy planned by the supervisory board for the next financial year and subsequent years. The report shall explain how the chosen remuneration policy contributes to the achievement of the long-term objectives of the company and its affiliated enterprise in keeping with the risk profile. The report shall be posted on the company’s website. Best practice provision II.2.13 describes which information should in any event be included in the overview referred to in best practice provision II.2.12. 77 At the end of 2008 the Corporate Governance Monitoring Committee presented an updated version of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of 2003. These aformentioned best practice provisions are new compared to the previous version of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. In view of the ongoing transition activities, the upcoming changes to the organizational structure within ABN AMRO and the fact that ABN AMRO is not a listed entity, ABN AMRO has postponed the evaluation whether it fully adheres to these best practise provisions. Best practice provision II.2.8 states that the maximum remuneration in the event of dismissal is one year’s salary (the ‘fixed’ remuneration component). If the maximum of one year’s salary would be manifestly unreasonable for a managing board member who is dismissed during his first term of office, this board member shall be eligible for a severance payment not exceeding twice the annual salary. For some members of the Managing Board originating from ABN AMRO that have been appointed since 2006, ABN AMRO does not fully apply this best practice provision. The underlying ABN AMRO employment contracts of such members, which are Senior Executive Vice President Employment contracts under Dutch law, continue. However, all entitlements under these contracts, including the entitlements under the redundancy clause, have been suspended during membership of the Managing Board, and replaced by another employment contract applicable to Managing Board members. ABN AMRO has not included a redundancy clause in these contracts and shall apply best practice provision II.2.8 as follows: in the event of a termination of the Managing Board membership, the suspended employment contract will be reinstated. If it is deemed necessary to terminate that contract in the future, this will happen in accordance with Dutch labour law. Principle II.3 states that any conflict of interest or apparent conflict of interest between the company and managing board members shall be avoided. This principle has been elaborated in best practice provisions II.3.1 to II.3.4. Several new members of the Managing Board also serve in a number of managing and supervising capacities at the various Consortium Members. They have taken part and will take part in discussions or decision making that involves or will involve a subject or transaction relating to the separation and transfer of the ABN AMRO businesses to the respective Consortium Members. This could constitute a conflict of interest within the scope of best practice provision II.3.2. In this respect ABN AMRO does not apply best practice provision II.3.3 with respect to these subjects and transactions, but otherwise ABN AMRO reports that best practice provisions II.3.2 to II.3.4 inclusive, have been complied with, where applicable. Best practice provision III.2.1 states that all supervisory board members, with the exception of not more than one person, shall be independent within the meaning of best practice provision III.2.2. A description of independence is given in best practice provision III.2.2. As mentioned under principle II.3 above, following the acquisition by the Consortium Members of RFS Holdings, the sole shareholder of ABN AMRO, a new structure and membership for the Supervisory Board was put in place. Michael Enthoven, Public Prosecutor of the Ministry of Finance and Miller McLean, Group Legal Counsel and Company Secretary of RBS, have been nominated alongside Juan Rodriguez-Inciarte of Santander to reflect the change in ownership. In view of the criteria for independence mentioned in best practice provision III.2.2. these three Supervisory Board members cannot be considered to be independent. Therefore, ABN AMRO does not apply best practice provision III.2.1. In accordance with best practice provision III.2.3 the Supervisory Board members who cannot be considered to be independent are listed in the report of the Supervisory Board. Principle III.6 states that any conflict of interest or apparent conflict of interest between the company and supervisory board members shall be avoided. This principle has been elaborated in best practice provision III.6.1 to III.6.7. ABN AMRO’s explanation of principle II.3 applies mutatis mutandis to the three Supervisory Board members: Juan Rodriguez-Inciarte, and the two new members, Michael Enthoven and Miller McLean, who likewise have taken and will take part in discussions or decision-making that involves or will involve a subject or transaction relating to the separation and transfer of the ABN AMRO businesses to the respective Consortium Members. As this may 78 constitute a conflict of interest within the scope of best practice provision III.6.1, ABN AMRO does not apply best practice provision III.6.2 with respect to these subjects and transactions, but otherwise ABN AMRO reports that best practice provisions III.6.1 to III.6.3 inclusive have been complied with, where applicable. Similarly the transactions relating to the separation and transfer of the ABN AMRO businesses to the respective Consortium Members can fall within the scope of best practice provision III.6.4 in view of the holding by the Consortium Members of all of the ABN AMRO shares. For this reason ABN AMRO hereby confirms that best practice provision III.6.4 has been observed, where applicable. Best practice provision IV.1.1 states that the general meeting of shareholders of a company not having a statutory two-tier status (‘structuurregime’) may pass a resolution to cancel the binding nature of a nomination for the appointment of a member of the managing board or of the supervisory board, and/or a resolution to dismiss a member of the managing board or of the supervisory board by an absolute majority of the votes cast. It may be provided that this majority should represent a given proportion of the issued capital, which proportion may not exceed one third. If the given proportion of the capital is not represented at the meeting, but an absolute majority of the votes cast is in favour of a resolution to cancel the binding nature of a nomination, or to dismiss a board member, a new meeting may be convened at which the resolution may be passed by an absolute majority of the votes cast, regardless of the proportion of the capital represented at the meeting. ABN AMRO has one shareholder, RFS Holdings. In accordance with ABN AMRO’s Articles of Association, the following procedure has to be followed for the dismissal of members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. A distinction has been made between situations in which the Supervisory Board submits a proposal to the General Meeting of Shareholders to dismiss a member of the Managing Board or Supervisory Board and situations in which the proposal to dismiss a member of the Managing or Supervisory Board is submitted at the initiative of shareholders. The first of these situations requires an absolute majority of the General Meeting of Shareholder, and in this case ABN AMRO applies best practice provision IV.1.1. In the event of the second situation arising, a two-third majority of the votes cast is required. For this reason, ABN AMRO will continue to apply these procedures with regard to the nominations for the appointment and dismissal of Supervisory Board and Managing Board members. Banking Code On 1 January 2010 the Banking Code that was drawn up by the Netherlands Bankers’ Association came into effect. The Banking Code applies to RBS N.V. and the new ABN AMRO Bank. In accordance with the Banking Code, banks licenced under the Financial Supervision Act in the Netherlands are required to describe what preparatory steps were taken in 2009 to ensure that they can apply the Banking Code from 1 January 2010 onwards. A working group was established which assessed the extent to which the principles of the Banking Code are complied with by ABN AMRO. In view of the ongoing transition activities and the upcoming changes to the organisational structure within ABN AMRO, it was concluded that implementing additional measures to comply with the Banking Code at this stage would be of limited value given the separation. After separation RBS N.V. and the new ABN AMRO Bank will explain their compliance with the Banking Code independently. Corporate governance in the United States As an SEC-registered company, ABN AMRO is subject to US securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as certain corporate governance rules in connection with ABN AMRO’s listing of NYSE Alternext debt. Following the introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, ABN AMRO established a Disclosure Committee that formalised the roles, tasks and disciplines that were already in place for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of information disclosed to the market. ABN AMRO’s report on internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act is included in this Annual Report 2009 that is also a Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. ABN AMRO proposes to its Shareholder that it adopts the 2009 financial statements, as included in this annual report, and discharges the Managing Board and Supervisory Board in respect of their management and supervision respectively. 79 ABN AMRO’s Human Resources As at 31 December 2009, ABN AMRO employed over 47,000 people working in over 50 countries. Throughout 2009 the primary activity of the HR Function has been focused on the ongoing separation and preparation for integration activities, and supporting managers and employees through the change process via dedicated communication channels such as dedicated integration web sites and working closely with employee representative bodies. Throughout the year there has been ongoing consultation and engagement with social partners on both integration and business as usual activity. When making organisational changes, ABN AMRO adheres to local labour regulations in our various countries and to agreements with unions or staff councils if these are in place. Although activity has centred on separation and integration, ABN AMRO has continued to review the Human Resources policies and processes to ensure ABN AMRO maintains a robust proposition ahead of integration to the respective consortium partner. Performance management, talent reviews and leadership and learning opportunities have remained a priority during 2009. Sustainability At ABN AMRO we believe that practising good business ethics in today’s world includes adopting a responsible approach to global problems such as climate change, environmental impairment, poverty and diversity. In line with this view, ABN AMRO aims to pursue corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) in a way that promotes a financially and socially sustainable business. As a bank, we play a key role in society by making our financial resources and expertise available to our clients. This is where our main strength lies. But we also pay close attention to the environmental, social and ethical aspects of our work. In our business decisions and our financial services we aspire to preserve a viable planet and promote the wellbeing of future generations. Though ABN AMRO has recently experienced turbulent times, we have always remained true to our sustainability policy principles. Accordingly, ABN AMRO continued to pursue a proactive sustainability policy in 2009. The sustainability policy is based on the following six pillars: · providing responsible financial services; · protecting our assets; · minimising our impact on the environment; · being accountable and transparent; · supporting local communities; and · being an employer of choice. 80 Section 6 Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 82 Accounting policies 82 Income statement 100 Statement of comprehensive income 100 Statement of financial position 101 Statement of changes in equity 102 Statement of cash flows 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 104 1. Segment reporting 104 2. Acquisitions and disposals 109 3. Net interest income 111 4. Net fee and commission income 111 5. Net trading income 111 6. Results from financial transactions 112 7. Other operating income 112 8. Personnel expenses 112 9. General and administrative expenses 113 10. Depreciation and amortisation 113 11. Tax 114 12. Other comprehensive income 115 13. Cash and balances at central banks 116 14. Financial assets and liabilities held for trading 116 15. Financial investments 118 16. Loans and receivables – Banks 118 17. Loans and receivables – Customers 118 18. Loan impairment charges and allowances 119 19. Equity accounted investments 121 20. Property and equipment 122 21. Goodwill and other intangible assets 123 22. Other assets 124 23. Due to banks 125 24. Due to customers 125 25. Issued debt securities 126 26. Provisions 127 27. Pensions and other post-retirement employee benefits 129 28. Recognised tax assets and liabilities 132 29. Other liabilities 132 30. Subordinated liabilities 133 31. Share capital 136 32. Professional securities transactions 137 33. Assets pledged as security 138 34. Commitments and contingent liabilities 139 35. Statement of cash flows 141 36. Hedge accounting 142 37. Fair value of financial instruments 145 38. Financial risk management 154 39. Use of derivatives 164 40. Securitisations and other risk mitigants 166 41. Private equity investments 167 42. Joint ventures 168 43. Remuneration of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board 169 44. Share-based payment plans 171 45. Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale 173 46. Related parties 175 47. Post balance sheet events 177 48. Major subsidiaries 178 49. Supplemental condensed consolidating financial information 180 81 SECTION 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting policies Corporate Information ABN AMRO Holding N.V. (‘ABN AMRO Holding’) is the parent company of the ABN AMRO consolidated group of companies (referred to as ‘ABN AMRO’). ABN AMRO Holding is a public limited liability company, incorporated under Dutch law on 30 May 1990, and registered at Gustav Mahlerlaan 10, 1082 PP Amsterdam, the Netherlands. ABN AMRO provides a broad range of financial services on a worldwide basis, including consumer, commercial and investment banking. On 17 October 2007 RFS Holdings B.V. (‘RFS Holdings’), a company incorporated by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc (‘RBS Group’), Fortis N.V., Fortis SA/NV (‘Fortis’) and Banco Santander S.A. (‘Santander’), acquired 85.6% of ABN AMRO Holding and applied for de-listing of its ordinary shares from Euronext Amsterdam and the New York Stock Exchange. The de-listing of the ABN AMRO Holding ordinary shares and the (formerly convertible) preference shares with a nominal value of €2.24 each from Euronext Amsterdam and the de-listing of its American Depositary Shares (‘ADSs’) from the New York Stock Exchange was effected on 25 April 2008. Through subsequent purchases RFS Holdings completed the acquisition of the remainder of the shares in ABN AMRO Holding from minority shareholders in 2008. As a result RFS Holdings is the sole shareholder of ABN AMRO Holding. On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired all Fortis’ businesses in the Netherlands, including the Fortis share in RFS Holdings. On 24 December 2008, the Dutch State purchased from Fortis Bank Nederland (Holding) N.V. its investment in RFS Holdings, to become a direct shareholder in RFS Holdings. RFS Holdings is controlled by RBS Group, which is incorporated in the UK and registered at 36 St. Andrew Square, Edinburgh, Scotland. RBS Group is the ultimate parent company of ABN AMRO Holding. The consolidated financial statements of ABN AMRO are included in the consolidated financial statements of RBS Group. As debt securities issued by ABN AMRO Holding or its subsidiaries are listed on the New York Stock Exchange the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) are applicable. This annual report complies with the SEC rules for foreign registrants and a cross reference table to the sections of the Form 20-F is included on page 189 of this report. The consolidated financial statements of ABN AMRO for the year ended 31 December 2009 incorporate financial information of ABN AMRO Holding, its controlled entities, and interests in associates and joint ventures. The consolidated financial statements were signed and authorised for issue by the Managing Board on 22 March 2010 and Supervisory Board on 25 March 2010. The right to request an amendment of the financial statements is embedded in the Netherlands Civil Code. Interested parties have the right to ask the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal for a revision of the financial statements. Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’). ABN AMRO does not utilise the portfolio hedging ‘carve out’ permitted by the EU. Accordingly, the accounting policies applied by ABN AMRO comply fully with IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). 82 Summary significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS on a mixed valuation model basis as follows: · Fair value is used for: derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading or designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, and available-for-sale financial assets, · Other financial assets (including ‘loans and receivables’) and liabilities are valued at amortised cost, · The carrying value of assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost included in a fair value hedge relationship is adjusted with respect to fair value changes resulting from the hedged risk, · Non-financial assets and liabilities are generally stated at historical cost. The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the presentation currency of ABN AMRO, rounded to the nearest million (unless otherwise noted). Adoption of IFRS standards and interpretations IAS 1 (revised 2007) Presentation of Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) The revised IAS 1 affects the presentation of owner changes in equity and of comprehensive income. Information is to be aggregated based on shared characteristics, specifically requiring disclosure of changes in equity arising from transactions with owners separate from other changes in equity. The Standard requires the entity to present all items of recognised income and expense including gains and losses either in one single statement or in two linked statements. In order to implement the revised IAS 1, ABN AMRO presents two statements, a separate income statement displaying components of profit or loss and a second statement, the statement of comprehensive income, which begins with profit or loss and displays components of other comprehensive income. The ‘owner’ changes in equity remain in the statement of changes in equity. In addition, the revised IAS 1 requires the entity to present a comparative statement of financial position as at the beginning of the earliest comparative period when the entity has applied an accounting policy retrospectively, makes a retrospective restatement, or reclassifies items in the financial statements. ABN AMRO has not provided a restated comparative set of financial position for the earliest comparative period, as it has not adopted any new accounting policies retrospectively, or has made a retrospective restatement, or retrospectively reclassified items in the statement of financial position. The Standard has also introduced a number of terminology changes, including revised titles for the financial statements. ABN AMRO has renamed the balance sheet to ‘statement of financial position’ and the cash flow statement to ‘statement of cash flows’. Adoption of the revised Standard has had no impact on the reported results or financial position of ABN AMRO. As described in note 1, ABN AMRO has made changes to the operating segments. The changes do not affect ABN AMRO’s results. Comparative data for the operating segments have been restated accordingly. IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ requires the presentation of a balance sheet as at the beginning of the earliest period when a company applies an accounting policy retrospectively. For ABN AMRO, this balance sheet would be as at 31 December 2007. However, the retrospective accounting for the changes made to the operating segments had no impact on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2007, and therefore that third balance sheet has not been represented in these Consolidated Financial Statements. Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) The amendments to IFRS 7 were issued in March 2009 to enhance fair value and liquidity disclosures. ABN AMRO has applied these amendments from 1 January 2009. The amendments require disclosure of a three-level fair value hierarchy, by class, for all financial instruments recognised at fair value, specific disclosures related to transfers between levels in the hierarchy and detailed disclosures related to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In addition, the amendments modify the required liquidity disclosures with respect to derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management. The notes to the consolidated financial statements provide detailed disclosures as required by the amendments. 83 Adoption of amendments to the following standards and interpretations did not have an impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of ABN AMRO: IAS 23 Borrowing costs (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) The revised standard eliminates the option of recognising borrowing costs immediately as an expense, to the extent that they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset. The current ABN AMRO policy requires capitalisation of borrowing costs where material related to the qualifying asset. Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) The amendment to IAS 32 requires certain puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation to be classified as equity if certain criteria are met. The amendments to IAS 1 require disclosure of certain information relating to puttable instruments classified as equity. ABN AMRO does not have such puttable instruments. Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) The amendment clarifies that vesting conditions comprise only service conditions and performance conditions. It also specifies the accounting treatment for a failure to meet a non-vesting condition. IFRS 8 Operating segments (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) ABN AMRO adopted IFRS 8 on 1 January 2007. The Standard replaces IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’ in setting out requirements for disclosure of information about an entity’s operating segments, revenues derived from its products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates and its major customers. Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2008 In May 2008, the IASB issued its first collection of amendments to its Standards, primarily with a view to remove inconsistencies and clarify wording. The amendments are generally effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. However, there are separate transitional provisions for each Standard. IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives (amendment issued in March 2009, effective for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009) This amendment of the interpretation clarifies that the assessment whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host contract on reclassification of a financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category shall be made on the basis of the circumstances that existed when the entity first became a party to the contract or when the contract was significantly modified, whichever is the later. IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008) This interpretation addresses how companies that grant their customers loyalty credits (often called ‘points’) when buying goods or services should account for their obligation to provide free or discounted goods or services if and when the customers redeem the points. Customer loyalty credits are required to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted. IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009) This interpretation standardises accounting practice across jurisdictions for the recognition of revenue by real estate developers before construction is complete. IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008) IFRIC 16 addresses three main issues. Firstly, the interpretation considers whether risk arises from (a) the foreign currency exposure to the functional currencies of the foreign operation and the parent entity, or from (b) the foreign currency exposure to the functional currency of the foreign operation and the presentation currency of the parent entity's consolidated financial statements. Secondly, it determines which entity within a group can hold a hedging instrument in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation and in particular 84 whether the parent entity holding the net investment in a foreign operation must also hold the hedging instrument. Finally it discusses how an entity should determine the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss or both the hedging instrument and the hedged item when the entity disposes of the investment. IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009) The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 18 ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’ in January 2009. The interpretation addresses the accounting by suppliers that receive assets from customers, requiring measurement at fair value. The interpretation is effective for assets received from customers on or after 1 July 2009. Critical accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make difficult, complex or subjective judgements and estimates, at times, regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. These judgements and estimates affect reported amounts and disclosures. Actual results could differ from those judgements and estimates. The most significant areas requiring management to make judgements and estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures are as follows: Allowance for loan losses Allowances for loan losses are made for estimated losses in outstanding loans for which there is doubt about the borrower’s capacity to repay the principal and/or the interest. The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the value of ABN AMRO’s loan assets for probable credit losses as of the balance sheet date. Allowances are determined through a combination of specific reviews, statistical modelling and estimates. Certain aspects require judgement, such as the identification of loans that are deteriorating, the determination of the probability of default, the expected loss, the value of collateral and current economic conditions. Though we consider the allowances for loan losses to be adequate, the use of different estimates and assumptions could produce different allowances for loan losses, and amendments to allowances may be required in the future, as a consequence of changes in the value of collateral, the amounts of cash to be received or other economic events. For a further discussion on our allowance for loan losses, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. Fair value of financial instruments For financial instruments that are actively traded and for which quoted market prices or market parameters are readily available, there is little subjectivity in the determination of fair value. However, when observable market prices and parameters do not exist, management judgement is necessary to estimate fair value. For instruments where no active liquid market exists, or quoted prices are unobtainable, recent market transactions are used or the fair value is estimated using a variety of valuation techniques – including reference to similar instruments for which market prices do exist or valuation models, such as discounted cash flow calculations or Black-Scholes. ABN AMRO refines and modifies its valuation techniques as markets and products develop and the pricing for such products becomes more or less transparent. Financial markets are sometimes subject to significant stress conditions where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values are accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, such as the events in the US sub-prime residential mortgage market starting in 2007. In such cases, observable market data may become less reliable or disappear altogether. Where there is doubt over the reliability of the market data due to either market illiquidity or unavailability, other valuation techniques are used. These alternative techniques would include scenario analysis and discounted cash flow calculations. Unobservable inputs are estimated using a combination of management judgement, historical data, market practice and benchmarking to other relevant observable market data. Where inputs to the valuation of a new transaction cannot be reliably sourced from external providers, the transaction is initially recognised at its transaction price. The difference between the transaction price and the internal valuation at inception, calculated using a model, is reserved and amortised to income at appropriate points over the life of the instrument, typically taking account of the ability to obtain reliable external data, the passage of time and the use of offsetting transactions. Subsequent changes in fair value as calculated by the valuation model are reported in income. 85 Fair values include appropriate adjustments to account for known inadequacies in the valuation models or to reflect the credit quality of the instrument or counterparty. Factors that could affect estimates are incorrect model assumptions, market dislocations and unexpected correlation. We believe our estimates of fair value are adequate. However, the use of different models or assumptions could result in changes in our reported results. For a further discussion on the use of fair values and the impact of applying reasonable possible alternative assumptions as inputs, see note 37 to the consolidated financial statements. Impairment of available-for-sale instruments A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the asset or on reclassification into available-for-sale from trading have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the assets. Significant management judgement is involved where the determination of future cash flows requires consideration of a number of variables, some of which may be unobservable in current market conditions. This is the case for more complex instruments such as asset backed securities, where factors such as the estimated cash flows on underlying pools of collateral and changes in national or local conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets are considered. Assessment of risks and rewards Whenever ABN AMRO is required to assess risks and rewards, when considering the recognition and derecognition of assets or liabilities and the consolidation and deconsolidation of subsidiaries, ABN AMRO may sometimes be required to use judgement. Although management uses its best knowledge of current events and actions in making assessments of expected risks and rewards, actual risks and rewards may ultimately differ. Pension and post-retirement benefits Significant pension and post-retirement benefit costs are based on actuarial calculations. Inherent within these calculations are assumptions including: discount rates, salary increases and the expected return on plan assets. Changes in pension and post-retirement costs may occur in the future as a consequence of changes in interest rates, the return on assets or other factors. For a further discussion on the underlying assumptions, see note 27 to our consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax Deferred tax assets arise from a variety of sources, the most significant being: (a) tax losses that can be carried forward to be utilised against profits in future years; and (b) valuation changes of assets which need to be tax effected for accounting purposes but are taxable only when the valuation change is realised. The level of deferred tax asset recognition is influenced by management's assessment of ABN AMRO's historic and future profitability profile. At each balance sheet date, existing assessments are reviewed and, if necessary, revised to reflect changed circumstances. In a situation where recent losses have been incurred, the relevant accounting standards require convincing evidence that there will be sufficient future tax capacity. Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements are prepared annually for the year ended 31 December and include the parent company and its controlled subsidiaries as well as joint ventures on a proportionate share basis. Subsidiaries are included using the same reporting period and consistent accounting policies. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by ABN AMRO. Control is deemed to exist when ABN AMRO has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account when assessing whether control exists. ABN AMRO sponsors the formation of entities, including certain special purpose entities, which may or may not be directly owned, for the purpose of asset securitisation transactions and other narrow and well-defined objectives. Particularly in the case of securitisations these entities may acquire assets from other group companies. Some of these entities hold assets that are not available to meet the claims of creditors of ABN AMRO or any of its subsidiaries. Such entities are consolidated in ABN AMRO’s financial statements when 86 the substance of the relationship between ABN AMRO and the entity indicates that control is held by ABN AMRO. The financial statements of subsidiaries and special purpose entities are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases. Equity attributable to non-controlling interests is shown separately in the consolidated balance sheet as part of total equity. Current period profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests is presented as an attribution of profit for the year. Business combinations IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ was adopted for all business combinations taking place after 1 January 2004. Goodwill on acquisitions prior to this date was charged against equity. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The excess of the cost of acquisition over ABN AMRO’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets (including certain contingent liabilities) acquired is recorded as goodwill. In a step acquisition, where a business combination occurs in stages and control of the business is obtained in stages, all assets and liabilities of the acquired business, excluding goodwill, are adjusted to their fair values at the date of the latest share acquisition transaction. Fair value adjustments relating to existing holdings are recorded directly in equity. Equity accounted investments Equity accounted investments comprises associates. Associates are those enterprises in which ABN AMRO has significant influence (this is generally assumed when ABN AMRO holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights), but not control, over the operating and financial policies. Investments in associates of a private equity nature are designated to be held at fair value with changes through profit or loss, consistent with the management basis for such investments. Other investments in associates including ABN AMRO’s strategic investments, are accounted for using the ‘Net equity method’ and presented as ‘Equity accounted investments’. Under this method the investment is initially recorded at cost and subsequently increased (or decreased) for post acquisition net income (or loss), other movements impacting the equity of the investee and any adjustments required for impairment. ABN AMRO’s share of profit or loss of the investee is recognised and separately disclosed in ABN AMRO’s income statement. When ABN AMRO’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, the carrying amount is reduced to zero, including any other unsecured receivables, and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that ABN AMRO has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee. Jointly controlled entities Jointly controlled entities are those enterprises over whose activities ABN AMRO has joint control, established by contractual agreement. The consolidated financial statements include ABN AMRO’s proportionate share of these enterprises’ assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses on a line-by-line basis, from the date on which joint control commences until the date on which joint control ceases. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations A non-current asset (or disposal groups) is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction planned to occur within 12 months, rather than through continuing use. The asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Held for sale assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Assets and liabilities of a business held for sale are separately presented. Businesses that may be transferred to shareholders by means of a distribution will not be presented as businesses held for sale. The results of discontinued operations, an operation held for sale that represents a separate major line of business or a geographical area of operation, are presented in the income statement as a single amount comprising the net results of the discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss realised on disposal. Comparative income statement data is re-presented if in the current period an activity qualifies as a discontinued operation and qualifies for separate presentation. 87 Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any related unrealised gains, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of ABN AMRO’s interest in the enterprise. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment in the asset transferred. Currency translation differences The financial performance of ABN AMRO’s foreign operations, conducted through branches, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, is reported using the currency (‘functional currency’) that best reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to that entity. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and purchase accounting adjustments, are translated to ABN AMRO’s presentation currency, the euro, at the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to the euro at the rates prevailing at the end of the month. Currency translation differences arising on these translations are recognised directly in equity (‘currency translation account’). Exchange differences recorded in equity, arising after transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004, are included in the income statement on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation. Transactions in a currency that differs from the functional currency of the transacting entity are translated into the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate at transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at reporting date are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date. Non-monetary assets accounted for at cost and denominated in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of initial recognition. Non-monetary assets accounted for at fair value in a foreign currency are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was determined. Currency translation differences on all monetary financial assets and liabilities are included in foreign exchange gains and losses in trading income. Translation differences on non-monetary items (such as equities) held at fair value through profit or loss are also reported through income and, for those classified as available-for-sale, directly in equity within ‘Net unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale assets’. Fiduciary activities ABN AMRO commonly acts as trustee and in other fiduciary capacities that entail either the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts or other institutions. These assets are not assets of ABN AMRO and are therefore not included in these financial statements. Income statement Interest income and expenses Interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method. The application of this method includes the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences, including transaction costs and qualifying fees and commissions, between the initial carrying amount of an interest-bearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest rate basis. This item does not include interest income and expense in relation to trading balances which is included within net trading income. Fee and commission income Fees and commissions are recognised as follows: · Fees and commissions generated as an integral part of negotiating and arranging a funding transaction with customers, such as the issuance of loans are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate and are included in interest income and expense. · Fees and commissions generated for transactions or discrete acts are recognised when the transaction or act is completed. · Fees and commissions dependent on the outcome of a particular event or contingent upon performance are recognised when the relevant criteria have been met. 88 · Service fees are typically recognised on a straight-line basis over the service contract period; portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts. · Asset management fees related to investment funds are also recognised over the period the service is provided. This principle is also applied to the recognition of income from wealth management, financial planning and custody services that are provided over an extended period. Net trading income Net trading income includes gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities held for trading, interest income, dividends received from trading instruments as well as related funding costs. Dividend income from trading instruments is recognised when entitlement is established. Net trading income also includes changes in fair value arising from changes in counter-party credit spreads and changes in ABN AMRO’s credit spreads where it impacts the value of ABN AMRO’s derivative liabilities. The charge related to the write-off of trading instruments is included in trading income. Results from financial transactions Results from financial transactions include gains and losses on the sale of non-trading financial assets and liabilities, ineffectiveness of certain hedging programmes, the change in fair value of derivatives used to hedge credit risks that are not included in hedge accounting relationships, fair value changes relating to assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and changes in the value of any related derivatives. For liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss it includes changes in ABN AMRO credit spreads. Dividend income from non-trading equity investments, excluding associated companies is recognised in results from financial transactions when entitlement is established. Segment reporting Operating segments are the segments that engage in business activities from which the bank earns income and incurs expenses. These segments are the reporting segments whose operating results are reviewed by the Managing Board on a monthly basis. Geographical data is presented according to the location of the transacting group entity. Financial assets and liabilities Measurement classifications ABN AMRO classifies its financial assets and liabilities into the following measurement (‘valuation’) categories: Financial instruments held for trading are those that ABN AMRO holds primarily for the purpose of short-term profit-taking. These include shares, interest-earning securities, derivatives held for trading and liabilities from short sales of financial instruments. Derivatives are financial instruments that require little or no initial net investment, with future settlements dependent on a reference benchmark index, rate or price (such as interest rates or equity prices). Changes in expected future cash flows in response to changes in the underlying benchmark determine the fair value of derivatives. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They generally arise when ABN AMRO provides money or services directly to a customer with no intention of trading or selling the loan. Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets quoted on an active market with fixed or determinable payments (i.e. debt instruments) and a fixed maturity that ABN AMRO has the intention and ability to hold to maturity. As of 31 December 2008 ABN AMRO no longer classifies financial assets into the held-to-maturity category and due to tainting rules can not do so until 31 December 2010. Designated at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets and financial liabilities that ABN AMRO upon initial recognition designates to be measured at fair value with changes reported in profit or loss. Such a designation is done if: · The instrument includes an embedded derivative that would otherwise require separation. This applies to certain structured notes issued with hybrid features. Fair value measurement helps to achieve offset against changes in the value of derivatives and other fair value positions used to economically hedge these notes. 89 · The designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise. In this regard unit-linked investments held for the account and risk of policyholders and the related obligation to policyholders are designated at fair value with changes through profit or loss. · It relates to a portfolio of financial assets and/or liabilities that are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy. This is applied to equity investments of a private equity nature. Available-for-sale assets include interest-earning assets that have either been designated as available for sale or do not fit into one of the categories described above. Equity investments held without significant influence, which are not held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss are classified as available-for-sale. Non-trading financial liabilities that are not designated at fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost. Recognition and derecognition Traded instruments are recognised on trade date, defined as the date on which ABN AMRO commits to purchase or sell the underlying instrument. In the infrequent event when settlement terms are non-standard the commitment is accounted for as a derivative between trade and settlement date. Loans and receivables are recognised when they are acquired or funded by ABN AMRO and derecognised when settled. Issued debt is recognised when issued and deposits are recognised when the cash is deposited with ABN AMRO. Other financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives, are recognised in the balance sheet when ABN AMRO becomes party to the contractual provisions of the asset or liability. Financial assets are generally derecognised when ABN AMRO loses control and the ability to obtain benefits over the contractual rights that comprise that asset. This occurs when the rights are realised, expire, substantially all risk and rewards are transferred, or not substantially all risk and rewards are transferred nor retained, although control is transferred. If a servicing function is retained, which is profitable, a servicing asset is recognised. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligations specified in the contract are discharged, cancelled or expire. Financial assets continue to be recognised in the balance sheet, and liabilities recognised for the proceeds of any related funding transaction, unless a fully proportional share of all or specifically identified cash flows are transferred to the lender without material delay and the lender’s claim is limited to those cash flows and substantially all the risks and returns and control associated with the financial instruments have been transferred, in which case that proportion of the asset is derecognised. ABN AMRO derecognises financial liabilities when settled or if ABN AMRO repurchases its own debt. The difference between the former carrying amount and the consideration paid is included in results from financial transactions in income. Any subsequent resale is treated as a new issuance. ABN AMRO has securitised various consumer and commercial financial assets. This process generally necessitates a sale of these assets to a special purpose entity (SPE), which in turn issues securities to investors. ABN AMRO’s interests in securitised assets may be retained in the form of senior or subordinated tranches, issued guarantees, interest-only strips or other residual interests, together referred to as retained interest. In many cases these retained interests convey control, such that the SPE is consolidated, and the securitised assets continue to be recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. Measurement All trading instruments and financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value are measured at fair value, with transaction costs related to the purchase as well as fair value changes recorded through profit or loss. The measurement of liabilities held at fair value includes the effect of changes in own credit spreads. The change in fair value applies to those financial liabilities designated at fair value where ABN AMRO’s own credit risk would be considered by market participants and excludes instruments for which it is established market practice not to include an entity-specific adjustment for own credit. The fair value changes are calculated based on a yield curve generated from observed external pricing for funding and quoted CDS data. 90 All derivatives are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value with changes recorded through profit or loss except when designated in a cash flow or net investment hedge relationship (see hedge accounting below). Available-for-sale assets are held at fair value with unrealised gains and losses recognised directly in equity, net of applicable taxes. Premiums, discounts and qualifying transaction costs of interest-earning available-for-sale assets are amortised to interest income on an effective interest rate basis. When available-for-sale assets are sold, collected or impaired the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to results from financial transactions in income. All other financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at cost including directly attributable incremental transaction costs. They are subsequently valued at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Through use of the effective interest rate method, premiums and discounts, including qualifying transaction costs, included in the carrying amount of the related instrument are amortised over the period to maturity or expected prepayment on the basis of the instrument’s original effective interest rate. When available, fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active liquid markets. For instruments where no active liquid market exists, or quoted prices are unobtainable, recent market transactions are used or the fair value is estimated using a variety of valuation techniques – including reference to similar instruments for which market prices do exist or valuation models, such as discounted cash flow or Black-Scholes. ABN AMRO refines and modifies its valuation techniques as markets and products develop and the pricing for individual products becomes more transparent. Valuation models are validated prior to use by staff independent of the initial selection or creation of the models. Wherever possible, inputs to valuation models represent observable market data from reliable external data sources. Unobservable inputs are estimated using a combination of management judgement, historical data, market practice and benchmarking to other relevant observable market data. Where significant inputs to the valuation of a new transaction cannot be reliably sourced from external providers, the transaction is initially recognised at its transaction price. The difference between the transaction price and the internal valuation at inception, calculated using a model, is reserved and amortised to income at appropriate points over the life of the instrument, typically taking account of the ability to obtain reliable external data, the passage of time and the use of offsetting transactions. Subsequent changes in fair value as calculated by the valuation model are reported in income. Fair values include appropriate adjustments to account for known inadequacies and uncertainties in valuation models or to reflect the credit quality of the instrument or counterparty. The change in fair value of notes designated at fair value through profit or loss attributable to changes in credit risk are calculated by reference to the credit spread implicit in the market value of ABN AMRO’s senior notes. Reclassifications Derivatives are not reclassified into and out of the fair value through profit or loss category whilst they are held or issued. Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition may not be reclassified out of that category. Non-derivative financial assets classified as held for trading upon initial recognition, if they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category if certain requirements are met. No financial instrument may be reclassified into the fair value through profit or loss category after initial recognition. Professional securities transactions Securities borrowing and securities lending transactions are generally entered into on a collateralised basis, with securities usually advanced or received as collateral. The transfer of the securities themselves is not reflected on the balance sheet unless the risks and rewards of ownership are also transferred. If cash is advanced or received, securities borrowing and lending activities are recorded at the amount of cash advanced (included in loans and receivables) or received (due to banks or customers). The market value of the securities borrowed and lent is monitored on a daily basis, and the collateral levels are adjusted in accordance with the underlying transactions. Fees and interest received or paid are recognised on an effective interest basis and recorded as interest income or interest expense. 91 Sale and repurchase transactions involve purchases (sales) of investments with agreements to resell (repurchase) substantially identical investments at a certain date in the future at a fixed price. Investments purchased subject to commitments to resell them at future dates are not recognised. The amounts paid are recognised in loans and receivables to either banks or customers. The receivables are shown as collateralised by the underlying security. Investments sold under repurchase agreements continue to be recognised in the balance sheet. The proceeds from the sale of the investments are reported as liabilities to either banks or customers. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is recognised over the period of the transaction and recorded as interest income or interest expense. Netting and collateral ABN AMRO enters into master netting arrangements with counterparties wherever possible, and when appropriate, obtains collateral. If ABN AMRO has the right on the grounds of either legal or contractual provisions and the intention to settle financial assets and liabilities net or simultaneously, these are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet. Due to differences in the timing of actual cash flows, derivatives with positive and negative fair values are generally not netted, even if they are held with the same counterparty. Hedge accounting Derivative instruments are used to manage exposures to interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks, including exposures arising from forecast transactions. Fair value, cash flow or net investment hedging is applied to qualifying transactions that are documented as such at inception. The hedged item can be an asset, liability, highly probable forecast transaction or net investment in a foreign operation that (a) exposes the entity to risk of changes in fair value or future cash flows and (b) is designated as being hedged. The risk being hedged (the ‘hedged risk’) is typically changes in interest rates or foreign currency rates. ABN AMRO also enters into credit risk derivatives (sometimes referred to as ‘credit default swaps’) for managing portfolio credit risk. However, these are generally not included in hedge accounting relationships. Both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, ABN AMRO formally assesses whether the derivatives used in its hedging transactions have been highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item, by assessing and measuring whether changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item are offset by the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging instrument. Hedge ineffectiveness represents the amount by which the changes in the fair value of the derivative are in excess of changes: · in the fair value of the hedged item in a fair value hedge, or · in the value of a net investment in a foreign operation hedge, or · in the fair value change of the expected cash flow in a cash flow hedge. Hedge ineffectiveness and gains and losses on components of a derivative that are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are recorded directly in profit or loss. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge relationship has ceased to be effective or is no longer expected to be effective, or when the derivative or hedged item is sold or otherwise terminated. Fair value hedges Where a derivative financial instrument hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised or committed assets or liabilities, the hedged item is adjusted in relation to the risk being hedged. Gains or losses on re-measurement of both the hedging instrument and the hedged item are recognised in the income statement, typically within results from financial transactions. When a fair value hedge of interest rate risk is terminated, any value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability is amortised to income over the original designated hedging period or taken directly to income if the hedged item is sold, settled or impaired. Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument hedges the exposure to variability in the cash flows from recognised assets, liabilities or anticipated transactions, the effective part of any gain or loss on re-measurement of the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity. When a cash flow hedging instrument or hedge 92 relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity remains in equity. The cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement at the time when the hedged transaction affects net profit or loss and included in the same line item as the gain or loss on the hedged transaction. In the exceptional case that the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately. Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation ABN AMRO uses foreign currency derivatives and currency borrowings to hedge various net investments in foreign operations. For such hedges, currency translation differences arising on translation of these instruments to euro are recognised directly in the currency translation account in equity, insofar as they are effective. The cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss on the disposal of the foreign operation. Derivatives upon which ABN AMRO applies hedge accounting have been disclosed in note 22 ‘Other assets’ and note 29 ‘Other liabilities’. Impairment of financial assets ABN AMRO assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a portfolio of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are recognised if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and prior to the balance sheet date (‘a loss event’) and that event adversely impacts estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the portfolio. Loans and receivables An indication that a loan may be impaired is obtained through ABN AMRO’s credit review processes, which include monitoring customer payments and regular loan reviews of commercial clients every 6 or 12 months depending on the rating of the facility. ABN AMRO first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists for loans (including any related facilities and guarantees) that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for loans that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed loan, the asset is included in a portfolio of loans with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. Loans that are evaluated individually for impairment are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the loan’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate. The amount of the loss is recognised using an allowance account and the amount of the loss is included in the income statement line loan impairment and other credit risk provisions. The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows of a collateralised financial asset reflects the cash flows that are likely to result from foreclosure less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral. Future cash flows of a group of loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows of the loans in the portfolio and historical loss experience for loans with credit risk characteristics similar to those in ABN AMRO. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the historical data and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical data that do not currently exist. The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. The impact of changes in estimates and recoveries is recorded in the income statement line loan impairment and other credit risk provisions. Following impairment, interest income continues to be recognised using the original effective rate of interest. When a loan is deemed no longer collectible, it is written off against the related allowance for loan impairment. Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed and the 93 amount of the loss has been determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement line loan impairment and other credit risk provisions. Assets acquired in exchange for loans to achieve an orderly realisation are reflected in the balance sheet as a disposal of the loan and an acquisition of a new asset, initially booked at fair value. Although the decrease in estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of loans cannot yet be identified with the individual loans in the portfolio, there may be indications that there is a measurable decrease. These include adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the portfolio and national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults in the portfolio. This is dealt with through an allowance for incurred but not identified losses. Renegotiated loans Where possible, ABN AMRO seeks to restructure loans rather than to take possession of collateral. This may involve extending the payment arrangements and the agreement of new loan conditions. Once the items have been renegotiated, the loan is no longer considered past due. Management continuously reviews renegotiated loans to ensure that all criteria are met and that future payments are likely to occur. The loans continue to be subject to an individual or collective impairment assessment, calculated using the loan’s original effective interest rate. Other financial assets In the case of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is also considered in determining whether impairment exists. Where such evidence exists, the cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised directly in equity is moved from equity and recognised in the income statement within results from financial transactions. ABN AMRO performs a review of individual available-for-sale securities on a regular basis to determine whether any evidence of impairment exists. This review considers factors such as any reduction in fair value below cost, its direction and whether the reduction is significant or prolonged, and the credit standing and prospects of the issuer. Property and equipment Own use assets Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any amount for impairment. If an item of property and equipment is comprised of several major components with different useful lives, each component is accounted for separately. Additions and subsequent expenditures (including interest) are capitalised only to the extent that they enhance the future economic benefits expected to be derived from the asset. Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an asset is separately capitalised and the replaced component is written off. Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefit of the item of property and equipment. All other expenditure, including maintenance, is recognised in the income statement as incurred. When an item of property and equipment is retired or disposed, the difference between the carrying amount and the disposal proceeds net of costs is recognised in other operating income. Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property and equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately. ABN AMRO generally uses the following estimated useful lives: · Land not depreciated · Buildings 25 to 50 years · Equipment 5 to 12 years · Computer installations 2 to 5 years. Depreciation rates and residual values are reviewed at least annually to take into account any change in circumstances. Capitalised leasehold improvements are depreciated in a manner that takes into account the term and renewal conditions of the related lease. Leasing As lessee: most of the leases that ABN AMRO has entered into are classified as operating leases (including property rental). The total payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income 94 statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. When it is decided that an operating lease will be terminated or vacated before the lease period has expired, the lesser of any penalty payments required and the remaining payments due once vacated (less sub-leasing income) is recognised as an expense. As lessor: assets subject to operational leases are included in property and equipment. The asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful life to its estimated residual value. Leases where ABN AMRO transfers substantially all the risks and rewards resulting from ownership of an asset to the lessee are classified as finance leases. A receivable at an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments, using the implicit interest rate, including any guaranteed residual value, is recognised. Finance lease receivables are included in loans and receivables to customers. Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of ABN AMRO’s share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets at the date of acquisition, is capitalised and stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of calculating goodwill, the fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to market values or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value. If the recognition of the assessed fair value of acquired assets and liabilities at the time of acquisition took place on the basis of provisional amounts any changes in the assessed fair value of acquired assets and liabilities at the time of acquisition identified within one year following the acquisition are corrected against goodwill. Any revisions identified after one year are recorded in income. Goodwill on the acquisition of equity accounted investments is included in the carrying amount of the investment. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity, including equity accounted investments, are determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the entity including related goodwill and any currency translation differences recorded in equity. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual test for impairment or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. Software Costs that are directly associated with identifiable software products that are controlled by ABN AMRO, and likely to generate future economic benefits exceeding these costs, are recognised as intangible assets and stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any adjustment for impairment losses. Expenditure that enhances or extends the performance of computer software beyond its original specification is recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software. Software is amortised over 3 to 7 years. Amortisation rates and residual values are reviewed at least annually to take into account any change in circumstances. Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by ABN AMRO are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any adjustment for impairment losses. Other intangible assets are comprised of separately identifiable items arising from acquisition of subsidiaries, such as customer relationships, and certain purchased trademarks and similar items. Amortisation is charged to the income statement systematically over the estimated useful lives of the intangible asset. Amortisation rates and residual values are reviewed at least annually to take into account any change in circumstances. Impairment of property and equipment and intangible assets Property and equipment and intangibles are assessed at each balance sheet date or more frequently, to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the assets are subject to an impairment review. 95 Regardless of any indications of potential impairment, the carrying amount of goodwill is subject to a detailed impairment review at least annually. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset that generates largely independent cash flows or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. To calculate value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market rates and the risks specific to the asset. When conducting impairment reviews, particularly for goodwill, cash-generating units are the lowest level at which management monitors the return on investment on assets. The impairment analysis of goodwill and other intangibles requires management to make subjective judgements concerning estimates of how the acquired asset will perform in the future using a discounted cash flow analysis. Events and factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behaviours and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends and changes in discount rates and specific industry or market sector conditions. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement as a component of depreciation and amortisation expense. An impairment loss with respect to goodwill is not reversible. Other impairment losses are reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had previously been recognised. Pension and other post-retirement benefits For employees in the Netherlands and the majority of staff employed outside the Netherlands, pension or other retirement plans have been established in accordance with the regulations and practices of the countries in question. Separate pension funds or third parties administer most of these plans. The plans include both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, contributions are charged directly to the income statement in the year to which they relate. The net obligations under defined benefit plans are regarded as ABN AMRO’s own commitments regardless of whether these are administered by a pension fund or in some other manner. The net obligation of each plan is determined as the difference between the benefit obligations and the plan assets. Defined benefit plan pension commitments are calculated in accordance with the projected unit credit method of actuarial cost allocation. Under this method, the present value of pension commitments is determined on the basis of the number of active years of service up to the balance sheet date and the estimated employee salary at the time of the expected retirement date, and is discounted using the market rate of interest on high-quality corporate bonds. The plan assets are measured at fair value. Pension costs for the year are established at the beginning of the year based on the expected service and interest costs and the expected return on the plan assets, plus the impact of any current period curtailments or plan changes. Differences between the expected and the actual return on plan assets, as well as actuarial gains and losses, are only recognised as income or expense when the net cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains and losses at the end of the previous reporting year exceed 10% of the greater of the commitments under the plan and the fair value of the related plan assets. The part in excess of 10% is recognised in income over the expected remaining years of service of the employees participating in the plans. Differences between the pension costs determined in this way and the contributions payable are accounted for as provisions or prepayments. Commitments relating to early retirement of employees are treated as pension commitments. When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the past service cost is recognised immediately in the income statement. ABN AMRO’s net obligation with respect to long-term service benefits and post-retirement healthcare is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method. It is then discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. 96 Share-based payments to employees Until 2007, ABN AMRO engaged in equity and cash settled share-based payment transactions in respect of services received from certain of its employees. The cost of the services received was measured by reference to the fair value of the shares or share options granted on the date of the grant. The cost related to the shares or share options granted was recognised in the income statement over the period that the services of the employees were received, which was the vesting period, with a corresponding credit in equity for equity settled schemes and a credit in liabilities for cash settled schemes. For cash settled schemes the fair value of the plan was determined for each reporting period and the changes were recognised in the income statement. In addition, ABN AMRO recognised the effects of modifications that increased the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangements or were otherwise beneficial to the employee in the income statement. The fair value of the options granted was determined using option pricing models, which took into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk free interest rate, the volatility of the ABN AMRO share price over the life of the option and the terms and conditions of the grant. Non-market vesting conditions were taken into account by adjusting the number of shares or share options included in the measurement of the cost of employee services, so that ultimately the amount cumulatively recognised in the income statement would reflect the number of shares or share options that eventually vested. Where vesting conditions were related to market conditions, these were fully reflected in the fair value initially determined at grant date and as a result, the charges for the services received were recognised regardless of whether or not the market related vesting condition was met, provided that the non-market vesting conditions were met. In case of cancellation or settlement of a grant of shares or share options during the vesting period, the amount that otherwise would be recognised over the remainder of the vesting period was immediately recognised in the income statement. Any payment made to the employee upon the cancellation or settlement of the grant was accounted for as a deduction from equity for equity settled schemes and as a deduction from the liability for the cash settled schemes. Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when ABN AMRO has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. If the effect of time value is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market rates and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. A provision for restructuring is recognised when an obligation exists. An obligation exists when ABN AMRO has approved a detailed plan and has raised a valid expectation in those affected by the plan by starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features. Future operating costs are not provided for. Provisions for insurance risks are determined by actuarial methods, which include the use of statistics, interest rate data and settlement costs expectations. Other liabilities Obligations to policyholders, whose return is dependent on the return of unit linked investments recognised in the balance sheet, are measured at fair value with changes through income. Tax – current and deferred Tax payable on profits, based on the applicable tax law in each jurisdiction, is recognised as an expense in the period in which profits arise. The future tax benefit of tax losses available for carry forward is recognised as an asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised. Deferred tax is also recognised for qualifying temporary differences. Temporary differences represent the difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future and the timing of such reversals is controlled by ABN AMRO. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to 97 the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are only offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both the legal right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously. Issued debt and equity securities Issued debt securities are recorded on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest rate method, unless they are of a hybrid/structured nature and designated to be held at fair value through profit or loss. Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities where the substance of the contractual arrangement results in ABN AMRO having a present obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset or to satisfy the obligation other than by the exchange of a fixed number of equity shares. Preference shares that carry a non-discretionary coupon or are redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the holder are classified as liabilities. The dividends and fees on preference shares classified as a liability are recognised as interest expense. Issued financial instruments, or their components, are classified as equity when they do not qualify as a liability and represent a residual interest in the assets of ABN AMRO. Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary. The components of issued financial instruments that contain both liability and equity elements are accounted for separately with the equity component being assigned the residual amount after deducting from the instrument’s initial value the fair value of the liability component. Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classified as equity are recognised as a distribution of equity in the period in which they are approved by shareholders. Share capital Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from equity net of any related taxes. When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including incremental directly attributable costs net of taxes, is recognised as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is added to shareholders’ equity. Other equity components Currency translation account The currency translation account is comprised of all currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations net of the translation impact on liabilities or foreign exchange derivatives held to hedge ABN AMRO’s net investment. These currency differences are included in profit or loss on disposal of the operation. Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve is comprised of the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments, net of taxes, related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred. Net unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale assets In this component, gains and losses arising from a change in the fair value of available-for-sale assets are recognised, net of taxes. When the relevant assets are sold, impaired or otherwise disposed of, the related cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement. Statement of cash flows Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows include cash in hand, deposits available on demand with central banks and net credit balances on current accounts with other banks. The statement of cash flows, based on the indirect method of calculation, gives details of the source of cash and cash equivalents which became available during the year and the application of these cash and cash 98 equivalents over the course of the year. The cash flows are analysed into cash flows from operations, including banking activities, investment activities and financing activities. Movements in loans and receivables and inter-bank deposits are included in the cash flow from operating activities. Investment activities are comprised of acquisitions, sales and redemptions in respect of financial investments, as well as investments in and sales of subsidiaries and associates, property and equipment. The issuing of shares and the borrowing and repayment of long-term funds are treated as financing activities. Movements due to currency translation differences as well as the effects of the consolidation of acquisitions, where of material significance, are eliminated from the cash flow figures. The cash flows of discontinued operations are separately reported in the period in which the operation qualifies as a held for sale business. The presentation of the statement of cash flows for 2007 has been amended to conform to the 2009 and 2008 presentation which does not separately disclose discontinued operations. Future changes in accounting policies ABN AMRO expects to adopt the following amended standards and interpretations with effect from 1 January 2010, where applicable pending their endorsement by the EU. The International Accounting Standards Board published a revised IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ and related revisions to IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ following the completion in January 2008 of its project on the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries. The standards improve convergence with US GAAP and provide new guidance on accounting for changes in interests in subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition will comprise only consideration paid to vendors for equity; other costs will be expensed immediately. Acquirers will only account for goodwill on acquisition on obtaining control; subsequent changes in interest will be recognised in other comprehensive income and only on a loss of control will a profit or loss on disposal be recognised in profit or loss. The changes are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. These changes will affect ABN AMRO’s accounting for future acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries. In May 2008, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ and IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ that change the investor’s accounting for the cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate. It does not affect the consolidated accounts but may prospectively affect the ABN AMRO Holding’s accounting and presentation of receipts of dividends from such entities. The IASB issued amendments to a number of standards in April 2009 as part of its annual improvements project. The amendments are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 and are not expected to have a material effect on ABN AMRO. The IASB issued an amendment, ‘Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions‘, to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ in June 2009 that will change the accounting for share awards by permitting accounting for equity settlement only by entities that either grant awards over their own equity or have no obligation to settle a share-based payment transaction. The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 and is not expected to have a material effect on ABN AMRO. The IASB published an amendment ‘Classification of Rights Issues’ to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and consequential revisions to other standards in October 2009 to improve the accounting for issues of equity for consideration fixed other than in the reporting entity’s functional currency. The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010. It is not expected to have a material affect on ABN AMRO. The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) issued interpretation IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners’ and the IASB made consequential amendments to IFRS 5 ‘Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ in December 2008. The interpretation requires distributions to be presented at fair value with any surplus or deficit to be recognised in profit or loss. The amendment to IFRS 5 extends the definition of disposal groups and discontinued operations to disposals by way of distribution. The interpretation is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, to be adopted at the same time as IAS 27 (as amended in May 2008). The implementation of IFRIC 17 is expected to have a material effect on ABN AMRO if a distribution in kind or a sale that in substance must be considered a distribution in kind is adopted as the mechanism for the legal separation for the Dutch State acquired businesses. 99 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 2007 Interest income 13,295 22,080 22,734 Interest expense 8,647 16,297 18,139 Net interest income 3 4,648 5,783 4,595 Fee and commission income 2,742 3,068 4,181 Fee and commission expense 521 439 329 Net fee and commission income 4 2,221 2,629 3,852 Net trading income/(loss) 5 1,562 (9,324 ) 1,119 Results from financial transactions 6 (2,206 ) (1,684 ) 1,134 Share of result in equity accounted investments 19 25 106 223 Other operating income 7 8 306 1,239 Income of consolidated private equity holdings 41 436 1,726 3,836 Total income/(loss) 6,694 (458 ) 15,998 Personnel expenses 8 4,119 5,236 6,363 General and administrative expenses 9 3,486 4,070 4,821 Depreciation and amortisation 10 982 1,045 857 Goods and materials of consolidated private equity holdings 41 228 1,278 2,744 Operating expenses 8,815 11,629 14,785 Loan impairment and other credit risk provisions 18 2,793 3,387 717 Total expenses 11,608 15,016 15,502 Operating profit/(loss) before tax (4,914 ) (15,474 ) 496 Tax 11 (415 ) (2,580 ) (458 ) Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (4,499 ) (12,894 ) 954 Profit from discontinued operations net of tax 45 99 16,489 9,021 Profit/(loss) for the year (4,400 ) 3,595 9,975 Attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company (4,399 ) 3,580 9,848 Non-controlling interests (1 ) 15 127 Numbers stated against items refer to notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 2007 Profit/(loss) for the period (4,400 ) 3,595 9,975 Other comprehensive income/(loss): Currency translation account (296 ) (244 ) (17 ) Available-for-sale financial assets 20 (429 ) (1,209 ) Cash flow hedging reserve (254 ) (1,218 ) 492 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 138 422 247 Other comprehensive loss for the period, net of tax 12 (392 ) (1,469 ) (487 ) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period, net of tax (4,792 ) 2,126 9,488 Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to: Owners of the parent company (4,797 ) 2,218 9,499 Non-controlling interests 5 (92 ) (11 ) (4,792 ) 2,126 9,488 Numbers stated against items refer to the notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 100 Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 13 28,382 5,854 Financial assets held for trading 14 78,058 212,653 Financial investments 15 74,897 67,061 Loans and receivables - banks 16 39,659 75,566 Loans and receivables - customers 17 218,246 270,507 Equity accounted investments 19 856 796 Property and equipment 20 1,961 2,035 Goodwill and other intangibles 21 645 924 Assets of businesses held for sale 45 4,889 1,583 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 5,871 7,011 Tax assets 28 6,022 5,100 Other assets 22 9,859 17,727 Total assets 469,345 666,817 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 14 62,687 192,087 Due to banks 23 46,145 94,620 Due to customers 24 196,648 209,004 Issued debt securities 25 95,660 111,296 Provisions 26 4,790 4,144 Liabilities of businesses held for sale 45 8,894 864 Accrued expenses and deferred income 6,994 8,418 Tax liabilities 28 578 700 Other liabilities 29 13,489 15,012 Subordinated liabilities 30 14,544 13,549 Total Liabilities 450,429 649,694 Equity Share capital 31 1,852 1,852 Share premium 31 11,943 5,343 Retained earnings 6,697 11,096 Net gains/(losses) not recognised in the income statement (1,612 ) (1,214 ) Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company 18,880 17,077 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 36 46 Total equity 18,916 17,123 Total equity and liabilities 469,345 666,817 Guarantees and other commitments 34 36,767 42,148 Committed credit facilities 34 51,520 63,436 Numbers stated against items refer to the notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 101 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 2007 Share capital31 Balance at 1 January 1,852 1,085 1,085 Conversion of preference shares to ordinary shares - 767 - Balance at 31 December 1,852 1,852 1,085 Share premium Balance at 1 January 5,343 5,332 5,245 Share-based payments - 10 145 Conversion of preference shares to ordinary shares - 1 - Dividends paid in shares - - (58 ) Share premium increase 31 6,600 - - Balance at 31 December 11,943 5,343 5,332 Treasury shares31 Balance at 1 January - (2,640 ) (1,829 ) Share buy back - - (1,847 ) Utilised for dividends paid in shares - - 412 Utilised for exercise of options and performance share plans - - 624 Sale of treasury shares - 3,708 - Gain on sale of treasury shares - (1,068 ) - Balance at 31 December - - (2,640 ) Other reserves including retained earnings Balance at 1 January 11,096 25,650 18,599 Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders of the parent company (4,399 ) 3,580 9,848 Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company - (19,213 ) (1,540 ) Dividends paid in shares to shareholders of the parent company - - (586 ) Gain on sale of treasury shares - 1,068 - Settlement of share option and awards in cash 44 - - (743 ) Other changes - 11 72 Balance at 31 December 6,697 11,096 25,650 Net gains/(losses) not recognised in the income statement Currency translation account Balance at 1 January 517 597 408 Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the period 12 (218 ) (80 ) 189 Balance at 31 December 299 517 597 Net unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale assets Balance at 1 January (865 ) (543 ) 364 Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the period 12 25 (322 ) (907 ) Balance at 31 December (840 ) (865 ) (543 ) Cash flow hedging reserve Balance at 1 January (866 ) 94 (275 ) Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the period 12 (205 ) (960 ) 369 Balance at 31 December (1,071 ) (866 ) 94 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company at 31 December 18,880 17,077 29,575 Non-controlling interest Balance at 1 January 46 1,134 2,298 Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the period 5 (92 ) (11 ) Repayment to non-controlling interests (15 ) (996 ) (1,153 ) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests at 31 December 36 46 1,134 Total equity at 31 December 18,916 17,123 30,709 Numbers stated against items refer to the notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 102 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 2007 (1) Operating activities Profit/(loss) for the period (4,400 ) 3,595 9,975 Adjustments for Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 982 1,152 1,271 Loan impairment losses 2,803 4,332 2,794 Share of result in equity accounted investments (25 ) (171 ) (278 ) Movements in operating assets and liabilities Movement in operating assets 35 224,174 199,957 (133,448 ) Movement in operating liabilities 35 (178,308 ) (246,314 ) 114,722 Other adjustments Dividends received from equity accounted investments 33 34 81 Net cash flows from operating activities 45,259 (37,415 ) (4,883 ) Investing activities Acquisition of financial investments (85,270 ) (245,561 ) (201,808 ) Sales and redemption of investments 77,354 263,840 197,850 Acquisition of property and equipment (323 ) (436 ) (888 ) Sales of property and equipment 109 94 674 Acquisition of intangibles (excluding goodwill) (167 ) (284 ) (549 ) Disposal of intangibles (excluding goodwill) 7 5 24 Acquisition of subsidiaries and equity accounted investments (13 ) (45 ) (501 ) Disposal of subsidiaries and equity accounted investments 41 23,907 15,736 Net cash flows from investing activities (8,262 ) 41,520 10,538 Financing activities Issuance of subordinated liabilities 2,619 508 1,523 Repayment of subordinated liabilities (1,566 ) (918 ) (1,225 ) Issuance of other long-term funding 9,797 37,952 39,635 Repayment of other long-term funding (19,816 ) (56,323 ) (33,284 ) Sale of treasury shares - 3,708 - Share buy back - - (1,847 ) Utilised for exercise of options and performance share plans - - 624 Increase in share premium 6,600 Other 6 7 (1,723 ) Dividends paid - (19,213 ) (1,540 ) Net cash flows from financing activities (2,360 ) (34,279 ) 2,163 Currency translation differences on cash and cash equivalents (414 ) 3,975 62 Movement in cash and cash equivalents 34,223 (26,199 ) 7,880 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January (13,447 ) 12,752 4,872 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 35 20,776 (13,447 ) 12,752 Numbers stated against items refer to the notes. The notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. (1) The comparative amounts for 2007 have been restated to conform to the 2009 and 2008 presentation of cash flows. 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (unless otherwise stated, all amounts are in millions of euros) 1 Segment reporting Segment information is presented in respect of ABN AMRO’s business. From 1 January 2009, ABN AMRO is comprised of three reportable segments, namely the “RBS acquired”, “Dutch State acquired” and “Central Items” segments. This segmentation reflects the focus of and the governance created by the Managing Board on the separate identification and subsequent legal separation of the Dutch State acquired businesses from the residual RBS acquired businesses and remaining Shared Assets in order to create two separate independent banks. The “RBS acquired” segment represents the businesses acquired by the RBS Group and not sold or transferred to RBS plc. It principally contains international lending, international transaction services with operations in Europe, Asia and the Americas and the equities business. It also includes some retail and commercial businesses in Asia and South America that are to be divested. The “Dutch State acquired” segment serves Dutch commercial clients, Dutch consumer clients, and Dutch and international private clients, and includes the International Diamond and Jewelry business. The “Central Items” segment includes items that are not allocated to but are economically shared by the Consortium Members as well as settlement amounts accruing to Santander arising from the disposal of Banco Real and other sales and settlements of Santander acquired businesses completed in 2008. In addition, prior to April 2008, the majority of the Group Asset and Liability Management portfolios were economically shared. Since the allocation of these portfolios was effected on the basis of prospective agreements between Consortium Members, the results on these portfolios prior to this date are reported in Central Items. Measurement of segment assets, liabilities, income and results is based on ABN AMRO’s accounting policies. Segment assets, liabilities, income and results include items directly attributable to a segment. 104 Operating segment information for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2) RBS acquired Dutch State acquired Central Items Subtotal Discontinued Operations Reconciling items (1) Total Net interest income - external 1,894 2,803 (34 ) 4,663 (15 ) 4,648 Net interest income - other segments (183 ) 191 (8 ) - - - Net fee and commission income - external 1,071 1,150 - 2,221 - 2,221 Net fee and commission income - other segments (47 ) 48 (1 ) - - - Net trading income 1,449 110 3 1,562 - 1,562 Result from financial transactions (2,261 ) 299 (250 ) (2,212 ) 6 (2,206 ) Share of result in equity accounted investments (65 ) 83 7 25 - 25 Other operating income (284 ) 215 77 8 - 8 Income of consolidated private equity holdings - - - - 436 436 Total operating income 1,574 4,899 (206 ) 6,267 427 6,694 Total operating expenses 4,457 3,796 140 8,393 422 8,815 Loan impairment and credit risk provisions 1,621 1,172 - 2,793 - 2,793 Total expenses 6,078 4,968 140 11,186 422 11,608 Operating profit/(loss) before tax (4,504 ) (69 ) (346 ) (4,919 ) 5 (4,914 ) Tax (336 ) 48 (132 ) (420 ) 5 (415 ) Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (4,168 ) (117 ) (214 ) (4,499 ) - (4,499 ) Profit from discontinued operations net of tax - - - - 99 - 99 Profit/(loss) for the year (4,168 ) (117 ) (214 ) (4,499 ) 99 - (4,400 ) Other information at 31 December 2009 Total assets 274,860 201,824 8,776 485,460 - (16,115 ) 469,345 Of which equity accounted investments 73 363 420 856 - - 856 Total liabilities 269,532 197,550 (535 ) 466,547 - (16,118 ) 450,429 Capital expenditure 206 337 5 548 - - 548 Depreciation and amortisation 607 325 37 969 - 13 982 Impairment of available-for-sale securities 3 7 - 10 - - 10 (1) Segments are stated as they are reviewed by management and therefore exclude the effect of the consolidation of Private Equity businesses which is shown as a reconciling item. Inter-segment balances are shown as external balances in the segments and eliminated as a reconciling item. (2) Changes have been made to ABN AMRO’s operating segments in 2009. Comparative data have been restated accordingly. 105 Operating segment information for the year ended 31 December 2008 (2) RBS acquired Dutch State acquired Central Items Subtotal Discontinued Operations Reconciling items(1) Total Net interest income - external 1,401 3,758 669 5,828 (45 ) 5,783 Net interest income - other segments 1,147 (535 ) (612 ) - - - Net fee and commission income - external 1,461 1,223 (55 ) 2,629 - 2,629 Net fee and commission income - other segments (103 ) 99 4 - - - Net trading income (9,115 ) 190 (399 ) (9,324 ) - (9,324 ) Result from financial transactions (1,518 ) 181 (311 ) (1,648 ) (36 ) (1,684 ) Share of result in equity accounted investments 9 31 66 106 - 106 Other operating income 54 242 10 306 - 306 Income of consolidated private equity holdings - - - - 1,726 1,726 Total operating income (6,664 ) 5,189 (628 ) (2,103 ) 1,645 (458 ) Total operating expenses 5,718 3,786 490 9,994 1,635 11,629 Loan impairment and credit risk provisions 2,609 776 2 3,387 - 3,387 Total expenses 8,327 4,562 492 13,381 1,635 15,016 Operating profit/(loss) before tax (14,991 ) 627 (1,120 ) (15,484 ) 10 (15,474 ) Tax (2,442 ) 156 (304 ) (2,590 ) 10 (2,580 ) Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (12,549 ) 471 (816 ) (12,894 ) - (12,894 ) Profit from discontinued operations net of tax - - - - 16,489 - 16,489 Profit/(loss) for the year (12,549 ) 471 (816 ) (12,894 ) 16,489 - 3,595 Other information at 31 December 2008 Total assets 478,195 183,539 9,490 671,224 1,583 (5,990 ) 666,817 Of which equity accounted investments 158 210 428 796 - - 796 Total liabilities 472,244 176,494 6,517 655,255 864 (6,425 ) 649,694 Capital expenditure 192 273 111 576 - - 576 Depreciation and amortisation 481 334 230 1,045 - - 1,045 Impairment of available-for-sale securities 333 - - 333 - - 333 (1) Segments are stated as they are reviewed by management and therefore exclude the effect of the consolidation of Private Equity businesses which is shown as a reconciling item. Inter-segment balances are shown as external balances in the segments and eliminated as a reconciling item. (2) Changes have been made to ABN AMRO’s operating segments in 2009. Comparative data have been restated accordingly. 106 Operating segment information for the year ended 31 December 2007 (2) RBS acquired Dutch State acquired Central Items Subtotal Discontinued Operations Reconciling items(1) Total Net interest income - external 1,714 3,598 (497 ) 4,815 (220 ) 4,595 Net interest income - other segments 451 (158 ) (293 ) - - - Net fee and commission income - external 2,543 1,346 (37 ) 3,852 - 3,852 Net fee and commission income - other segments (436 ) 195 241 - - - Net trading income 1,089 155 (128 ) 1,116 3 1,119 Result from financial transactions 191 37 860 1,088 46 1,134 Share of result in equity accounted investments 48 54 120 222 1 223 Other operating income 139 335 765 1,239 - 1,239 Income of consolidated private equity holdings - - - - 3,836 3,836 Total operating income 5,739 5,562 1,031 12,332 3,666 15,998 Total operating expenses 6,122 3,610 1,419 11,151 3,634 14,785 Loan impairment and credit risk provisions 346 378 (7 ) 717 - 717 Total expenses 6,468 3,988 1,412 11,868 3,634 15,502 Operating profit/(loss) before tax (729 ) 1,574 (381 ) 464 32 496 Tax (298 ) 394 (586 ) (490 ) 32 (458 ) Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (431 ) 1,180 205 954 - 954 Profit from discontinued operations net of tax - - - - 9,021 - 9,021 Profit/(loss) for the year (431 ) 1,180 205 954 9,021 - 9,975 Other information at 31 December 2007 Total assets 686,791 161,335 114,931 963,057 60,458 1,698 1,025,213 Of which equity accounted investments 257 230 360 847 24 - 871 Total liabilities 668,185 157,748 128,791 954,724 39,780 - 994,504 Capital expenditure 274 373 454 1,101 - - 1,101 Depreciation and amortisation 226 287 344 857 - - 857 Impairment of available-for-sale securities - - - - - - - (1) Segments are stated as they are reviewed by management and therefore exclude the effect of the consolidation of Private Equity businesses which is shown as a reconciling item. Inter-segment balances are shown as external balances in the segments and eliminated as a reconciling item. (2) Changes have been made to ABN AMRO’s operating segments in 2009. Comparative data have been restated accordingly. 107 Geographical information The geographical analysis presented below is based on the location of the ABN AMRO entity in which the transactions are recorded. The Netherlands Europe North America Latin America Asia /Pacific Total 2009 Net interest income 2,689 846 238 55 820 4,648 Net commission income 684 1,035 111 12 379 2,221 Other income 895 (1,327 ) 108 33 116 (175 ) Operating income 4,268 554 457 100 1,315 6,694 Total assets 276,171 148,215 8,875 1,229 34,855 469,345 Capital expenditure 442 57 6 1 42 548 2008 Net interest income 3,674 841 256 80 932 5,783 Net commission income 915 947 199 10 558 2,629 Other income (239 ) (9,076 ) (84 ) 44 485 (8,870 ) Operating income 4,350 (7,288 ) 371 134 1,975 (458 ) Total assets 280,960 305,429 19,170 1,817 59,441 666,817 Capital expenditure 418 75 25 1 57 576 2007 Net interest income 2,654 857 134 65 885 4,595 Net commission income 964 1,070 448 80 1,290 3,852 Other income 5,732 922 336 9 552 7,551 Operating income 9,350 2,849 918 154 2,727 15,998 Total assets 309,659 510,540 80,526 46,581 77,907 1,025,213 Capital expenditure 464 180 130 239 88 1,101 108 2 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries Acquisitions 2009 During 2009 there were no material acquisitions. Disposals 2009 Sale of remaining Santander businesses In April 2009 Banco ABN AMRO Paraguay S.A. was sold to Banco Regional for EUR 36 million resulting in a loss on sale of EUR 1 million. Acquisitions 2008 During 2008 there were no acquisitions. Disposals 2008 Sale of Asset Management The sale of the shares in ABN AMRO Asset Management NV to Fortis Bank was completed in April. The sale price was EUR 3,699 million, resulting in a gain on sale of EUR 3,073 million. Sale of Banca Antonveneta The sale of Banca Antonveneta to Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena was completed in May. The sale price was EUR 9,894 million, resulting in a gain on sale of EUR 2,357 million. Sale of businesses to Santander In July 2008 Banco ABN AMRO Real S.A. (‘Banco Real’), Interbanca SpA and other entities acquired by Santander were sold to Santander for EUR 15,431 million resulting in a gain on sale of EUR 10,647 million. Acquisitions 2007 Taitung Business Bank Taiwan In September 2007 ABN AMRO acquired 100% of the shares of Taitung Business Bank Taiwan. The total consideration received amounted to EUR 147 million, resulting in goodwill recognised of EUR 160 million. Prime Bank Ltd (Pakistan) In April 2007 ABN AMRO completed the acquisition resulting in a 96.2% stake in Prime Bank. The total consideration paid amounted to EUR 176 million with goodwill of EUR 139 million recognised on acquisition. Disposals 2007 ABN AMRO North America Holding Company In October 2007 ABN AMRO completed the sale of ABN AMRO North America Holding Company (‘LaSalle Bank’) which principally consisted of the retail and commercial banking activities of LaSalle Bank Corporation to Bank of America. ABN AMRO's North American Asset Management businesses and certain businesses within ABN AMRO's North American Global Markets and Global Clients operations did not form part of the sale. The sale price was USD 21 billion and resulted in a gain of EUR 7,163 million after tax. ABN AMRO Capital Holdings B.V. During the second quarter of 2007, ABN AMRO sold a majority of the shares of AAC Capital Holdings B.V., the management company of a significant portion of the private equity investments held by ABN AMRO, to the executives of the management company. Also as part of the sale, the Bank transferred all power to govern the financial and operating policies of the management company and all investment decisions related to the portion of ABN AMRO’s private equity investments included in the transaction (the Netherlands, Nordic and UK business of ABN AMRO Capital) to a management company outside of ABN AMRO resulting in the loss of control over these investments. The ownership of the underlying investments 109 and therefore the economic interest in the investments was not changed. The loss of control over the management company resulted in the managed investments no longer being consolidated in the financial statements. As of the date of the transaction the investments are recognised and carried at fair value with changes through income. This transaction resulted in a gain of EUR 108 million reported in results from financial transactions. ABN AMRO Mellon Global Securities Services In December 2007, ABN AMRO sold its 50% share in the joint venture ABN AMRO Mellon Global Securities B.V. (ABN AMRO Mellon) to Mellon Bank N.A., Pittsburgh. The sale price amounted to EUR 387 million and resulted in a net gain of EUR 139 million. Private Banking operations in Miami and Montevideo In April 2007, the Private Clients business disposed of its operations in Miami and Montevideo to Banco Itau. The profit recognised on the sale included in other operating income, amounted to EUR 72 million after tax. ABN AMRO Mortgage Group, Inc. In February 2007 ABN AMRO closed the sale of ABN AMRO Mortgage Group, Inc., its US-based residential mortgage broker origination platform and servicing business, which includes ABN AMRO Mortgage Group, InterFirst and Mortgage.com, to Citigroup. Citigroup purchased approximately EUR 7.8 billion of net assets. The profit of the sale amounted to EUR 93 million after tax. Interbank (NL) and DMC Groep In November 2007 ABN AMRO closed the sale of Interbank N.V. and DMC Groep N.V. to SOFINCO for an amount of EUR 98 million. The gain on the sale amounted to EUR 56 million after tax. 110 3 Net interest income 2009 2008 2007 Interest income from: Cash and balances at central banks 110 311 282 Financial investments available-for-sale 2,426 3,929 3,835 Financial investments held-to-maturity - 105 121 Loans and receivables-banks 418 1,216 1,422 Loans and receivables-customers 10,341 16,519 17,074 Subtotal 13,295 22,080 22,734 Interest expense from: Due to banks 1,366 4,270 4,656 Due to customers 4,591 7,508 9,114 Issued debt securities 2,445 5,156 6,521 Subordinated liabilities 500 703 759 Funding of the trading business (255 ) (1,340 ) (2,911 ) Subtotal 8,647 16,297 18,139 Total 4,648 5,783 4,595 The interest income recognised on impaired financial assets is EUR 104 million (2008: EUR 30 million). 4 Net fee and commission income 2009 2008 2007 Fee and commission income Securities brokerage fees 795 876 1,399 Payment and transaction services fees 767 836 764 Asset management and trust fees 276 359 495 Fees generated on financing arrangements 130 130 278 Advisory fees 216 321 578 Other fees and commissions 558 546 667 Subtotal 2,742 3,068 4,181 Fee and commission expense Securities brokerage expense 65 103 83 Other fee and commission expense 456 336 246 Subtotal 521 439 329 Total 2,221 2,629 3,852 5 Net trading income 2009 2008 2007 Interest instruments and credit trading 75 (9,276 ) (1,531 ) Foreign exchange trading 884 915 1,152 Equity and commodity trading 651 (1,017 ) 1,438 Other (48 ) 54 60 Total 1,562 (9,324 ) 1,119 111 6 Results from financial transactions 2009 2008 2007 Net result on the sale of available-for-sale debt securities 48 (1,453 ) 157 Net result on the sale of loans and advances (625 ) (428 ) (23 ) Impairment of available-for-sale debt securities (10 ) (333 ) - Net result on available-for-sale equity investments 16 (67 ) 35 Net results on fair value changes in own credit risk and repurchase of own debt 233 490 251 Dividends on available-for-sale equity investments 15 54 9 Net result on other equity investments (108 ) (1,185 ) 669 Net result on risk mitigants (1,680 ) 1,545 116 Other (95 ) (307 ) (80 ) Total (2,206 ) (1,684 ) 1,134 The net result on risk mitigants is related to swaps that are entered into to economically and on a portfolio basis hedge credit risks on loans and advances. It also includes the realised result on the settlement of purchased guarantees. 7 Other operating income 2009 2008 2007 Insurance activities 11 45 36 Leasing activities 69 78 82 Disposal of operating activities and equity accounted investments (198 ) (6 ) 894 Other 126 189 227 Total 8 306 1,239 In 2009 results from disposal of operating activities included losses on sales in progress in relation to the RBS acquired businesses in Asia and South America. The results from the disposal of operating activities and equity accounted investments for 2007 includes a gain on the sale of the Capitalia shares, of EUR 624 million, which were settled in Unicredit shares and the gain on sale of ABN AMRO Mellon of EUR 139 million. Income from insurance activities can be analysed as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Premium income 741 618 799 Investment income 271 (74 ) 161 Settlement and claims (1,001 ) (499 ) (924 ) Total 11 45 36 8 Personnel expenses 2009 2008 2007 Salaries (including bonuses and allowances) 2,877 3,486 4,676 Social security expenses 289 353 447 Pension and post-retirement healthcare costs 393 294 330 Share-based payment expenses - (16 ) 296 Temporary staff costs 211 248 260 Termination and restructuring related costs 177 469 65 Other employee costs 172 402 289 Total 4,119 5,236 6,363 Average number of employees (fte) excluding discontinued operations: Banking activities Netherlands 21,902 24,044 26,041 Banking activities foreign countries 31,418 33,934 31,949 Consolidated private equity holdings 2,590 11,769 19,621 Total 55,910 69,747 77,611 112 9 General and administrative expenses 2009 2008 2007 Professional fees 731 1,025 1,113 Information, communication and technology expenses 1,234 1,071 1,240 Property costs 457 507 491 Expenses of consolidated private equity holdings 73 136 332 Other general and administrative expenses 991 1,331 1,645 Total 3,486 4,070 4,821 Following is a summary of the fees to our independent auditors for the years ended 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Audit fees 24.0 30.0 45.2 Audit-related fees 1.6 1.2 13.2 Tax fees 0.8 0.6 2.5 All other fees 3.0 0.7 0.6 Total fees 29.4 32.5 61.5 ABN AMRO Holding N.V. changed auditors in 2008. The audit fee for 2007 included costs relating to the audit of activities which were discontinued in 2008. Deloitte Accountants B.V. provided audit services to the amount of EUR 12.2 million in 2009. The remaining amounts relate to services provided by other Deloitte Member Firms. Audit related fees consist mainly of accounting consultation and audits in connection with acquisitions and disposals of businesses, review of internal controls and advice on accounting control policies and procedures, attestation services not required by statute or regulation and consultation concerning financial accounting and reporting standards. Tax fees consist of tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning services and assistance and advice related to tax audits and appeals. Other fees are related to risk management and corporate finance advisory services, and other services. In line with the pre-approval policy, the Audit Committee has pre-approved all audit and non-audit fees. 10 Depreciation and amortisation 2009 2008 2007 Property depreciation 106 111 117 Equipment depreciation 224 274 339 Software amortisation 222 307 328 Amortisation of other intangible assets (note 21) 8 11 23 Impairment losses on goodwill 240 163 11 Impairment losses on property and equipment (note 20) 26 22 35 Impairment losses on software (note 21) 156 157 4 Total 982 1,045 857 Impairment losses on goodwill includes EUR 43 million (2008: EUR 72 million) impairment losses on Private Equity goodwill (of which EUR 30 million relates to businesses held for sale) and EUR 196 million (2008: EUR 91 million) impairment losses on other consolidated companies all relating to businesses held for sale (see note 21). 113 11 Tax Recognised in the income statement 2009 2008 2007 Current tax expense Current year 112 684 1,306 Under/(over) provided in prior years 4 28 97 Subtotal 116 712 1,403 Deferred tax (benefit)/expense Origination and reversal of timing differences (533 ) (3,024 ) (930 ) Reduction in tax rate 2 46 55 Subtotal (531 ) (2,978 ) (875 ) Total (415 ) (2,266 ) 528 Continuing operations (415 ) (2,580 ) (458 ) Discontinued operations - 314 930 Taxation on disposal - - 56 Total (415 ) (2,266 ) 528 Reconciliation of the total tax charge Total tax charge continuing operations The effective tax rate on ABN AMRO’s result before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory tax rate of the Netherlands of 25.5% (2008: 25.5%, 2007: 25.5%). This difference can be explained as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Dutch tax rate 25.5 % 25.5 % 25.5 % Current tax charge/(credit) at statutory rate on ordinary activities (1,253 ) (3,946 ) 126 Foreign profit at other rates (42 ) 204 (19 ) Total tax exempt income effect 15 (43 ) (299 ) Tax related to adjustments to prior years’ tax calculations 4 28 97 Effect of deferred tax assets not recognised 785 1,403 47 Effect of changes in tax legislation and tax rates 6 55 81 Amount of benefit from a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference of a prior period used to reduce current tax expense (7 ) (32 ) (65 ) Amount of benefit from a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference of a prior period used to reduce deferred tax expense (57 ) (1 ) (93 ) Other differences 134 (248 ) (333 ) Total (415 ) (2,580 ) (458 ) The effective tax rate for the year was 8.4% (2008: 16.7%, 2007: 92.7%) The effect of deferred tax assets not recognised mainly relates to unrecognised tax losses available for carry-forward (refer to note 28). 114 12 Other comprehensive income 2009 2008 2007 Other comprehensive income/(loss): Currency translation account (Losses) arising during the period (194 ) 907 (276 ) Less: Reclassification adjustments for (gains)/losses included in profit or loss (102 ) (1,151 ) 259 Subtotal (296 ) (244 ) (17 ) Available-for-sale financial assets (Losses) arising during the period 75 (2,282 ) (523 ) Less: Reclassification adjustments for (gains)/losses included in profit or loss (55 ) 1,853 (686 ) Subtotal 20 (429 ) (1,209 ) Cash flow hedging reserve (Losses)/gains arising during the period (253 ) (1,207 ) 420 Less: Reclassification adjustments for (gains)/losses included in profit or loss (1 ) (11 ) 72 Subtotal (254 ) (1,218 ) 492 Other comprehensive loss (530 ) (1,891 ) (734 ) Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive expense 138 422 247 Other comprehensive loss for the period, net of tax (392 ) (1,469 ) (487 ) Available-for-sale financial assets includes other comprehensive income of EUR 3 million (net of tax) from available-for-sale financial assets which have been classified as held for sale (2008: nil, 2007: (25) million). Tax effects of each component of other comprehensive income 2009 2008 2007 Before tax amount Tax Net of tax amount Before tax amount Tax Net of tax amount Before tax amount Tax Net of tax amount Currency translation account (296 ) 84 (212 ) (244 ) 57 (187 ) (17 ) 68 51 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 5 25 (429 ) 107 (322 ) (1,209 ) 302 (907 ) Cash flow hedging reserve (254 ) 49 (205 ) (1,218 ) 258 (960 ) 492 (123 ) 369 Other comprehensive loss (530 ) 138 (392 ) (1,891 ) 422 (1,469 ) (734 ) 247 (487 ) The currency translation account includes other comprehensive income / (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests of EUR 6 million (2008: EUR (107) million; 2007: EUR (138) million). 115 13 Cash and balances at central banks 2009 2008 Cash on hand 724 670 Balances at central bank 27,658 5,184 Total 28,382 5,854 The deposit balances with the central banks in which the bank has a presence includes EUR 4,791 million (2008: EUR 3,414 million) of mandatory reserve deposits. These are therefore not available for use in ABN AMRO's day-to-day operations. 14 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading 2009 2008 Financial assets held for trading Dutch State 71 203 US Treasury and US Government 19 29 Other OECD governments 2,337 2,392 Non-OECD governments 569 1,598 Mortgage and other asset backed securities 3,079 9,170 Financial institutions 1,788 3,966 Non financial institutions 1,920 2,382 Other securities 1,695 1,587 Subtotal interest earning financial assets 11,478 21,327 Equity instruments 12,346 12,430 Derivative financial instruments 54,234 178,896 Total assets held for trading 78,058 212,653 Financial liabilities held for trading Short positions in financial assets 4,536 5,413 Derivative financial instruments 58,151 186,674 Total liabilities held for trading 62,687 192,087 ABN AMRO has executed master netting agreements with the majority of its derivative counterparties resulting in a significant reduction in its net exposure to derivative assets. Mortgage and other asset backed securities comprise mainly of prime RMBS (EUR 3.1 billion). The decrease in derivative balances and in mortgage and other asset backed securities is largely explained by transfers of various business activities to the RBS Group. For further information refer to note 46. 116 Trading portfolio derivative financial instruments 2009 2008 Notional amounts Fair values Notional amounts Fair values Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives OTC Swaps 934,908 17,769 19,804 2,643,789 70,922 68,508 Forwards 4,195 - - 643,275 930 1,208 Options (purchased) 40,219 9,071 1 165,738 12,890 - Options (sold) 35,229 - 8,709 146,059 - 18,365 Exchange Futures 3,257 2 - 9,292 321 199 Options (purchased) - - - - - - Options (sold) - - - - - - Subtotal 1,017,808 26,842 28,514 3,608,153 85,063 88,280 Currency derivatives OTC Swaps 63,446 2,389 2,535 439,902 20,122 17,986 Forwards 385,224 11,853 10,230 442,946 14,567 17,123 Options (purchased) 14,277 995 - 61,709 8,360 - Options (sold) 14,257 - 1,015 72,733 - 8,951 Exchange Futures - - - - - - Options (sold/purchased) 68 - - 317 55 48 Subtotal 477,272 15,237 13,780 1,017,607 43,104 44,108 Credit derivatives OTC Swaps 311,501 4,937 6,901 509,322 41,246 42,585 Other OTC Equity, commodity and other 11,901 1,954 872 16,172 2,889 2,094 Equity options (purchased) 20,342 4,583 - 21,359 5,702 - Equity options (sold) 19,770 - 6,383 21,237 - 7,774 Exchange Equity, commodity and other 17,022 219 965 14,509 537 1,379 Equity options (purchased) 37,173 462 - 25,638 355 - Equity options (sold) 40,176 - 736 26,538 - 454 Subtotal 146,384 7,218 8,956 125,453 9,483 11,701 Total 1,952,965 54,234 58,151 5,260,535 178,896 186,674 117 15 Financial investments 2009 2008 Interest-earning securities: available-for-sale Dutch State 6,800 3,866 US Treasury and US Government 4,325 5,204 Other OECD governments 31,416 23,552 Non-OECD governments 2,365 4,152 Mortgage and other asset backed securities 21,258 22,572 Financial institutions 5,192 3,942 Non financial institutions 1,726 2,058 Other interest-earning securities 444 218 Subtotal 73,526 65,564 Equity instruments Available-for-sale 805 837 Designated at fair value through income 566 660 Subtotal 1,371 1,497 Total 74,897 67,061 The mortgage and other asset backed securities of EUR 21.3 billion (2008: EUR 22.6 billion) consists mainly of EUR 10.9 billion (2008: EUR 10.9 billion) European mortgage covered bonds and EUR 7.7 billion (2008: EUR 8.0 billion) RMBS of mortgages covered by the Dutch mortgage guarantee scheme. Furthermore, EUR 2.4 billion (2008: EUR 3.3 billion) European covered bonds, backed by assets other than mortgages, are included in this position. At 31 December 2009 these were primarily AAA rated. The majority of the positions are held as part of the asset and liability management activities of the bank. 16 Loans and receivables – banks This item is comprised of amounts due from or deposited with banking institutions. 2009 2008 Current accounts 3,817 4,254 Time deposits placed 12,488 11,012 Professional securities transactions 8,615 39,453 Loans 14,814 20,893 Subtotal 39,734 75,612 Allowances for impairment (see note 18) (75 ) (46 ) Total 39,659 75,566 17 Loans and receivables – customers This item is comprised of amounts receivable from non-bank customers. 2009 2008 Public sector 2,722 8,786 Commercial 103,418 138,484 Consumer 107,341 109,298 Professional securities transactions 10,136 13,193 Multi-seller conduits 265 5,264 Subtotal 223,882 275,025 Allowances for impairment (see note 18) (5,636 ) (4,518 ) Total 218,246 270,507 During 2009 ABN AMRO’s remaining multi-seller conduits and the related issuance and sponsorship role were transferred to the RBS Group. 118 18 Loan impairment charges and allowances Loan provisioning-commercial loans ABN AMRO reviews the status of credit facilities issued to commercial clients at least every 12 months. The frequency of review increases to semi-annual or monthly when the creditworthiness of the obligor is below certain internal (rating) thresholds. Additionally, credit officers continually monitor the quality of the credit, the client and the adherence to contractual conditions. Should the quality of a loan or the borrower’s financial position deteriorate to the extent that doubts arise over the borrower’s ability to meet its contractual obligations, management of the relationship is transferred to a specialised department responsible to restructure and/or recover the loans and other financial obligations the client may have to ABN AMRO. After making an assessment, this specialised department determines the amount, if any, of the specific allowances that should be made, taking into account the value of collateral. Specific allowances are partly or fully released when the debt is repaid or expected future cash flows improve due to positive changes in economic or financial circumstances. Loan provisioning-consumer loan products The bank offers a wide range of consumer loan products and programs such as personal loans, home mortgages, credit cards and home improvement loans. Provisioning for these products is carried out on a portfolio basis with a provision for each product being determined by the portfolio’s size and loss experience. Our consumer loan portfolio policy states that, in general, when interest or principal on a consumer loan is 90 days past due (180 days past due, if mortgages), such loans are classified as non-performing and as a result the loans are considered impaired. Allowances against a given portfolio may be released where there is improvement in the quality of the portfolio. For consumer loans, the write-off rules are determined on days past due and vary by type of product and legal jurisdiction. Allowance for incurred but not identified losses In addition to impairment allowances calculated on a specific or portfolio basis, ABN AMRO also maintains an allowance to cover undetected impairments existing within loans due to delays in obtaining information that would indicate that losses exist at the balance sheet date. This process includes an estimate by management to reflect current market conditions. This estimate takes into account loan impairment levels forecasted by business owners, expected loss trends and market views on the expected future direction of the economies in which ABN AMRO operates. Allowances Banks Commercial Consumer Total 2009 Balance at 1 January 46 3,654 863 4,563 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations - (48 ) (12 ) (60 ) Subtotal 46 3,606 851 4,503 New impairment allowances 30 2,475 671 3,176 Reversal of impairment allowances no longer required - (332 ) (41 ) (373 ) Recoveries of amounts previously written off - (4 ) (6 ) (10 ) Total loan impairment and other credit risk provisions 30 2,139 624 2,793 Interest income from unwinding of discounting - (43 ) - (43 ) Currency translation differences (1 ) 35 20 54 Amounts written off (net) - (799 ) (466 ) (1,265 ) Effect of (de)- consolidating entities - - (83 ) (83 ) Reclassfied to held for sale - (18 ) (255 ) (273 ) Disposals of businesses - (73 ) - (73 ) Reserve for unearned interest accrued on impaired loans - 95 3 98 Balance at 31 December 75 4,942 694 5,711 119 The new impairment allowances recorded in 2009 of EUR 2,475 million include EUR 548 million in relation to the exposure to LyondellBasell Industries. Banks Commercial Consumer Total 2008 Balance at 1 January 2 1,774 1,227 3,003 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations - (351 ) (711 ) (1,062 ) Subtotal 2 1,423 516 1,941 New impairment allowances 46 2,951 584 3,581 Reversal of impairment allowances no longer required - (141 ) (10 ) (151 ) Recoveries of amounts previously written off - (32 ) (11 ) (43 ) Total loan impairment and other credit risk provisions 46 2,778 563 3,387 Interest income from unwinding of discounting - (24 ) - (24 ) Currency translation differences - 4 9 13 Amounts written off (net) (2 ) (605 ) (207 ) (814 ) Effect of (de)consolidating entities - 12 (19 ) (7 ) Reserve for unearned interest accrued on impaired loans - 66 1 67 Balance at 31 December 46 3,654 863 4,563 The impairment allowances recorded in 2008 of EUR 2,951 million include EUR 1,154 million in relation to the exposure to LyondellBasell Industries. The reconciliation of the allowance for impairment losses for loans and receivables: Impairment Banks Commercial Consumer Total Mortgages Personal loans Credit cards Other consumer 2009 Individual impairment 75 4,243 3 25 21 73 4,440 Collective impairment - 699 145 1 - 426 1,271 Balance at 31 December 75 4,942 148 26 21 499 5,711 Carrying amount of loans, determined to be impaired, before deducting any assessed impairment allowance 118 6,834 473 192 25 447 8,089 Banks Commercial Consumer Total Mortgages Personal loans Credit cards Other consumer 2008 Individual impairment 46 3,026 3 22 27 39 3,163 Collective impairment - 628 105 132 27 508 1,400 Balance at 31 December 46 3,654 108 154 54 547 4,563 Carrying amount of loans, determined to be impaired, before deducting any assessed impairment allowance 48 4,772 468 321 53 359 6,021 Collective impairment of personal loans and credit cards has significantly decreased due to the reclassification of the related held for sale portfolios of consumer businesses in Asia. 120 19 Equity accounted investments 2009 2008 Banking institutions 719 658 Other investments 137 138 Total 856 796 The balance in 2009 and 2008 changed as follows: 2009 2008 Balance at 1 January 796 871 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations - (51 ) Subtotal 796 820 Movements: Purchases 12 3 Sales/reclassifications (44 ) (19 ) Share of results in equity accounted investments 25 106 Dividends received from equity accounted investments (33 ) (33 ) Recognised directly in equity 107 (82 ) Currency translation differences (7 ) 1 Balance at 31 December 856 796 The principal equity accounted investments of ABN AMRO on an aggregated basis (not adjusted for ABN AMRO’s proportionate interest) have the following balance sheet and income statement totals: 2009 2008 Total assets 18,423 19,035 Total liabilities 16,073 15,761 Operating income 1,938 1,039 Operating results after tax 129 338 Included in equity accounted investments is ABN AMRO’s 40% holding in Saudi Hollandi Bank which is an entity with quoted shares. The fair value of the holding based on the share price as at the year end amounts to EUR 734 million (2008: EUR 808 million). The majority of ABN AMRO’s equity accounted investments are regulated entities and therefore their ability to transfer funds to ABN AMRO is subject to regulatory approvals. 121 20 Property and equipment The book value of property and equipment in 2009 and 2008 changed as follows: Property Used in operations Other Equipment Total Balance at 1 January 2009 1,377 17 641 2,035 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations 16 73 41 130 1,393 90 682 2,165 Movements: Divestment of businesses (31 ) - (26 ) (57 ) Additions 73 3 250 326 Disposals (18 ) (5 ) (91 ) (114 ) Impairment losses (4 ) - (22 ) (26 ) Depreciation (105 ) (1 ) (224 ) (330 ) Currency translation differences - - 1 1 Other 2 (5 ) (1 ) (4 ) Balance at 31 December 2009 1,310 82 569 1,961 Representing: Cost 2,447 88 2,348 4,883 Cumulative impairment (32 ) - (10 ) (42 ) Cumulative depreciation (1,105 ) (6 ) (1,769 ) (2,880 ) Property Used in operations Other Equipment Total Balance at 1 January 2008 1,802 68 877 2,747 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations (304 ) (40 ) (168 ) (512 ) 1,498 28 709 2,235 Movements: Acquired in business combinations 4 - 36 40 Divestment of businesses (6 ) - - (6 ) Additions 74 6 252 332 Disposals (13 ) (22 ) (74 ) (109 ) Impairment losses (21 ) - (1 ) (22 ) Depreciation (109 ) (2 ) (274 ) (385 ) Currency translation differences (16 ) - (16 ) (32 ) Other (34 ) 7 9 (18 ) Balance at 31 December 2008 1,377 17 641 2,035 Representing: Cost 2,457 28 2,146 4,631 Cumulative impairment (31 ) - (4 ) (35 ) Cumulative depreciation (1,049 ) (11 ) (1,501 ) (2,561 ) As lessor ABN AMRO leases out various assets, included in ‘Other’, under operating leases. Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are as follows: 2009 2008 Less than one year 21 23 Between one and five years 187 181 More than five years 80 87 Total 288 291 During the year ended 31 December 2009, EUR 66 million (2008: EUR 77 million) was recognised as rental income in the income statement and EUR 60 million (2008: EUR 61 million) in respect of directly related expenses. 122 21 Goodwill and other intangible assets 2009 2008 Goodwill 238 301 Software 375 583 Other intangibles 32 40 Total 645 924 The book value of goodwill and other intangibles changed as follows: Goodwill Private Equity Goodwill Software Other intangibles Total Balance at 1 January 2009 301 - 583 40 924 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations - 174 - 24 198 301 174 583 64 1,122 Movements: Divestment of businesses - - (3 ) (13 ) (16 ) Additions 1 - 167 - 168 Disposals - - (1 ) (6 ) (7 ) Impairment losses (196 ) (43 ) (156 ) (1 ) (396 ) Amortisation - - (222 ) (8 ) (230 ) Currency translation differences 1 - 7 (4 ) 4 Balance at 31 December 2009 107 131 375 32 645 Representing: Cost 277 234 2,204 44 2,759 Cumulative impairment (170 ) (103 ) (319 ) - (592 ) Cumulative amortisation - - (1,510 ) (12 ) (1,522 ) Goodwill Private Equity Goodwill Software Other intangibles Total Balance at 1 January 2008 474 - 904 46 1,424 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations (69 ) - (79 ) - (148 ) 405 - 825 46 1,276 Movements: Business combinations 6 - - 5 11 Divestment of businesses - - (11 ) - (11 ) Additions 1 - 250 5 256 Disposals - - (3 ) (2 ) (5 ) Impairment losses (91 ) - (157 ) - (248 ) Amortisation - - (307 ) (11 ) (318 ) Currency translation differences (20 ) - (25 ) (3 ) (48 ) Other - - 11 - 11 Balance at 31 December 2008 301 - 583 40 924 Representing: Cost 392 - 2,125 48 2,565 Cumulative impairment (91 ) - (200 ) - (291 ) Cumulative amortisation - - (1,342 ) (8 ) (1,350 ) 123 Impairment testing Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to individual cash generating units. At 31 December 2009 goodwill is allocated across multiple cash generating units and various Private Equity investments whose recoverable amounts are assessed independently of one another. Cash generating units and Private Equity investments with significant goodwill balances were as follows: Segment Entity Basis of recoverable amount Discount rate Impairment loss Goodwill 2009 2008 Dutch State acquired Private Equity investments portfolios Value in use 15 % 13 87 - Dutch State acquired Delbrueck Bethmann Maffei AG Fair value less costs to sell n/a - 63 63 Dutch State acquired ABN AMRO Belgian Branch Fair value less costs to sell n/a - 20 20 RBS acquired Prime Bank Fair value less costs to sell n/a 34 - 34 RBS acquired Taitung Business Bank Taiwan Fair value less costs to sell n/a 162 - 162 For Private Equity investments, the recoverable amount is determined based on a value in use basis, calculated by using a discounted cash flow model. Key assumptions impacting the recoverable amount based on the value in use are the discount rate and exit value. The values assigned to each key assumption reflect past experience that was modified based on management’s expectation for the future and are consistent with external sources of information. The recognition of the impairment losses was mainly driven by the economic recession affecting some Private Equity investments. If the discount rate increases to 20%, the goodwill of more Private Equity entities will be impaired. Fair value less costs to sell is based upon market conform multiples for different classes of assets under current management at Delbrueck Bethmann Maffei AG and AA Belgian Branch. For Delbrueck Bethmann Maffei AG, the recoverable amount of this cash generating unit exceeds its carrying value by EUR 9 million. Securities are the largest class of assets under management at the cash generating unit and the respective expected multiple for these assets would need to fall by 0.2 percentage point to cause its recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value. For ABN AMRO Belgian Branch the recoverable amount exceeds its carrying value by EUR 33 million. The securities would need to fall by 1.0 percentage point to cause its recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value. Sales agreements entered into in 2009 between ABN AMRO and ANZ for the disposal of Taitung Business Bank Taiwan and ABN AMRO and MCB for the disposal of Prime Pakistan resulted in a full impairment of goodwill balances related to those cash generating units. Impairment of software was caused mainly by the migration of various platforms to the RBS environment due to restructuring activities, as well as changes in the planned software roll-out schedule. 22 Other assets 2009 2008 Non-trading derivative assets (see note 37) 2,312 6,222 Unit-linked investments held for policy holder accounts (see note 37) 3,714 3,898 Pension assets (see note 27) 214 71 Sundry assets and other receivables 3,619 7,536 Total 9,859 17,727 Unit-linked investments held for policy holders are designated at fair value through the profit and loss. 124 23 Due to banks This item is comprised of amounts due to banking institutions, including central banks and multilateral development banks. 2009 2008 Professional securities transactions 5,760 26,650 Current accounts 13,373 24,909 Time deposits 26,533 42,423 Other 479 638 Total 46,145 94,620 24 Due to customers This item is comprised of amounts due to non-banking customers. 2009 2008 Consumer current accounts 19,710 17,706 Commercial current accounts 65,131 60,531 Consumer savings accounts 65,243 64,429 Commercial deposit accounts 40,615 58,248 Professional securities transactions 4,040 6,053 Other 1,909 2,037 Total 196,648 209,004 125 25 Issued debt securities 2009 2008 Effective rate % Effective rate % Bonds and notes issued 2.5 73,232 5.1 75,198 Certificates of deposit and commercial paper 1.4 21,179 3.7 30,020 Cash notes, savings certificates and bank certificates 4.5 1,249 4.6 1,222 Subtotal 95,660 106,440 Commercial paper issued by multi-seller conduits - - 4.3 4,856 Total 95,660 111,296 Bonds and notes are issued in the capital markets with a focus on the euro market and are denominated mostly in euros and US dollars. Issued debt securities in (currency): 2009 2008 EUR 64,108 64,857 USD 19,242 35,955 Other 12,310 10,484 Total 95,660 111,296 The balance above includes various structured liabilities that have been designated at fair value through income of EUR 40,535 million (2008: EUR 36,856 million). Financial liabilities designated at fair value through income The carrying amount at 31 December 2009 of issued debt securities designated at fair value was EUR 145 million lower than the contractual amount at maturity (2008: EUR 502 million lower). The following table presents the change in fair value attributable to changes in own credit risk of issued debt securities designated at fair value through profit and loss (decrease/(increase)): Own credit component: 2009 2008 During the year 175 352 Foreign currency translation difference 47 102 Cumulative 937 715 126 26 Provisions 2009 2008 Insurance fund liabilities 3,001 2,461 Provisions for contributions to post-retirement healthcare 5 10 Provision for pension commitments (see note 27) 154 167 Other staff provision 297 374 Restructuring provision 112 186 Other provisions 1,221 946 Total 4,790 4,144 The other staff provisions relate in particular to occupational disability and other benefits, except early retirement benefits payable to non-active employees which are included in Provision for pension commitments. Other provisions include provision for claims and litigation. Insurance fund liabilities include the actuarial reserves, the premium and claims reserves of ABN AMRO’s insurance companies. Insurance fund liabilities Movements in insurance fund liabilities are as follows: 2009 2008 Balance at 1 January 2,461 3,652 Premium carried from income statement 452 372 Claims paid (204) (295) Interest 86 79 Acquisitions/disposals 5 (1,091) Changes in estimates and other movements 171 (239) Currency translation differences 30 (17) Balance at 31 December 3,001 2,461 The assumptions that have the greatest effect in calculating actuarial reserves are future mortality, morbidity, persistency and levels of expenses. Mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect ABN AMRO’s own experience. Other key metrics include interest (2009: 3.47%, 2008: 3.77%), unit growth (2009: 14.34%, 2008: 3.70%) and expense inflation (2009: 3.15%, 2008: 2.00%). Changes in assumptions during the year were not significant to the profit recognised. The amount and timing of claims payment is typically resolved within one year. There are no options and guarantees relating to life insurance contracts that could in aggregate have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of the future cash flows. ABN AMRO is exposed to insurance risk, either directly through its businesses or through using insurance to reduce other risk exposures. Insurance risk is the risk of fluctuations in the timing, frequency or severity of insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting. ABN AMRO uses base tables of standard mortality appropriate to the type of contract being written and the territory in which the insured person resides. Had changes in the relevant risk variable that were reasonably possible at the balance sheet date occurred, there would have been no material impact on ABN AMRO’s profit or loss and equity. 127 Movements in provisions are as follows: Other staff provisions Restructuring Other Provisions Balance at 1 January 2009 374 186 946 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations - - (42 ) 374 186 904 Movements: Additions 56 116 666 Utilised (51 ) (102 ) (180 ) Acquisitions/disposals (25 ) (85 ) (157 ) Currency translation differences - 2 6 Released (45 ) (18 ) (87 ) Other (12 ) 13 69 Balance at 31 December 2009 297 112 1,221 Balance at 1 January 2008 109 124 2,264 Reclassification related to businesses held for sale/discontinued operations 6 - (1,547 ) 115 124 717 Movements: Additions 458 179 381 Utilised (131 ) (82 ) (153 ) Acquisitions/disposals 5 (4 ) (21 ) Currency translation differences 1 (2 ) (4 ) Released (112 ) (29 ) (143 ) Other 38 - 169 Balance at 31 December 2008 374 186 946 Whilst the sale of the EC Remedy business is highly probable of occurring as at balance sheet date 31 December 2009, the business cannot be sold in its current form. A number of the conditions of the Share Purchase Agreement (‘SPA’) are not usual and customary for the sale of such assets and were not met at 31 December 2009. Therefore, the EC Remedy business is not presented as held for sale under IFRS 5 as at 31 December 2009. The expected loss on the sale of EC Remedy business will be recognised by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. immediately after legal separation, when all conditions precedent under the contract are met. The potential capital shortfall on the recognition of the loss on the sale of the EC Remedy business in ABN AMRO Bank N.V. has been addressed through the issuance of a Mandatory Convertible Security (issued on 23 December 2009) that can convert into share capital only at legal separation. As a result, it is not within management’s control to effect the sale of the EC Remedy business before the legal separation. As at 31 December 2009 a provision has been recorded for the unavoidable costs of the contract, a penalty of EUR 35 million, if the sale would not be closed and the contract would be terminated. 128 27 Pension and other post-retirement employee benefits ABN AMRO sponsors a number of pension schemes. These schemes include both defined contribution and defined benefit plans. Most of ABN AMRO’s defined benefit plans provide pensions that are based on average or final salary with annual price evaluation of vested rights. In general, employees do not make contributions for basic pensions but may make voluntary contributions to secure additional benefits. The majority of the beneficiaries of the defined benefit plans are located in The Netherlands, the United Kingdom, India and Switzerland. Plans in all countries comply with applicable local regulations concerning investments and funding levels. Following the disposal of LaSalle in 2007 and Banco Real in 2008 ABN AMRO no longer has material post-retirement benefit obligations other than pensions. Amounts recognised in the profit and loss Pension costs and contributions for post-retirement healthcare are included in personnel expenses and are shown in the following table: 2009 2008 Current service cost 209 226 Interest cost 540 540 Expected return on plan assets (447 ) (580 ) Net amortisation of net actuarial (gains)/losses 4 (15 ) Net amortisation of past service cost 13 7 (Gain)/loss on curtailment or settlements (15 ) 6 Defined benefit plans 304 184 Defined contribution plans 70 94 Healthcare contributions 3 2 Total costs 377 280 Reconciliation to balance sheet Contributions were made to 31 (2008: 33) defined benefit plans that provide pension benefits for employees upon retirement. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2009 2008 Present value of funded obligations 10,486 10,002 Present value of unfunded obligations 80 93 Fair value of plan assets (10,211 ) (9,489 ) Present value of net obligations/(assets) 355 606 Unrecognised past service cost (18 ) (1 ) Unrecognised actuarial (losses)/gains (397 ) (508 ) Net liability/(asset) for defined benefit obligations (60 ) 97 Provision for pension commitments 154 167 Pension assets (214 ) (70 ) Net recognised liability/(asset) for defined benefit obligations (60 ) 97 Explanation of the assets and liabilities Movements in defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2009 2008 Balance at 1 January 10,095 9,742 Current service cost 209 226 Interest cost 540 540 Employee contributions 5 3 Actuarial (gains)/losses 180 74 Benefits paid (361 ) (351 ) Acquisitions/(disposals) (13 ) (2 ) Recognised settlement and curtailment (22 ) (1 ) Currency translation differences 44 (179 ) Other (111 ) 43 Balance at 31 December 10,566 10,095 129 Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2009 2008 Balance at 1 January 9,489 9,969 Expected return on plan assets 447 579 Actuarial gains/(losses) 203 (909 ) Employers contribution 439 370 Employee contributions/refunds 4 3 Benefits paid (348 ) (333 ) Acquisitions/(disposals) 2 (2 ) Recognised settlement and curtailment (11 ) - Currency translation differences 47 (191 ) Other (61 ) 3 Balance at 31 December 10,211 9,489 Principal actuarial assumptions The weighted averages of the main actuarial assumptions used to determine the value of the provisions for pension obligations and the pension costs as at 31 December were as follows: 2009 2008 Discount rate 5.2 % 5.4 % Inflation rate 2.0 % 2.0 % Expected increment in salaries 2.4 % 2.6 % Expected return on investments 4.8 % 4.8 % The expected return on plan assets is weighted on the basis of the fair value of these investments. All other assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit plan obligations. The discount rate is determined based on the average annual yield for AA rated corporate bonds with a term of 10 years or more. For the pension plans, the expected return on the major classes of plan assets are as follows: 2009 2008 Plan asset category: Value in millions of euro % of total fair value of scheme assets Expected rate of return % Value in millions of euro % of total fair value of scheme assets Expected rate of return % Equity securities 2,914 28.5 % 7.1 % 1,210 12.8 % 7.6 % Issued debt securities 6,604 64.7 % 3.9 % 7.609 80.2 % 4.3 % Real estate 355 3.5 % 5.9 % 350 3.6 % 6.3 % Other 338 3.3 % 1.5 % 320 3.4 % 4.9 % Total 10,211 9,489 For both 2009 and 2008, the schemes have not invested in ordinary shares or debt issued by ABN AMRO, or invested in property occupied or other assets used by ABN AMRO. Forecast of pension benefits payments 2010 373 2011 359 2012 350 2013 354 2014 367 Years 2015 - 2019 2,030 The expected contribution to be paid to defined pension schemes in 2010 amounts to EUR 282 million (2009: EUR 423 million). 130 Actuarial gains and losses The actuarial gains and losses arising on plan liabilities and plan assets (pension plans only) are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Present value of obligations (10,566 ) (10,095 ) (9,742 ) (12,301 ) (12,403 ) Fair value of plan assets 10,211 9,489 9,969 11,149 10,212 Net surplus/ (deficit) in the plans (355 ) (606 ) 227 (1,152 ) (2,191 ) Actuarial (losses)/gains - arising on benefit obligation (180 ) (74 ) 1,501 518 (925 ) - arising on benefit obligation (in % of plan liabilities) (1.7 ) (0.7 ) 15.4 4.2 (7.5 ) Actuarial (losses)/gains - arising on plan assets 203 (909 ) (288 ) 150 399 - arising on plan assets (% in of plan assets) 2.0 (9.5 ) (2.9 ) 1.3 3.9 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 212 81 212 81 (925 ) Experience adjustments on plan assets 203 (909 ) (288 ) 150 399 Actual return on plan assets 649 (303 ) 332 782 984 Contingent liabilities There are no contingent liabilities arising from post-employment obligations. 131 28 Recognised tax assets and liabilities The components of tax balances are as follows: 2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Current tax 595 337 583 450 Deferred tax 5,427 241 4,517 250 Total 6,022 578 5,100 700 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items. In the table below only movements related to continuing operations are shown. Assets Liabilities Recognised in Tax expense 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Property and equipment (122 ) (172 ) 18 25 (35 ) 63 Derivatives 419 388 12 54 4 62 Investment securities 425 477 114 95 (114 ) 29 Employee benefits 19 21 2 2 (4 ) (73 ) Servicing rights 34 40 - - (5 ) 2 Allowances for loan losses 243 124 26 27 114 17 Other 135 206 69 47 (84 ) 454 Tax value of carry-forward losses recognised (1) 4,274 3,433 - - 655 2,424 Total 5,427 4,517 241 250 531 2,978 (1) see note 46: Related parties. Deferred tax assets that have not been recognised in respect of carry-forward losses amount to EUR 2,317 million (2008: EUR 1,780 million) where it is uncertain that future taxable profits will be available to utilise these losses. Unrecognised deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences amounts to EUR 331 million. The increase in 2009 relates to the Netherlands and the United States. Expiration of carry-forward losses At 31 December 2009 carry-forward losses, both recognised and not recognised, expire as follows: 2010 19 2011 - 2012 1 2013 - 2014 - Years after 2014 7,765 No expiration 15,667 Total 23,452 Tax exposure to distributable reserves At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is approximately EUR 4.2 billion (2008: EUR 3.5 billion). The estimated impact of foreign withholding tax is EUR 113 million (2008: EUR 103 million). No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because ABN AMRO is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 29 Other liabilities 2009 2008 Non-trading derivative liabilities (see note 36) 4,550 7,144 Liabilities to unit-linked policyholders 3,714 3,898 Sundry liabilities and other payables 5,225 3,970 Total 13,489 15,012 Liabilities to unit-linked policy holders are designated at fair value through profit and loss. 132 30 Subordinated liabilities Issued liabilities qualify as subordinated debt if claims by the holders are subordinated to all other current and future liabilities of ABN AMRO Holding N.V and its subsidiaries. As at 31 December 2009 the majority of the subordinated liabilties were issued by ABN AMRO Holding’s subsidiary, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. As at 6 February 2010, the Dutch State acquired businesses were legally demerged from this entity and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. was renamed to Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. (‘RBS N.V.’). The Dutch State acquired businesses transferred at or around 6 February 2010 into a separate legal entity ABN AMRO II N.V., also a subsidiary of ABN AMRO Holding, ABN AMRO II N.V. was renamed to ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 6 February 2010 and is referred to as the ‘new ABN AMRO Bank’. The following tables show the balance of subordinated liabilities as at 31 December 2009. Therefore the references to ABN AMRO Bank N.V. relate to the situation prior to the legal demerger in 2010. The following table analyses the subordinated liabilities by issuer: 2009 2008 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. – RBS acquired allocation 5,085 5,522 ABN AMRO Bank N.V. – Dutch State acquired allocation 6,380 5,673 Subtotal 11,465 11,195 Other ABN AMRO companies – RBS acquired allocation 2,246 2,354 Other ABN AMRO companies – Dutch State acquired allocation 833 - Subtotal 3,079 2,354 Total 14,544 13,549 133 The following table lists the subordinated liabilities issued by ABN AMRO Bank N.V.: By issuance 2009 2008 RBS acquired Dutch State acquired RBS acquired Dutch State acquired EUR 182 million 6.00% subordinated notes 2009 - - 176 - EUR 182 million 6.13% subordinated notes 2009 - - 172 - EUR 1,150 million 4.625% subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2009 - - - 1,148 EUR 250 million 4.70% CMS linked subordinated notes 2019 212 - 202 - EUR 800 million 6.25% subordinated notes 2010 819 - 838 - EUR 100 million 5.125% flip flop Bermudan callable subordinated notes 2017 (callable December 2012) 94 - 92 - EUR 500 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2018 (callable May 2013) - 499 - 498 EUR 1,000 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2016 (callable September 2011) - 997 - 997 EUR 13 million zero coupon subordinated notes 2029 (callable June 2009) 4 - 8 - EUR 82 million floating rate subordinated notes 2017 - 82 - 82 EUR 103 million floating rate subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2020 - 103 - 103 EUR 170 million floating rate sinkable subordinated notes 2041 213 - 213 - EUR 15 million CMS linked floating rate subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2020 11 - 10 - EUR 1,500 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2015 (callable June 2010) 1,495 - 1,495 - EUR 5 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2015 (callable October 2010) 5 - 5 - EUR 65 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2015 (callable October 2010) - 65 - 65 EUR 26 million 7.42% subordinated notes 2016 32 - 32 - EUR 7 million 7.38% subordinated notes 2016 9 - 9 - EUR 1,000 million 4.31% perpetual Bermudan callable subordinated tier 1 notes (callable March 2016) - 1,027 - 960 EUR 800 million 10.00% fixed perpetual mandatory convertible tier 1 notes 2099 - 800 - - EUR 967 million 10.00% fixed perpetual mandatory convertible tier 1 notes 2072 - 967 - - USD 165 million 6.14% subordinated notes 2019 148 - 158 - USD 72 million 5.98% subordinated notes 2019 38 - 52 - USD 500 million 4.65% subordinated notes 2018 359 - 411 - USD 1,500 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated notes 2015 (callable March 2010) 1,004 - 1,036 - USD 100 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2015 (callable October 2010) - 69 - 72 USD 36 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2015 (callable October 2010) - 25 - 26 USD 1,000 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2017 (callable January 2012) - 692 - 714 USD 250 million 7.75% subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2023 - 174 - 179 USD 150 million 7.13% subordinated notes 2093 104 - 107 - AUD 575 million 6.50% Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2018 (callable May 2013) 371 - 311 - AUD 175 million floating rate Bermudan callable subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2018 (callable May 2013) 109 - 86 - GBP 42 million amortising MTN subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2010 8 - 16 - GBP 25 million amortising MTN subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2011 9 - 9 - GBP 750 million 5.0% Bermudan callable perpetual subordinated upper tier 2 notes issued for an indefinite period (callable February 2016) - 880 - 829 PKR 800 million floating rate subordinated notes 2012 - - 7 - MYR 200 million subordinated notes 2017 41 - 42 - TRY 60 million floating rate callable subordinated notes 2017 (callable 2012) - - 35 - Total 5,085 6,380 5,522 5,673 As at date of signing of this annual report, all Dutch State acquired allocated subordinated liabilities, with the exception of the USD 250 million 7.75% subordinated lower tier 2 notes 2023, had been transferred to the new ABN AMRO Bank. At legal separation, the EUR 800 million and EUR 967 million 10.00% fixed perpetual mandatory convertible tier 1 notes held by the Dutch State convert to equity of the new ABN AMRO Bank. 134 The following table lists the subordinated liabilities issued by other ABN AMRO companies: By issuance 2009 2008 RBS acquired Dutch State acquired RBS acquired Dutch State acquired EUR 833 million 10.00% fixed perpetual mandatory convertible tier 1 notes 2073 - 833 - - USD 1,285 million 5.90% Trust Preferred V 891 - 921 - USD 200 million 6.25% Trust Preferred VI 135 - 143 - USD 1,800 million 6.08% Trust Preferred VII 1,220 - 1,290 - Total 2,246 833 2,354 - At legal separation, the EUR 833 million 10.00% fixed perpetual mandatory convertible tier 1 notes held by the Dutch State convert to equity of the new ABN AMRO Bank. The RBS acquired subordinated liabilities in the table above will be subject to a restriction on the payment of dividends and coupons and on the exercise of any call rights, unless in any such case there is a legal obligation to do so, for an effective period of two years after the proposed capital restructuring of RFS Holdings B.V. (which is intended to take place soon after separation) and following the expiry of any “pusher” periods (which will last for 12 months) following separation and such capital restructuring. Of the total subordinated liabilities EUR 5,014 million (2008: EUR 3,317 million) qualifies as tier 1 capital for capital adequacy purposes when taking into account remaining maturities. The maturity profile of subordinated liabilities is as follows: 2009 2008 RBS acquired Dutch State acquired RBS acquired Dutch State acquired Within one year 827 - 348 1,148 After one and within two years 9 - 854 - After two and within three years - - 9 - After three and within four years - - 7 - After four and within five years - - - - After five years 6,495 7,213 6,658 4,525 Total 7,331 7,213 7,876 5,673 The 10.00% fixed mandatory convertible tier 1 notes of EUR 2,600 million are perpetual and included in the category “after five years” despite their agreed conversion at legal separation to equity. The carrying amount at 31 December 2009 of subordinated liabilities designated at fair value was EUR 2 million lower than the contractual amount at maturity (2008: zero). The following table presents the change in fair value attributable to changes in own credit risk of issued debt securities (decrease/(increase)): Own credit component 2009 2008 During the year (2 ) 138 Cumulative 234 236 Preference financing shares (including formerly convertible preference shares) As at 24 November 2008, 1,369,815,864 Preference financing shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.56 per share have been converted into ordinary shares at a 1:1 rate. At the same date 44,988 (formerly convertible) Preference shares with a nominal value of EUR 2.24 per share have been converted into ordinary shares at a 4:1 rate. As a result of the conversion the number of issued and fully paid shares is 3,306,843,332 (nominal value EUR 1,851,832,266) per 24 November 2008. 135 31 Share capital The table below provides a breakdown of ABN AMRO Holding’s issued and fully paid ordinary shares and treasury shares. Ordinary shares Number In millions of euros Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2009 3,306,843,332 1,852 Balance at 31 December 2009 3,306,843,332 1,852 Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2008 1,936,847,516 1,085 Conversion of preference shares to ordinary shares 1,369,995,816 767 Balance at 31 December 2008 3,306,843,332 1,852 Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2007 1,936,847,516 1,085 Balance at 31 December 2007 1,936,847,516 1,085 There are no issued ordinary shares that have not been fully paid. Par value per share is EUR 0.56. Each ordinary share entitles the holder to cast one vote. Subject to certain exceptions provided for by law or in the articles of association, resolutions are passed by an absolute majority of the votes cast. When shares are issued, each holder of shares shall have pre-emptive right, in proportion to the aggregate amount of their shares, except in the case of an issue of shares for a consideration other than in cash or an issue of shares to employees of ABN AMRO or of a group company. In the event of the dissolution and liquidation of ABN AMRO Holding, the assets remaining after payment of all debts will be distributed to the holders of ordinary shares on a pro-rata basis. Treasury shares Number In millions of euros Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2009 - - Balance at 31 December 2009 - - Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2008 92,719,820 2,640 Sold to RFS Holdings B.V. (92,719,820 ) (3,708 ) Gain on sale of treasury shares - 1,068 Balance at 31 December 2008 - - Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2007 83,060,725 1,829 Used for options exercised and performance share plans (27,649,180 ) (624 ) Share buy back 55,512,333 1,847 Dividends paid in shares (18,204,058 ) (412 ) Balance at 31 December 2007 92,719,820 2,640 Share premium reserve During 2009 RFS Holdings B.V. contributed EUR 6.6 billion of share premium. 136 32 Professional securities transactions Professional security transactions include balances relating to reverse repurchase activities, cash collateral on securities borrowed and security settlement accounts. ABN AMRO controls credit risk associated with these activities by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral values on a daily basis and requiring additional collateral to be deposited with or returned to ABN AMRO when deemed necessary. 2009 2008 Banks Customers Banks Customers Assets Cash advanced under securities borrowing 2,230 2,085 739 4,408 Reverse repurchase agreements 4,130 6,977 32,716 7,236 Unsettled securities transactions 2,255 1,074 5,998 1,549 Total 8,615 10,136 39,453 13,193 Liabilities Cash received under securities lending 165 523 564 1,711 Repurchase agreements 3,903 2,187 24,555 2,525 Unsettled securities transactions 1,692 1,330 1,531 1,817 Total 5,760 4,040 26,650 6,053 Under reverse repurchase, securities borrowing, and other collateralised arrangements, ABN AMRO obtains securities on terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others. 2009 2008 Securities received under reverse repurchase and/or securities borrowing arrangements which can be repledged or resold 7,257 35,982 Of the above amount, the amount that has either been repledged or otherwise transferred to others in connection with ABN AMRO’s financing activities or to satisfy its commitments under short sale transactions 6,465 32,055 These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and reverse repurchase agreements. In 2009, ABN AMRO does not have any obligation to return any amount of securities borrowings (2008: EUR 3,458 million). Please refer to note 33 for an overview of the assets pledged to secure ABN AMRO's liabilities. 137 33 Assets pledged as security ABN AMRO trades in debt instruments, equity instruments and derivatives. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard lending and stock borrowing activities. ABN AMRO has therefore financial assets pledged as security to third parties for liabilities. Financial assets pledged to secure liabilities are as follows: 2009 2008 Financial assets held for trading - 74 Interest earnings securities available-for-sale - 400 Loans and receivables – customers 1,086 6,794 Total 1,086 7,268 These assets have been pledged in respect of the following liabilities and contingent liabilities: 2009 2008 Due to banks 130 4,298 Issued debt securities 894 2,064 Total 1,024 6,362 These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreements. Please refer to note 32 for an overview of the assets repledged to secure liabilities relating to reverse repurchase agreements and to note 40 for an overview of assets charged as security for liabilities relating to securitisations. 138 34 Commitments and contingent liabilities Credit facilities At any time ABN AMRO has outstanding commitments to extend credit. These commitments take the form of approved but undrawn loans, overdraft revolving and underwriting facilities and credit card limits. New loan offers have a commitment period that does not extend beyond the normal underwriting and settlement period. Guarantees and other commitments ABN AMRO provides financial guarantees and letters of credit to guarantee the performance of customers to third parties. These transactions have fixed limits and generally extend for periods of up to five years. Expirations are not concentrated in any particular period. ABN AMRO also provides guarantees by acting as a settlement agent in securities borrowing and lending transactions. In addition, ABN AMRO has entered into transactions to guarantee various liabilities in respect to insurance related regulatory reserve financing transactions. The contractual amounts of commitments and contingent liabilities are set out by category in the following table. The amounts stated in the table for commitments assume that amounts are fully advanced. The amounts reflected in the table for guarantees and letters of credit represent the maximum accounting loss that would be recognised at the balance sheet date if the relevant contract parties completely failed to perform as contracted. Many of the contingent liabilities and commitments are expected to expire without being advanced in whole or in part. This means that the amounts stated do not represent expected future cash flows. Additionally, guarantees and letters of credit are supported by varying levels of collateral. Aside from the items stated above, non-quantified guarantees have been given for ABN AMRO’s securities custody operations, for interbank bodies and institutions and for participating interests. Collective guarantee schemes are applicable to ABN AMRO’s companies in various countries. Furthermore, statements of liability have been issued for a number of companies, including ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Our committed credit facilities, guarantees and other commitments at 31 December 2009 and 2008 are summarised below. Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years After 5 years 2009 Committed facilities 51,520 10,811 24,881 9,390 6,438 Guarantees and other commitments: Guarantees granted 33,567 20,411 5,336 1,892 5,928 Irrevocable letters of credit 3,199 3,189 9 - 1 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 1 1 - - - 2008 Committed facilities 63,436 14,231 27,336 17,616 4,253 Guarantees and other commitments: Guarantees granted 37,509 22,377 5,890 2,021 7,221 Irrevocable letters of credit 4,515 4,280 217 6 12 Recourse risks arising from discounted bills 124 124 - - - Leasing ABN AMRO is lessee under finance and operating leases, providing asset financing for its customers and leasing assets for its own use. In addition, assets leased by ABN AMRO may be sublet to other parties. An analysis of the impact of these transactions on the statement of financial position and income statement is provided below. Operating lease commitments ABN AMRO leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights. There are no contingent rents payables. ABN AMRO also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements. 139 Where ABN AMRO is the lessee, the future minimum lease payment under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Property 2009 2008 Not more than one year 182 165 Over one year but not more than five years 391 337 More than five years 323 254 Total 896 756 Transactions involving the legal form of a lease ABN AMRO has entered into IT outsourcing arrangements that involve leases in form but not in substance. The life of the arrangement is for 5 years through 2010, where the total amount of underlying assets is EUR 130 million. Contractual and contingent obligations The table below shows the discounted contractual expiry by maturity of ABN AMRO's obligations. Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years After 5 years 2009 Issued debt securities 95,660 39,591 13,245 13,245 29,579 Subordinated liabilities 14,544 827 9 - 13,708 Purchase obligations 61 44 17 - - Other obligations 305,480 292,775 3,158 3,158 6,389 2008 Issued debt securities 111,296 44,944 21,044 21,044 24,264 Subordinated liabilities 13,549 1,513 825 47 11,164 Purchase obligations 44 44 - - - Other obligations 495,711 477,317 5,863 5,864 6,667 Other contingencies ABN AMRO is involved in a number of legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business in a number of jurisdictions. In presenting our consolidated financial statements, management makes estimates regarding the outcome of legal, regulatory and arbitration matters, and takes a charge to income when losses with respect to such matters are probable. Charges, other than those taken periodically for costs of defence, are not established for matters when losses cannot be reasonably estimated. In November 2009, the Supreme Court in the Netherlands gave a declaratory judgement against World Online International N.V., Goldman Sachs International and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. in relation to claims arising out of the World Online initial public offering of 2000. It held that these defendants had committed certain wrongful acts in connection with the initial public offering. The judgement does not establish liability or the amount of any loss. Management does not believe that any final liability or loss will have a significant effect on ABN AMRO’s financial position or profitability. On the basis of information currently available, and having taken legal counsel with legal advisors, ABN AMRO is of the opinion that the outcome of the proceedings that ABN AMRO is involved in is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position and the consolidated results of ABN AMRO. 140 35 Statement of cash flows The following table analyses the determination of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December: 2009 2008 2007 Cash and balances at central banks 28,382 5,854 12,469 Loans and receivables - banks 3,794 4,237 9,165 Due to banks (11,582 ) (23,588 ) (14,376 ) Cash and cash equivalents from continued operations 20,594 (13,497 ) 7,258 Cash and balances at central banks 146 - - Loans and receivables - banks 40 8 43 Due to banks (4 ) - - Cash and cash equivalents from businesses held for sale 182 8 43 Cash and balances at central banks - 37 4,707 Loans and receivables - banks - 6 788 Due to banks - (1 ) (44 ) Cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations - 42 5,451 Total 20,776 (13,447 ) 12,752 The following table states the interest, tax and dividend amounts included in the cash flow from operating activities: 2009 2008 2007 Interest received 14,617 31,067 34,304 Interest paid 9,139 20,092 24,960 Taxation paid - 790 1,544 Dividends received 53 121 155 The following table analyses movements in operating assets and liabilities: 2009 2008 2007 Movement in operating assets: Financial assets held for trading 134,101 27,065 (37,865 ) Loans and receivables 81,914 171,870 (87,918 ) Net (increase)/decrease in accrued income and prepaid expenses 1,111 4,015 (4,121 ) Net (increase)/decrease in other assets 7,048 (2,993 ) (3,544 ) Total movement in operating assets 224,174 199,957 (133,448 ) Movement in operating liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading (128,926 ) 37,222 10,559 Due to banks (36,414 ) (119,407 ) 82,462 Due to customers (4,911 ) (87,941 ) 27,816 Issued debt securities maturing within 1 year (11,606 ) (42,235 ) (6,475 ) Provisions 376 700 61 Net increase/(decrease) in accrued expense and deferred income (1,363 ) (1,970 ) 2,981 Net increase/(decrease) in other liabilities 4,536 (32,683 ) (2,682 ) Total movement in operating liabilities (178,308 ) (246,314 ) 114,722 141 36 Hedge accounting ABN AMRO enters into various derivative instrument transactions to hedge risks on assets, liabilities, net investments and forecasted cash flows. The accounting treatment of the hedged item and the hedging derivative is dependent on whether the hedge relationship qualifies for hedge accounting. Qualifying hedges may be designated as either fair value or cash flow hedges. Hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting The fair value changes of derivative transactions used to hedge against economic risk exposures that do not qualify for hedge accounting, or for which it is not cost beneficial to apply hedge accounting, are recognised directly through income. ABN AMRO enters into credit default swaps for managing credit risk in the loan portfolio. However, these are generally not included in hedge accounting relationships due to difficulties in demonstrating that the relationship will be highly effective. Accordingly any fair value changes in the swaps are recorded directly in income, while the gains and losses on the credit positions hedged are recognised in interest income and as impairment charges if appropriate. Derivatives designated and accounted for as hedging instruments Fair value hedges Fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate assets, notably available-for-sale securities, and liabilities due to changes in market interest rates. For qualifying fair values hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the hedged item for the risk being hedged are recognised in the income statement. Life-to-date gains/(losses) arising from fair value hedges: 2009 2008 Gains/(losses) on the hedged assets attributable to the fair value hedged risk 2,084 2,812 Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged assets (2,084 ) (2,812 ) Gains/(losses) on the hedged liabilities attributable to the fair value hedged risk (915 ) (2,619 ) Gains/(losses) on hedging instruments used for the hedged liabilities 915 2,619 Net effect fair value hedge - - Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedge accounting for Group Asset and Liability Management ABN AMRO uses derivatives, mainly interest rate swaps, to offset identified exposures to interest rate risk in the projected balance sheet. For asset liability management purposes, assets and liabilities in a similar interest rate index cluster in a particular month are first considered as a natural offset for economic hedging. A swap transaction may be entered into to risk manage the remaining interest income sensitivity. The notional amount of a pay- or receive-floating swap is designated to hedge the re-pricing cash flow exposure of a designated portion of current and forecasted assets and current and forecasted liabilities, respectively, in the clusters described above. The swap transaction is designated for hedge accounting purposes as a hedge of a gross position of a cluster of projected assets or a cluster of projected liabilities. As a result, the swap will only hedge an identified portion of a cluster of projected assets or projected liabilities. Also the swap will only hedge the applicable floating swap rate portion of the interest re-pricing and re-investment risk of the cluster. Cash flow hedge accounting operated by Group Asset and Liability Management relates to portfolio cash flow hedge accounting for the hedging activities of ABN AMRO’s non-trading financial assets and liabilities. The Group Asset and Liability Committee is the governing body for the risk management of ABN AMRO’s banking portfolio and determines the interest rate risk level, sets risk measurement and modelling including applicable assumptions, sets limits, and is responsible for the asset and liability management policy. 142 ABN AMRO manages its exposure to interest rate risk per currency in the non-trading portfolios on a group wide basis distinguished between RBS and Dutch State acquired businesses. In order to manage the sensitivity of the interest income per currency, ABN AMRO projects future interest income under different growth and interest rate scenarios. Systems are available to accumulate the relevant critical information throughout ABN AMRO about the existing financial assets, financial liabilities and forward commitments, including loan commitments. For the major currencies these positions are placed into a projected balance sheet available for asset liability management activities. The primary interest sensitive positions in the balance sheet stemming from the non-trading book are: loans and receivables, liabilities due to banks and customers, and issued debt securities. The information gathered in the Group Asset and Liability Management’s systems relates to the contractual terms and conditions, such as nominal amounts, currency, duration, interest basis, effective interest rate and interest re-pricing date. In addition other information such as estimates of prepayments, growth rate and interest scenarios is used in the interest sensitivity models of Group Asset and Liability Management. These assumptions are determined following agreed upon principles based amongst others on statistical market and client data and an economic outlook. Projected assets and liabilities are superimposed on the run-off of the currently existing positions. This information is used to create projected balance sheets that form the basis for measuring interest rate sensitivity. The new assets and liabilities and the future re-pricing of existing assets and liabilities are mapped to specific interest rate indices at the yield curve (i.e. one month, two months, three months, six months, one year, etc). In this way a new asset or liability that is for example based on a three month rate, is mapped to a specific three-month rate index. For each projected month into the future, the assets and liabilities are grouped per interest rate-index and currency. The balance sheet projection that is embedded in ABN AMRO’s interest rate risk management, not only allows ABN AMRO to estimate future interest income and perform scenario analysis, but also provides the opportunity to define the projected transactions that are eligible as hedged items in a cash flow hedge. The hedged positions are the monthly asset and liability clusters per currency and per interest rate index. These clusters are homogeneous in respect of the interest rate risk that is being hedged, because they are designed to: · share the interest rate risk exposure that is being hedged, and · be sensitive to interest rate changes proportional to the overall sensitivity to interest rate changes in the cluster. The longer the term of the hedge, the larger the excess of available cash flows from projected assets or liabilities in the clusters has to be, given that the cash flow projections further in the future are inherently less certain. The availability of an excess of cash flows in the clusters and the increase of excess over time is evaluated on a monthly basis. Furthermore back testing is performed on the sensitivity model for interest risk management purposes. This back testing also supports cash flow hedge accounting. The back testing relates to the interest sensitivity models applied and the assumptions used in the information gathering process for the balance sheet projection. Historical data are used to review the assumptions applied. The schedule of undiscounted cash flows for cash flow hedges are expected to impact profit or loss as follows: ≤ 3 months > 3 months and ≤ 1 year > 1 year and ≤ 5 years > 5 years and ≤ 10 years > 10 years Total At 31 December 2009 Cash inflow from hedging derivative assets 42 127 1,234 207 (166 ) 1,444 Cash outflow from hedging derivative liabilities (74 ) (223 ) (1,498 ) (906 ) (862 ) (3,563 ) Net cash (outflow)/inflow (32 ) (96 ) (264 ) (699 ) (1,028 ) (2,119 ) At 31 December 2008 (1) Cash inflow from hedging derivative assets 17 43 291 259 85 695 Cash outflow from hedging derivative liabilities (36 ) (90 ) (399 ) (303 ) (129 ) (957 ) Net cash (outflow)/inflow (19 ) (47 ) (108 ) (44 ) (44 ) (262 ) (1) Prior year comparatives have been restated to conform with current year presentation. 143 Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges transferred from equity to the income statement are as follows: 2009 2008 Interest income 184 43 Interest expense (139 ) (42 ) Other operating income (43 ) - Taxation - - Total 2 1 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations As explained in note 38, ABN AMRO limits its exposure to investments in foreign operations by hedging its net investment in its foreign operations with currency borrowings and with forward foreign exchange contracts in the currency of the foreign operations or a closely correlated currency to mitigate foreign exchange risk. For qualifying net investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument are recorded in the currency translation account differences reserve within equity. There is no hedge ineffectiveness recorded relating to net investment hedges. Overview of the fair value of hedging derivatives 2009 2008 Positive Negative Positive Negative Qualifying for hedge accounting Fair value hedges Interest Swaps 625 2,360 737 2,146 Foreign currency Swaps 170 43 1,072 1,540 Forwards - - 244 302 Cash flow hedges Interest swaps 331 1,337 351 687 Foreign currency Forwards - 8 2 14 Net investment hedges 11 89 119 40 Total 1,137 3,837 2,525 4,729 Hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting 1,175 713 3,697 2,414 Notional amounts 2009 2008 Interest rate risk 133,963 95,699 Foreign currency risk 4,579 13,115 Net investment hedge 3,057 2,245 144 37 Fair value of financial instruments Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where available. Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established using a valuation technique. Valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instrument’s complexity and the availability of market-based data. Internal controls over fair valuation ABN AMRO has designated controls and processes for the determination of the fair value of financial instruments. A process has been designed to ensure there are formalised review protocols for independent review and validation of fair values separate from those businesses entering into the transactions. This includes specific controls to ensure consistent pricing policies and procedures, incorporating disciplined price verification for both proprietary and counterparty risk trades. The business entering into the transaction is responsible for the initial determination and recording of the fair value of the transaction. There are daily controls over the profit or loss recorded by trading and treasury front office staff. A key element of the control environment, segregated from the recording of the transaction’s valuation, is the independent price verification process. Valuations are first calculated by the business. Such valuations may be direct prices, or may be derived using a model and variable model inputs. These valuations are reviewed, and if necessary amended, by the independent price verification process. This process involves a team independent of those trading the financial instruments performing a review of valuations in the light of available pricing evidence. Independent price verification is performed at a frequency to match the availability of independent data and the size of the exposure. For liquid instruments the process is performed daily. The minimum frequency of review is monthly for trading positions, and six monthly for non-trading positions. The independent price verification control includes formalised reporting and escalation of any valuation differences in breach of defined thresholds. When models are used to value products, those models are subject to a model review process. This process requires different levels of model documentation, testing and review, depending on the complexity of the model and the size of ABN AMRO’s exposure to the model. Valuation techniques ABN AMRO uses a number of methodologies to determine the fair values of financial instruments for which observable prices in active markets for identical instruments are not available. These techniques include relative value methodologies based on observable prices for similar instruments, present value approaches where future cash flows from the asset or liability are estimated and then discounted using a risk-adjusted interest rate, option pricing models such as Black-Scholes or binomial option pricing models and simulation models such as Monte-Carlo. Values between and beyond available data points are obtained by interpolation and extrapolation. When utilising valuation techniques, the fair value can be significantly impacted by the choice of valuation model and underlying assumptions made concerning factors such as the amounts and timing of cash flows, discount rates and credit risk. The principal inputs to these valuation techniques are listed below. · Bond prices – quoted prices are generally available for certain government bonds, certain corporate securities and some mortgage-related products. · Credit spreads – where available, these are derived from prices of credit default swaps (CDS) or other credit based instruments, such as debt securities. For others, credit spreads are obtained from pricing services. · Interest rates – these are principally benchmark interest rate curves such as the interbank rates and quoted interest rates in the swap, bond and futures markets. · Foreign currency exchange rates – there are observable markets both for spot and forward contracts and futures in the world’s major currencies. · Equity and equity index prices – quoted prices are generally readily available for equity shares listed on the world’s major stock exchanges and for major indices on such shares. · Commodity prices – many commodities are actively traded in spot and forward contracts and futures on exchanges in London, New York and other commercial centres. 145 · Price volatilities and correlations – volatility is a measure of the tendency of a price to change with time. Correlation measures the degree to which two or more prices or other variables are observed to move together. If they move in the same direction there is positive correlation; if they move in opposite directions there is negative correlation. Volatility is a key input in valuing options and the valuation of certain products such as derivatives with more than one underlying variable that are correlation-dependent. Volatility and correlation values are obtained from broker quotations, pricing services or derived from option prices. · Prepayment rates – the fair value of a financial instrument that can be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from that of an instrument that cannot be prepaid. In valuing prepayable instruments that are not quoted in active markets, ABN AMRO includes the value of the prepayment option in the fair value. · Counterparty credit spreads – adjustments are made to market prices (or parameters) when the creditworthiness of the counterparty differs from that of the assumed counterparty in the market price (or parameters). · Recovery rates / loss given default - these are used as an input to valuation models and reserves for asset-backed securities and other credit products as an indicator of severity of losses on default. Recovery rates are primarily sourced from market data providers or inferred from observable credit spreads. ABN AMRO refines and modifies its valuation techniques as markets and products develop and as the pricing for individual products becomes more or less readily available. While ABN AMRO believes its valuation techniques are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions could result in different estimates of fair value at the balance sheet date. In order to determine a reliable fair value, where appropriate, management applies valuation adjustments to the pricing information derived from the above sources. These adjustments reflect management’s assessment of factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, to the extent that these factors have not already been included in the information from the above sources. Furthermore, on an ongoing basis, management assesses the appropriateness of any model used. To the extent that the price provided by internal models does not represent the fair value of the instrument, for instance in highly stressed market conditions, management makes adjustments to the model valuation to calibrate to other available pricing sources. Where unobservable inputs are used, management may determine a range of possible valuations based upon differing stress scenarios to determine the sensitivity associated with the valuation. As a final step ABN AMRO considers the need for further adjustments to the modelled price to reflect how market participants would price instruments. Such adjustments include the credit quality of the counterparty and adjustments to correct model valuations for any known limitations. In addition, ABN AMRO makes adjustments to defer income for financial instruments valued at inception where the valuation of that financial instrument materially depends on one or more unobservable model inputs. Valuation hierarchy ABN AMRO analyses financial instruments held at fair value into the three categories as outlined below. Level 1 financial instruments are those that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. These financial instruments consist primarily of liquid listed equity shares, certain exchange-traded derivatives, and G10 government securities. Level 2 financial instruments are those valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data. Instruments in this category are valued using quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active; or valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data. Financial instruments included are other government agency securities, investment grade corporate bonds, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, less liquid listed equities, state and municipal obligations, certain money market securities and most OTC derivatives. Level 3 financial instruments are those valued using techniques that incorporate information other than observable market data. Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input, which could have a significant effect on the instrument’s valuation, is not based on observable market data. Financial instruments included are primarily cash instruments which trade 146 infrequently, unlisted equity shares, super senior tranches of high grade and mezzanine CDOs, and other less liquid debt securities. Also included are certain structured issued debt securities, OTC derivatives where valuation depends upon unobservable exotic and credit derivatives including those with Credit Derivative Product Company counterparties. The following table presents the valuation methods used in determining the fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value. Financial instruments recorded in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale are not included in these tables. 2009 Quoted market price (Level 1) Valuation techniques - observable market inputs (Level 2) Valuation techniques - unobservable inputs (Level 3) Total Financial assets Financial assets held-for-trading 14,477 61,656 1,925 78,058 Available-for-sale interest earning securities 31,178 42,296 52 73,526 Available-for-sale equities 282 371 152 805 Equities designated at fair value through income 13 17 536 566 Derivatives not held for trading - 2,312 - 2,312 Unit-linked investments 700 3,014 - 3,714 Other assets - 706 - 706 Total assets at fair value 46,650 110,372 2,665 159,687 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 6,769 55,113 805 62,687 Due to customers - - - - Issued debt securities - 38,566 1,969 40,535 Derivatives not held for trading - 4,550 - 4,550 Unit-linked liabilities 700 3,043 - 3,743 Subordinated liabilities - 704 - 704 Total liabilities at fair value 7,469 101,976 2,774 112,219 2008 Quoted market price (Level 1) Valuation techniques - observable market inputs (Level 2) Valuation techniques - unobservable inputs (Level 3) Total Financial assets Financial assets held-for-trading 14,091 193,458 5,104 212,653 Available-for-sale interest earning securities 4,923 60,621 20 65,564 Available-for-sale equities 192 546 99 837 Equities designated at fair value through income 5 193 462 660 Derivatives held not held for trading - 6,222 - 6,222 Unit-linked investments - 3,899 - 3,899 Other assets - 1,468 - 1,468 Total assets at fair value 19,211 266,407 5,685 291,303 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 6,587 184,194 1,306 192,087 Due to customers - 22 - 22 Issued debt securities - 33,133 3,723 36,856 Derivatives not held for trading - 7,143 - 7,143 Unit-linked liabilities - 3,898 - 3,898 Subordinated liabilities - 722 - 722 Total liabilities at fair value 6,587 229,112 5,029 240,728 Transfers between level 1 and 2 The movement between levels 1 and 2 is attributable to amongst others a move of EUR 15 billion interest earning securities from level 2 to level 1 due to increased liquidity of the markets and availability of prices. Additionally certain OTC foreign exchange derivatives (assets of EUR 2.1 billion and liabilities of EUR 2.1 billion) and Asian government debt securities (EUR 1.5 billion) were transferred from level 1 to level 2 reflecting refinements of hierarchy level classification in 2009. 147 Level 3 sensitivity analysis The tables below present the Level 3 financial instruments carried at fair value as at the balance sheet date, the valuation basis, main assumptions and unobservable inputs used in the valuation of these instruments for which the reasonably possible alternative assumptions would have a significant impact on the fair value of the instrument. (in millions of euros) Reasonably possible alternative assumptions Valuation technique Main assumptions Carrying value Increase in fair value Decrease in fair value Financial assets Debt securities: Structured loans Proprietary model Credit spreads, indices 575 51 29 Other Proprietary model Credit spreads, indices 148 28 7 Derivatives: Credit Proprietary CVA model, industry option models, correlation model Counterparty credit risk, correlation, volatility 813 39 39 Other 401 35 34 Equity shares Private equity – valuation statements Fund valuations 728 178 122 Balance at 31 December 2009 2,665 331 231 Financial liabilities Derivatives: Credit Proprietary CVA model, industry option models, correlation model Correlation, volatility, counterparty credit risk 279 52 39 Other 526 107 31 Issued debt securities Proprietary model Credit spreads, volatility, correlation 1,969 13 53 Balance at 31 December 2009 2,774 172 123 148 (in millions of euros) Reasonably possible alternative assumptions Valuation technique Main assumptions Carrying value Increase in fair value Decrease in fair value Financial assets Debt securities: 1,059 117 151 CDOs Proprietary model, industry standard, simulation model Implied collateral valuation, default rates, housing prices, correlation, credit spreads and recovery rates 670 107 107 CLOs 105 2 10 Other 284 8 34 Derivatives: 4,065 629 830 Credit Proprietary CVA model, industry option models, correlation model Counterparty credit risk, correlation, volatility 1,645 208 371 Other 2,420 421 459 Equity shares Private equity – valuation statements Fund valuations 561 40 80 Balance at 31 December 2008 5,685 786 1,061 Financial liabilities Derivatives: 1,306 175 199 Credit Proprietary CVA model, industry option models, correlation model Correlation, volatility, counterparty credit risk 1,029 130 147 Other 277 45 52 Issued debt securities Proprietary model Credit spreads, volatility, correlation 3,723 151 166 Balance at 31 December 2008 5,029 326 365 The total estimated change in fair value using a valuation technique with unobservable inputs recognised in the profit and loss account for the year 2009 is a loss of EUR 421 million (2008: loss of EUR 662 million). For each of the portfolio categories shown in the above table, set out below is a description of the types of products that comprise the portfolio and the valuation techniques that are applied in determining fair value, including a description of models used and inputs to those models. Where reasonably possible alternative assumptions of unobservable inputs used in models would change the fair value of the portfolio significantly, the alternative inputs are indicated along with the impact these would have on the fair value. Where there have been significant changes to valuation techniques during the year a discussion of the reasons for this is also included. Financial assets in level 3 in 2009 primarily comprise derivatives and equity shares. Derivatives Level 3 derivative assets and liabilities are comprised of credit derivatives and other derivatives. Derivatives are priced using quoted prices for the same or similar instruments where these are available. Certain derivatives are valued using pricing models. Inputs for these models are usually observed directly in the market, or derived from observed prices. However, it is not always possible to observe or corroborate all model inputs. Unobservable inputs used are based on estimates taking into account a range of available information including historic analysis, historic traded levels, market practice, comparison to other relevant benchmark observable data and consensus pricing data. Credit derivatives ABN AMRO’s credit derivatives include vanilla and bespoke portfolio tranches, gap risk products and certain other unique trades. The bespoke portfolio tranches are synthetic tranches referenced to a portfolio of corporate names on which ABN AMRO purchases credit protection. Bespoke portfolio tranches are valued using Gaussian Copula, a standard method which uses observable market inputs (credit spreads, index tranche prices and recovery rates) to generate an output price for the tranche via a mapping methodology. In essence this method takes the expected loss of the tranche expressed as a fraction of the 149 expected loss of the whole underlying portfolio and calculates which detachment point on the liquid index, and hence which correlation level, coincides with this expected loss fraction. Where the inputs into the valuation technique used are observable in the market, bespoke tranches are considered to be level 2 assets. Where inputs are not observable, bespoke tranches are considered to be level 3 assets. Gap risk products are leveraged trades with the counterparty’s potential loss capped at the amount of the initial principal invested. Gap risk is the probability that the market will move discontinuously too quickly to exit a portfolio and return the principal to the counterparty without incurring losses, should an unwind event be triggered. This optionality is embedded within these portfolio structures and is very rarely traded outright in the market. Gap risk is not observable in the markets and, as such, these structures are deemed to be level 3 instruments. Other unique trades are valued using a specialised model for each instrument and the same market data inputs as all other trades where applicable. By their nature, the valuation is also driven by a variety of other model inputs, many of which are unobservable in the market. Where these instruments have embedded optionality it is valued using a variation of the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, and where they have correlation exposure it is valued using a variant of the Gaussian Copula model. The volatility or unique correlation inputs required to value these products are generally unobservable and the instruments are therefore deemed to be level 3 instruments. Equity derivatives Equity derivative products are split into equity exotic derivatives and equity hybrids. Equity exotic derivatives have payouts based on the performance of one or more stocks, equity funds or indices. Most payouts are based on the performance of a single asset and are valued using observable market option data. Unobservable equity derivative trades are typically complex basket options on stocks. Such basket option payouts depend on the performance of more than one equity asset and require correlations for their valuation. Valuation is then performed using industry standard valuation models, with unobservable correlation inputs calculated by reference to correlations observed between similar underlyings. Equity hybrids have payouts based on the performance of a basket of underlyings where the underlyings are from different asset classes. Correlations between these different underlyings are typically unobservable with no market information for closely related assets available. Where no market for the correlation input exists, these inputs are based on historical time series. Interest rate, commodity and foreign exchange derivatives Interest rate, commodity and foreign exchange options provide a payout (or series of payouts) linked to the performance of one or more underlying, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodities. Exotic options do not trade in active markets except in a small number of cases. Consequently, ABN AMRO uses models to determine fair value using valuation techniques typical for the industry. These techniques can be divided, firstly, into modelling approaches and, secondly, into methods of assessing appropriate levels for model inputs. ABN AMRO uses a variety of proprietary models for valuing exotic trades. Exotic valuation inputs include correlation between interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. Correlations for more liquid rate pairs are valued using independently sourced consensus pricing levels. Where a consensus pricing benchmark is unavailable, these instruments are categorised as level 3. Reasonably possible alternative assumptions For all level 3 derivatives, unobservable inputs are principally comprised of correlations, volatilities and counterparty credit risks. Where a derivative valuation relies significantly on an unobservable input, the valuation is shown in level 3. It is usual for such derivative valuations to depend on several observable, and one or few unobservable model inputs. In determining reasonably possible alternative assumptions, the relative impact of unobservable inputs as compared to those which may be observed was considered within a certain range. Equities designated at fair value through income Equities designated at fair value through income classified as level 3 include mainly private equity investments. In general private equity investments cannot be valued directly from quoted market prices or 150 by using valuation techniques supported by observable market prices or other market data. The fair value is determined using a valuation technique applied in accordance with the European Private Equity and Venture Capitalist Association guidelines (EVCA). Reasonably possible alternative assumptions relate mainly to terminal and explicit growth rates, as well as a range of observable price multiples. Other assets Other level 3 financial instruments comprise mainly trading customer structured debt securities. Where observable market prices for a particular debt security are not available, the fair value will typically be determined with reference to observable market transactions in other related products, such as similar debt securities or credit derivatives.These loans are primarily traded alongside a CDS hedge to eliminate the credit risk and valued at the traded spread over LIBOR using standard discounted cashflow methodology. In determining reasonable possible alternative assumptions ABN AMRO considered spreads from available market prices in determining the inputs to the valuation methodology applied. Issued debt securities Issued debt securities classified as level 3 are valued using independent quotes from market participants for the debt issuance spreads above average interbank rates (at a range of tenors) which the market would demand when purchasing new senior or sub-debt issuances from ABN AMRO. Where necessary, these quotes are interpolated using a curve shape derived from CDS prices. The movements in level 3 assets and liabilities are presented below. Level 3 movements At 01 January 2009 Gains and losses recognised in income statement or OCI Transfers in/(out) of level 3 Transfers to RBS Purchases and issues Sales and settlements Foreign exchange At 31 December 2009 Gains and losses relating to instruments held at year end Financial assets Debt Securities Held for trading 1,039 4 44 (1,020 ) 12 (64 ) 80 95 (85 ) Available-for-sale 17 (4 ) 54 (70 ) 70 (13 ) (1 ) 53 (1 ) Designated at fair value 3 - - - - (3 ) - - - Equity shares Held for trading - - 41 - - - - 41 - Available-for-sale 99 84 (29 ) - - (2 ) - 152 85 Designated at fair value 462 (10 ) 147 - (10 ) (50 ) (3 ) 536 (32 ) Derivatives 4,065 (783 ) (647 ) (1,951 ) 238 (28 ) 319 1,213 (784 ) Other assets - 29 546 - - - - 575 4 Total assets 5,685 (680 ) 156 (3,041 ) 310 (160 ) 395 2,665 (813 ) Financial liabilities Derivatives 1,306 (254 ) (214 ) - - (119 ) 86 805 (238 ) Issued debt securities 3,723 37 (1,933 ) - 472 (409 ) 79 1,969 37 Total liabilities 5,029 (217 ) (2,147 ) - 472 (528 ) 165 2,774 (201 ) Net gains and losses relating to assets recognised in the income statement and other comprehensive income were EUR 764 million loss and EUR 84 million respectively. Net gains and losses relating to liabilities have been recognised in the income statement. Gains and losses recognised on assets held for trading and derivatives have been included in income from trading activities. Gains and losses on available-for-sale assets have been included in results from financial transactions and interest income. Level 3 movements Level 3 assets and liabilities decreased in the year mainly due to novations of positions to RBS Group, disposals, write downs and reclassifications in 2009. 151 The decrease in debt securities and derivatives of respectively EUR 0.9 billion and EUR 2.9 billion was primarily due to novations to RBS Group of portfolios that are not part of the RBS acquired businesses included in ABN AMRO in the future. Issued debt securities show a decrease of EUR 1.9 billion mainly due to a transfer from level 3 to level 2 of constant proportion portfolio insurance notes reflecting the expiration of the derivatives embedded in these notes in 2009. In addition refinements of hierarchy levels resulted in transfers to level 2 of derivative assets and liabilities as well as from level 2 to level 3 of trading book loans. Day one profits Where model inputs are considered unobservable and have more than an insignificant impact on the valuation, any gains on initial recognition are deferred on the balance sheet, as a Day 1 profit and loss reserve, and amortised over the life of the instruments. The table below shows the movement in the reserve: 2009 2008 Unamortised balance at 1 January 124 191 Deferral of profit on new transactions 18 107 Recognised in the income statement during the period: Subsequent to observability (4 ) (3 ) Amortisation (17 ) (58 ) Maturity or termination (78 ) (83 ) Exchange differences 6 (30 ) Unamortised balance at 31 December 49 124 Own credit In certain circumstances ABN AMRO designates financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss. Designation is performed either to eliminate an accounting mismatch, for example, where the liability funds trading positions, or because the debt is managed and assessed on a fair value basis. When valuing financial liabilities recorded at fair value, IFRS requires that an entity take into account the impact of its own credit standing, which, in aggregate, could have a significant impact on the valuation of the liabilities. The categories of financial liabilities on which own credit spread adjustments are made include issued debt securities, subordinated liabilities, and derivatives. An own credit adjustment is applied to positions where it is believed that counterparties will consider ABN AMRO’s creditworthiness when pricing trades including retail notes issuances. ABN AMRO’s trading systems discount future cash outflows for liabilities measured at fair value at interbank offer rates. The adjustment for own credit spread represents the difference between the interbank offer rate and the rate which includes ABN AMRO’s own market-perceived risk of default. In general, it is anticipated that gains and losses arising from changes in ABN AMRO’s own credit spread will reverse over the life of the instrument unless repurchased. For issued debt securities, this adjustment is based on independent quotes from market participants for the debt issuance spreads above average interbank rates (at a range of tenors) which the market would demand when purchasing new debt issuances from ABN AMRO. Where necessary, these quotes are interpolated using a curve shape derived from CDS prices. For subordinated liabilities and covered bonds the own credit adjustment is based on the fair values of ABN AMRO’s senior notes which are observable. ABN AMRO also considers the impact of own credit spreads when valuing derivative liabilities. In general, the impact is significant only for derivative liabilities that are not collateralised. In these circumstances, the own credit spread is calculated using credit spreads implied by CDSs. The table below shows the own credit spread adjustments on liabilities recorded in the income statement during the year and a cumulative adjustment as at year end. 152 Subordinated liabilities Issued debt securities Subtotal Derivatives Total 2009 2008 Cumulative at 1 January 236 715 951 75 1,026 359 Effect of changes to credit spreads (2 ) 175 173 (18 ) 155 565 Foreign exchange effect - 47 47 1 48 102 At 31 December 234 937 1,171 58 1,229 1,026 Financial assets and liabilities not carried at fair value The following methods and significant assumptions have been applied to estimate the fair values of financial instruments carried at cost: · The fair value of variable rate financial instruments and those of a fixed rate nature maturing within 6 months of the balance sheet date are assumed to approximate their carrying amounts. In the case of such loans, the fair value estimate does not reflect changes in credit quality, as the main impact of credit risk is already recognised separately through the deduction of the allowances for credit losses from the carrying amounts. · The fair value of fixed rate loans and mortgages carried at amortised cost is estimated by comparing market interest rates when the loans were granted with current market rates offered on similar loans. Changes in the specific credit quality of loans within the portfolio are not taken into account in determining fair values, as the main impact of specific credit risk is already recognised separately through the deduction of the allowances for credit losses from the carrying amounts and the latent loss provisions. · The fair value of demand deposits and savings accounts (included in due to customers) with no specific maturity is assumed to be the amount payable on demand at the balance sheet date. The fair value of the other loans to customers and loans to banks is estimated by comparing market interest rates when the loans were granted with current market rates offered on similar loans. · The fair value of issued debt securities and subordinated liabilities is based on quoted prices. Where these are not available, fair value is based on expected cashflows discounted using independent quotes from market participants for the debt issuance spreads above average interbank rates (at a range of tenors) which the market would demand when purchasing new senior or sub-debt issuances from ABN AMRO. Where necessary, these quotes are interpolated using a curve shape derived from CDS prices. The following table compares the carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost to their estimated fair values(1): 2009 2008 Carrying amount Fair value Difference Carrying amount Fair value Difference Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 28,382 28,382 - 5,854 5,854 - Interest earning securities HTM - - - - - - Loans and receivables - banks 39,659 39,357 (302 ) 75,566 75,322 (244 ) Loans and receivables - customers 218,246 210,698 (7,548 ) 270,119 267,258 (2,861 ) Total 286,287 278,437 (7,850 ) 351,539 348,434 (3,105 ) Financial liabilities Due to banks 46,145 45,960 185 94,620 94,627 (7 ) Due to customers 196,648 196,597 51 208,984 210,392 (1,408 ) Issued debt securities 55,124 54,469 655 74,440 72,030 2,410 Subordinated liabilities 13,839 13,059 780 12,837 8,183 4,654 Total 311,756 310,085 1,671 390,881 385,232 5,649 (1) Negative amounts represent a reduction to net assets. Positive amounts represent an increase to net assets. 153 38 Financial risk management Financial instrument risk disclosures This section provides details of the exposure to risk arising from financial instruments and how those risks are managed. In addition, this note includes a discussion on the extent to which financial instruments are used, the associated risks and the business purpose served. The most important types of risk associated with financial instruments are: · Credit risk and country event risk; · Liquidity risk; · Interest rate risk (banking book positions); and · Market risk (trading portfolio) including liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk and commodity risk of the trading book. Below is a short description of credit, liquidity, interest rate and market risk within ABN AMRO’s financial instruments portfolio and their impact on ABN AMRO’s financial position and performance as shown in the quantitative tables. Credit risk Measurement and control ABN AMRO is subject to credit risk through its lending, trading, hedging and investing activities as well as in cases where it acts as an intermediary on behalf of customers or other third parties or issues guarantees. Senior management is responsible for establishing the credit policies and the mechanisms, organisation and procedures required to analyse, manage and control credit risk. In this respect, counterparty limits are set and an internal system of credit ratings is applied. The primary exposure to credit risk arises through loans, credit facilities and guarantees issued, financial assets held for trading (interest earning securities and derivatives) and derivatives used for hedging. The risk that counterparties might default on their obligations is monitored on an ongoing basis. For each transaction it is evaluated whether collateral or a master netting agreement is required to help mitigate the credit risk. Maximum exposure to credit risk The amounts stated in the table represent the maximum accounting loss that would be recognised at the balance sheet date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted and any collateral or security proved to be of no value. Consequently, the amounts significantly exceed expected losses in the event of counterparty default. 2009 2008 Derivative assets held for trading 54,234 178,896 Interest earning securities 73,526 65,564 Loans and receivables – banks 31,044 36,113 Loans and receivables – customers 207,845 252,050 Professional securities transactions 18,751 52,646 Multi-seller conduits 265 5,264 Committed credit facilities 51,520 63,436 Credit related contingent liabilities 36,767 42,148 Total 473,952 696,117 The maximum credit exposure on derivative assets held for trading is measured as the current positive fair value. For interest-earning securities the amortised cost rather than the carrying value is included to reflect the credit risk exposure. For a breakdown of counterparties for interest-earning securities in the available-for-sale category please refer to note 15. According to the requirements of the DNB, ABN AMRO has no individually significant exposure to any single counterparty in the category loans and receivables. 154 Credit risk concentrations Concentrations of credit risk (whether on- or off-balance sheet) that share similar characteristics such that their ability to meet contractual obligations is likely to be affected in a similar way to changes in economic or other conditions. As part of managing risk concentrations, country risk and sector risk are managed on a portfolio basis. Refer to the following tables for details of the credit risk concentrations on the customer portfolio. Credit risk concentrations by geography and sector 2009 2008 Outstanding % (1) Outstanding % (1) Netherlands Loans and receivables to banks 10,404 26 15,041 20 Loans and receivables to public sector 1,678 61 1,590 18 Loans and receivables to commercial 56,504 55 66,043 48 Loans and receivables to consumer 103,822 97 102,727 94 Total 172,408 185,401 Europe (excluding Netherlands) Loans and receivables to banks 23,921 60 56,815 75 Loans and receivables to public sector 478 18 544 6 Loans and receivables to commercial 30,081 29 45,477 33 Loans and receivables to consumer 110 - 2,384 2 Total 54,590 105,220 North America Loans and receivables to banks 663 2 902 1 Loans and receivables to public sector 89 3 105 1 Loans and receivables to commercial 5,032 5 9,206 7 Loans and receivables to consumer 1 - – Total 5,785 10,213 Latin America Loans and receivables to banks 181 1 156 - Loans and receivables to public sector - - – Loans and receivables to commercial 368 - 531 - Loans and receivables to consumer 3 - 4 - Total 552 691 Asia Pacific Loans and receivables to banks 4,565 11 2,698 4 Loans and receivables to public sector 477 18 6,547 75 Loans and receivables to commercial 11,433 11 17,227 12 Loans and receivables to consumer 3,405 3 4,183 4 Total 19,880 30,655 Total Loans and receivables to banks(2) 39,734 75,612 Loans and receivables to public sector 2,722 8,786 Loans and receivables to commercial 103,418 138,484 Loans and receivables to consumer 107,341 109,298 Total 253,215 332,180 Professional securities transactions - customers 10,136 13,193 Multi-seller conduits 265 5,264 Total loans and receivables 263,616 350,637 (1) Calculated as a percentage of the total for banks, public, commercial and consumer sectors respectively. (2) Includes professional securities transactions - banks amounting to EUR 8,615 million (2008: EUR 39,453 million) 155 Credit risk concentrations from credit facilities and guarantees issued by geography: 2009 2008 Outstanding % (1) Outstanding % (1) Netherlands Guarantees and other commitment 4,703 13 4,228 10 Committed credit facilities 14,053 27 17,552 28 Total 18,756 21,780 Europe (excluding Netherlands) Guarantees and other commitment 21,055 57 25,083 59 Committed credit facilities 20,570 40 23,351 36 Total 41,625 48,434 North America Guarantees and other commitment 6,423 17 6,884 16 Committed credit facilities 14,115 28 18,220 29 Total 20,538 25,104 Latin America Guarantees and other commitment 154 1 230 1 Committed credit facilities 220 - 320 1 Total 374 550 Asia Pacific Guarantees and other commitment 4,432 12 5,723 14 Committed credit facilities 2,562 5 3,993 6 Total 6,994 9,716 Total Guarantees and other commitment 36,767 42,148 Committed credit facilities 51,520 63,436 Total 88,287 105,584 (1) Calculated as a percentage of the totals for credit related contingent liabilities and committed credit facilities respectively. Total commercial loans and receivables by industry are presented in the table below: 2009 2008 Outstanding % Outstanding % Central and local government 663 1 523 - Manufacturing 19,530 19 30,980 22 Construction 1,638 1 1,967 1 Finance 25,784 25 33,996 25 Service industries and other business activities 45,599 44 56,353 41 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 5,216 5 5,099 4 Property and mortgages 4,988 5 9,566 7 Total 103,418 138,484 Total consumer loans and receivables by product type are presented in table below: 2009 2008 Outstanding % Outstanding % Mortgages 95,069 89 94,147 86 Personal lending 740 1 1,667 2 Credit Card 327 - 1,394 1 Other consumer loans 11,205 10 12,090 11 Total 107,341 109,298 Collateral It is ABN AMRO’s policy to reduce or mitigate credit risk on credit facilities or exposure, as much as possible in a given commercial environment by securing credit facilities or exposure with collateral. To correctly assess the extent to which the collateral mitigates the credit risk the collateral must be valued according to a specified valuation method and properly documented and monitored. 156 Collateral is obtained if and when required prior to the disbursement of approved loans. Guarantees and letters of credit are also subject to strict credit assessments before being provided. The extent of collateral held for guarantees and letters of credit is on average 13% (2008: 16%). ABN AMRO does not disclose the fair value of collateral held as security or other credit enhancements on loans and advances past due but not impaired, or on individually assessed impaired loans and advances, as it is not practicable to do so. The following table details loans and receivables from commercial and consumer clients by type of collateral obtained. 2009 2008 Commercial customers Public authority guarantees 7,484 5,712 Mortgages 5,553 5,687 Securities 1,827 2,291 Bank guarantees 3,673 5,082 Other types of collateral 23,665 48,289 Unsecured 61,216 71,423 Total 103,418 138,484 Consumer customers Public authority guarantees 498 187 Mortgages 95,069 94,146 Securities 560 804 Bank guarantees 13 19 Other types of collateral 2,408 4,861 Unsecured 8,793 9,281 Total 107,341 109,298 Credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired 31 December 2009 The credit quality of the portfolio of financial assets can be assessed with reference to ABN AMRO’s internal credit rating system which reflects the probability of default of an obligor, i.e. the likelihood that a counterparty fails to pay interest and/or principal and/or other financial obligations to the bank. ABN AMRO’s internal counterparty ratings are a crucial tool for managing and monitoring the credit risk of the bank, both at counterparty and portfolio level. The counterparty rating is based on many aspects including both a financial and non-financial analysis of the counterparty. Each counterparty to whom ABN AMRO grants any type of credit facility or who has an exposure is assigned a Uniform Counterparty Rating (UCR) on a scale of 1 to 8, whereby UCR 1 is of prime quality while UCR 6-8 is, by definition, 'in default' according to the ABN AMRO definition of default. The table below gives an overview of the relation between the internal ratings of ABN AMRO (UCR) and the counterparty’s long-term average (through-the-cycle) probability of default and an indication of how the internal ratings of ABN AMRO compare to the external rating agencies Standards & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s. 1 2+ till 2- 3+ till 3- 4+ till 4- 5+ till 5- 6+ 6-8 UCR Expected default rates (%) 2009 0-0.03 0.04-0.10 0.19-0.42 0.68-1.96 3.54-12.92 26.18 100 Standards & Poor’s / Fitch AAA/AA- A+/A- BBB+/BBB- BB+/BB- B+/B- CCC+/C – Moody’s AAA/Aa3 A1/A3 Baa1/Baa3 Ba1/-Ba3 B1-B3 Caa1/C – The following tables show the credit quality of the financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired on respectively 31 December 2009 and 2008: 157 Neither past due nor impaired at 31 December 2009(1): 1 2+ till 2- 3+ till 3- 4+ till 4- 5+ till 5- 6 + Not rated Total 2009 UCR Interest earning securities in Banking Book 61,475 5,754 1,868 631 2 264 3,532 73,526 Loans and receivables - Banks 25,473 6,880 872 4,744 129 407 1,111 39,616 Loans and receivables - Public sector 962 1,148 11 325 208 60 8 2,722 Loans and receivables - Commercial 5,949 8,172 19,443 33,437 12,843 8,485 7,632 95,961 Derivatives 20,470 17,611 6,091 6,029 866 1,023 4,456 56,546 Off-balance instruments 2,625 15,678 18,591 8,237 2,147 3,480 762 51,520 Total 116,954 55,243 46,876 53,403 16,195 13,719 17,501 319,891 (1) Excluding discontinued operations Neither past due nor impaired at 31 December 2008(1): 1 2+ till 2- 3+ till 3- 4+ till 4- 5+ till 5- 6 + Not rated Total 2008 UCR Interest earning securities in Banking Book 53,518 4,103 874 1,710 42 388 4,930 65,565 Loans and receivables - Banks 54,495 10,402 2,499 1,416 247 879 5,626 75,564 Loans and receivables - Public sector 7,562 236 175 462 196 29 125 8,785 Loans and receivables - Commercial 8,934 15,872 34,947 43,852 11,710 6,692 11,204 133,211 Derivatives 117,976 31,868 6,011 7,895 1,014 3,440 16,914 185,118 Off-balance instruments 7,841 17,576 19,058 4,497 1,235 8,132 5,097 63,436 Total 250,326 80,057 63,564 59,832 14,444 19,560 43,896 531,679 (1) Excluding discontinued operations Credit quality of consumer loans Loans and receivables consumer of EUR 104,200 million (2008: EUR 106,457 million) are not rated. An indication of the credit quality of these loans and receivables can be derived from the table below and the collateral obtained for the loans and receivables as well as the geographical breakdown of the underlying products of the portfolio as included in the earlier table within this note. Credit quality of financial assets that are past due but not impaired The tables below show the analysis of the financial assets that are past due but not impaired: Past due ≤ 30 days Past due > 30 - ≤90 days Past due > 90 - ≤180 days Past due > 180 days - ≤ 1 year Past due > 1 year Total 31 December 2009 Loans and receivables – commercial 360 122 106 28 7 623 Loans and receivables – consumer 1,357 635 4 5 1 2,002 Past due ≤ 30 days Past due > 30 - ≤90 days Past due > 90 - ≤180 days Past due > 180 days - ≤ 1 year Past due > 1 year Total 31 December 2008 Loans and receivables – commercial 191 229 66 9 6 501 Loans and receivables – consumer 1,554 912 28 5 4 2,503 ABN AMRO does not disclose the fair value of collateral held as security or other credit enhancements on loans and advances past due but not impaired, or on individually assessed impaired loans and advances, as it is not practicable to do so. 158 Credit structuring ABN AMRO structures investments to provide specific risk profiles to investors. This may involve the sale of credit exposures, often by way of credit derivatives, to an entity which subsequently funds the credit exposures by issuing securities. These securities may initially be held by ABN AMRO prior to a sale to external parties. Liquidity risk Measurement and control Liquidity risk arises in any bank’s general funding of its activities. For example, a bank may be unable to fund its portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, or may find itself unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price. ABN AMRO holds capital to absorb unexpected losses, and manages liquidity to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet not only the known cash funding requirements, but also any unanticipated ones that may arise. At all times, ABN AMRO maintains what we believe to be adequate levels of liquidity on a group-wide basis to meet deposit withdrawals, repay borrowings and fund new loans, even under stressed conditions. ABN AMRO manages liquidity on a daily basis in all the countries in which it operates. Each national market is unique in terms of the scope and depth of its financial markets, competitive environment, products and customer profile. Therefore local line management is responsible for managing our local liquidity requirements under the supervision of Group Asset and Liability Management on behalf of the Group Asset and Liability Committee. On a day-to-day basis ABN AMRO’s liquidity management depends on, among other things, the effective functioning of local and international financial markets. As this is not always the case, group-wide contingency funding plans are in place. These plans are put into effect in the event of a dramatic change in the normal business activities or in the stability of the local or international financial markets. As part of this liquidity management contingency planning, ABN AMRO continually assess potential trends, demands, commitments, events and uncertainties that could reasonably result in increases or decreases in our liquidity. More specifically, ABN AMRO considers the impact of these potential changes on its sources of short-term funding and long-term liquidity planning. As ABN AMRO has entered into committed credit facilities, the liquidity management process also involves assessing the potential effect of the contingencies inherent in these types of transactions on normal sources of liquidity and finance. During the year the remainder of the multiseller conduits were transferred to RBS Group with only one own asset conduit remaining within ABN AMRO. The outstanding of this program as at 31 December 2009 was approximately EUR 8.7 billon (2008: EUR 17.8 billion) Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities The table below summarises the maturity profile of ABN AMRO's financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December. Trading derivatives are shown at fair value in a separate column. All derivatives used for hedging purposes are shown by maturity, based on their contractual remaining undiscounted cash flows. This is not consistent with how ABN AMRO looks at liquidity as the models used also take into account the expected behaviour of customers and other factors. 159 Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2009: On demand Trading derivatives ≤ 1 year > 1 year- < 5 years > 5 years Maturity not applicable Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 7,208 - 21,325 - 30 - 28,563 Financial assets held for trading 11,478 54,234 - - - 12,346 78,058 Financial investments 74 - 12,316 25,183 52,306 1,371 91,250 Loans and receivables - banks 21,323 - 15,567 1,828 1,297 - 40,015 Loans and receivables - customers 27,143 - 39,808 40,274 169,458 - 276,683 Other assets - non derivatives - - 182 536 60 29,375 * 30,153 Other assets - derivatives - - 690 2,974 511 - 4,175 Total 67,226 54,234 89,888 70,795 223,662 43,092 548,897 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 4,536 58,151 - - - - 62,687 Due to banks 14,435 - 28,241 3,150 1,201 - 47,027 Due to customers 94,190 - 94,732 3,652 6,758 - 199,332 Issued debt securities 245 - 40,005 29,152 39,486 - 108,888 Subordinated liabilities - - 843 47 18,869 - 19,759 Other liabilities - non derivatives 1,661 - 59 673 1,811 31,002 35,206 Other liabilities - derivatives - - 963 3,554 3,684 - 8,201 Total 115,067 58,151 164,843 40,228 71,809 31,002 481,100 Off-balance liabilities (see note 34) Guarantees 33,568 33,568 Irrevocable facilities 3,199 3,199 Committed facilities 51,520 51,520 * includes equity accounted investments, property and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, assets which are held for sale, accrued income and prepaid expenses, tax and other assets. Maturity based on contractual undiscounted cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2008: On demand Trading derivatives ≤ 1year > 1 year- ≤ 5 years > 5 years Maturity not applicable Total Assets Cash and balances at central banks 5,400 - 426 - 50 - 5,876 Financial assets held for trading 21,327 178,896 - - 12,430 212,653 Financial investments - - 7,979 17,166 63,540 1,497 90,182 Loans and receivables - banks 4,237 - 69,445 3,005 1,317 - 78,004 Loans and receivables - customers 33,976 - 73,520 51,979 185,126 - 344,601 Other assets - non derivatives 21 - 509 57 60 32,027 32,674 Other assets - derivatives - - 1,976 151 547 - 2,674 Total 64,961 178,896 153,855 72,358 250,640 45,954 766,664 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 5,413 186,674 - - - - 192,087 Due to banks 25,309 - 65,461 4,816 1,376 - 96,962 Due to customers 79,226 - 118,548 8,204 7,599 - 213,577 Issued debt securities 608 - 45,360 47,921 35,474 - 129,363 Subordinated liabilities - - 1,551 1,005 16,835 - 19,391 Other liabilities - non derivatives 3,757 - 40 56 57 20,888 24,798 Other liabilities - derivatives - - 2,403 436 2,303 - 5,142 Total 114,313 186,674 233,363 62,438 63,644 20,888 681,320 Off-balance liabilities (see note 34) Guarantees 37,509 37,509 Irrevocable facilities 4,639 4,639 Committed facilities 63,436 63,436 160 Interest rate risk of the banking book The Earnings Risk table below shows the cumulative sensitivity of net interest income and equity over a time horizon of 12 and 24 months, under ’rate rise’ and ‘rate fall’ scenarios. Sensitivity is defined as the percentage change in net interest income relative to a base case scenario. The base case scenario assumes continuation of the present yield curve environment. The ‘rates rise’ and ‘rates fall’ scenarios assume a gradual parallel shift of the yield curve during 12 months, after which the curve remains unchanged. The sensitivity analysis is limited to the euro as this is the main currency in which ABN AMRO has its earnings. The rates rise and rates fall scenarios for the euro are 200 basis points for both years presented. In case of a rate fall there is an effective floor of 0%. The following table shows the possible cumulative percentage change in income over the relevant time horizon. Earnings Risk (in percentages) Horizon December 2009 December 2008 Rate rise One year (1.1%) (4.1%) Two years (1.6%) (5.0%) Rate fall One year (4.5%) 2.4% Two years (9.2%) 0.5% The Earnings risk table below gives the 2009 cumulative change in net interest income over the relevant time horizon in absolute numbers. Earnings Risk (in millions of euros) Horizon December 2009 December 2008 Rate rise One year (35) (105) Two years (109) (271) Rate fall One year (146) 62 Two years (610) 26 The Market Value Risk table below shows the sensitivity of the market value of equity to changes in interest rates for the euro. Market value of equity is defined as the discounted value of assets, minus discounted value of liabilities, plus the market value of derivatives and other interest sensitive items in the banking book. Sensitivity is measured as the percentage value change due to an overnight interest rate change shock. The size of the shock is based on observed changes of the curve in a month and a 99% confidence level. The shock rate change for the euro was 50 basis points for both years. Due to the separation of ABN AMRO and related transfers of some portfolios after the take-over both years are not fully comparable. Market Value Risk (in percentages) December 2009 December 2008 Rate rise (2.5%) (3.8%) Rate fall 1.7% 3.3% Sensitivity analysis is based upon our interest rate risk modelling of assets and liabilities and is used for risk management purposes only. The model above assumes that during the course of the year no other changes are made in the respective portfolio. Earnings Risk shows one possible prediction based upon the model and actual changes in net interest income will vary from the model. Market risk of the trading books All trading portfolios are subject to market risk. Several major sources of market risk are interest rate, foreign exchange, equity price, commodity price, credit spread, volatility, and correlation risks. We define market risk as the risk that changes in financial market prices will decrease the value of our trading portfolios. The instruments in our trading portfolios are recognised at fair value and changes in market conditions directly affect net trading income. 161 Measurement and control ABN AMRO applies a Value-at-Risk (VaR) methodology to estimate the market risk of its trading portfolios. ABN AMRO uses VaR as its primary tool for the day-to-day monitoring of market risks. The Group Asset and Liability Committee sets limits on the maximum level of VaR at an aggregate level. The risk committees may set VaR limits on lower aggregation levels. Other control measures used in the market risk management process include historical and stress scenarios, limits on net open positions, interest rate sensitivity per basis point, spread sensitivities, option parameters, position concentrations, and position ageing. Value-at-Risk VaR is a methodology for assessing market risk exposure in a single number. VaR is a statistical measure that estimates potential losses and is defined as the predicted loss that might be caused by changes in risk factors under normal circumstances, over a specified period of time, and at a specified level of statistical confidence. ABN AMRO uses a proprietary VaR model that has been approved by the DNB. The VaR methodology adopted by ABN AMRO for its VaR calculation is historical simulation, using approximately 1.5 years of weighted (exponential decay method) historical data. The VaR is calculated at a 99% confidence level for a one-day holding period using absolute changes for interest rate-related and all implied volatility risk factors, and relative changes for other risk factors. The positions captured by our VaR calculations include derivative and cash positions that are reported as assets and liabilities held for trading. The VaR is reported daily per trading portfolio, per product line, and for ABN AMRO as a whole. It is reported daily to the senior management of the businesses, Group Risk Management, and the responsible members of the Managing Board. The table below provides the 2009 and 2008 Value at Risk per risk category (99% confidence level, one-day holding period): (in millions of euros) For the year ended 31 December 2009 For the year ended 31 December 2008 Minimum Maximum Average Year-end Minimum Maximum Average Year-end Interest rate risk 9.0 74.6 25.8 14.1 28.5 93.8 49.6 68.8 Equity price risk 2.6 21.0 11.2 12.0 12.6 79.9 29.7 19.4 Foreign exchange risk 0.4 16.4 5.1 1.7 2.7 19.6 8.5 13.9 Commodity price risk 0.3 2.5 0.8 0.6 0.4 12.7 2.2 2.0 Diversification effect - - - (14.3 ) - - - (33.4 ) Aggregate VaR (1) 7.0 70.7 24.4 14.1 30.7 113.5 57.4 70.7 (1) The maximum (and minimum) for each category occurred on different days and therefore have no direct relation to the maximum (and minimum) of the aggregate Value-at-Risk. The aggregate Value-at-Risk includes the diversification effect of imperfect or negative correlations between certain risk types. Therefore the aggregate Value-at-Risk can be lower than the sum of the individual risk types on the same day (e.g. year-end). Back testing is performed on the actual and hypothetical profit and loss and the results are reported to the DNB on a quarterly basis. At a 99% confidence level, the statistical expectation is that on one out of every 100 trading days a loss exceeding the VaR occurs. Back testing is an essential instrument for the ex post validation of our internal VaR model. Stress testing The limitations of the VaR model mean that it must be supplemented with other statistical tests. These include a series of stress tests, scenarios, and sensitivity stress tests that shed light on the hypothetical behaviour of our portfolio and the impact of extreme market movements on our financial results. Sensitivity stress tests and stress scenarios have been developed internally to reflect specific characteristics of ABN AMRO’s portfolios and are performed daily for each trading portfolio and at several aggregation levels. These apply parallel increases and decreases in a number of risk elements or in one risk element, actual historical scenarios (non-parallel moves in a number of risk elements) or plausible future shocks. Capital management ABN AMRO manages capital to comply with the rules on capital adequacy based on the Bank for International Settlements’ guidelines and Dutch Central Bank (‘DNB’) directives. These requirements compare ABN AMRO’s capital with its assets and off-balance sheet exposures, weighted according to the relative risk involved. Capital is also set aside for market risk associated with trading activities. The potential loss on derivatives, which is assessed as the fair value based on market conditions at balance 162 sheet date, is increased by a percentage of the relevant notional amounts, depending on the nature and remaining term of the contract. This method takes into account the possible adverse development of the fair value during the remaining term of the contract. The primary capital measure, referred to as ‘Tier 1 capital’ consists of shareholders’ equity (net of gains/losses not recognised in income) and qualifying subordinated liabilities less goodwill and capital deductions. Tier 2 capital represents additional qualifying subordinated liabilities, taking into account the remaining maturities. Core tier 1 capital is tier 1 capital excluding qualifying subordinated liabilities. Subsequent to its acquisition by RFS Holdings, ABN AMRO received approval for a transitional period from the DNB to report figures on the basis of Basel I until legal separation. In accordance with this, specific minimal requirements have been set for the tier 1 and total capital ratios, including a requirement to treat capital deductions in the same manner as required by Basel II. In this respect the minimum required ratios, as determined by the DNB, were increased in 2008 and remained unchanged for 2009. The minimum Tier 1 ratio required is 9% (2007: 4%) and the minimum total capital ratio is 12.5% (2007: 8%). ABN AMRO has exceeded these standards throughout the year including at balance sheet date with a Tier 1 ratio of 19.9% (2008: 10.9%), of which the core Tier 1 ratio is 16.9% (2008: 10.1%). The total capital ratio is 25.5% (2008: 14.4%) at 31 December 2009. The management of these ratios reflects a total capital base increase of 17.9% (2008: decreased by 25.1%) to EUR 29.9 billion at 31 December 2009 (2008: EUR 25.4 billion) and a Risk weighted assets reduction of EUR 58.5 billion to EUR 117.5 billion at 31 December 2009 (2008: 176.0 billion). Capital ratios are significantly higher than the current minima set by the DNB. This reflects remaining amounts to be repatriated to Santander, and the capital actions undertaken by RBS Group and the Dutch State to enable legal separation. The increase in capital is to ensure standalone compliance; and to meet expected requirements on the transition to Basel II in 2010, for the two separated banks. The following table analyses ABN AMRO’s capital ratios at 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 2007 Tier 1 capital 23,374 19,152 28,850 Tier 2 capital 6,575 5,981 4,816 Tier 3 capital - 272 272 Total capital base (including supervisory deductions) 29,949 25,405 33,938 Risk-weighted assets on balance 83,892 119,667 172,059 Off-balance 32,061 43,292 53,611 Market risks 1,582 13,069 6,642 Total risk-weighted assets 117,535 176,028 232,312 Tier 1 capital ratio 19.89 % 10.88 % 12.42 % Total capital ratio 25.48 % 14.43 % 14.61 % The following table analyses actual capital and the minimum standard needed in order to comply with supervisory requirements: 2009 2008 Required Actual Required Actual Total capital 14,692 29,949 22,004 25,405 Total capital ratio 12.50 % 25.48 % 12.50 % 14.43 % Tier 1 capital 10,578 23,374 15,843 19,152 Tier 1 capital ratio 9.00 % 19.89 % 9.00 % 10.88 % Core tier 1 n/a 19,845 n/a 17,778 Core tier 1 ratio n/a 16.88 % n/a 10.10 % As part of the management of capital, the ratios are hedged to mitigate the impact of any material changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate. 163 ABN AMRO’s investments in foreign operations in currencies other than the USD are hedged on a selective basis. Hedging is considered in cases where the expected currency loss is larger than the interest rate differential between the two currencies that represents the cost of the hedge. The table shows the sensitivity of our equity capital to a 10% appreciation and 10% depreciation, respectively, in the euro against all foreign currencies. (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 Euro appreciates 10% (259 ) 312 Euro depreciates 10% 259 (312 ) 39 Use of derivatives Derivative instruments ABN AMRO uses derivative instruments (a) to provide risk management solutions to its clients, (b) to manage ABN AMRO’s own exposure to various risks (including interest, currency and credit risks) and (c) for proprietary trading purposes. A derivative is a financial instrument that is settled at a future date and requires little or no initial net investment, and whose value varies in response to changes in the price of another financial instrument, an index or some other variable. The majority of derivative contracts are arranged as to amount (‘notional’), tenor and price directly with the counterparty (over-the-counter). The remainder are standardised in terms of their amounts and settlement dates and are bought and sold in organised markets (exchange traded). The notional, or contractual, amount of a derivative represents the reference quantity of the underlying financial instrument on which the derivative contract is based. The value of the derivative contract is typically determined by applying a calculated price to this notional amount, and is the basis upon which changes in the value of the contract are measured. The notional amount provides an indication of the underlying volume of business transacted by ABN AMRO but does not provide any measure of risk, and is not included on the balance sheet. Positive and negative fair values on different transactions are only netted if the transactions are with the same counterparty and the cash flows will be settled on a net basis, and ABN AMRO has the legal right to offset separate transactions with that counterparty. Types of derivative instruments The most common types of derivatives used are as follows: Forwards are binding contracts to buy or sell financial instruments, most typically currency, on a future date at a specified price. Forward contracts are tailor-made agreements that are transacted between counterparties in the over-the-counter (OTC) market. Futures are exchange traded agreements to buy or sell a standard quantity of specified grade or type of financial instrument, currency or commodity at a specified future date. Commodity derivatives are contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item. They can be either exchange traded or OTC. Swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange cash flows on a specified notional amount for a predetermined period. Most swaps are traded OTC. The major types of swap transactions undertaken by ABN AMRO are as follows: · Interest rate swap contracts – typically the contractual exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payments in a single currency, based on a notional amount and a reference interest rate, most commonly LIBOR. · Cross currency swaps – the exchange of interest payments based on two different currency principal balances and reference interest rates, and usually the exchange of principal amounts at the start and end of the contract. 164 · Credit default swaps (CDSs) – bilateral agreements under which one party (protection buyer) makes one or more payments to the other party (protection seller) in exchange for an undertaking by the seller to make a payment to the buyer following a specified credit event. Credit default swaps may be on a single name (counterparty) or on a multiple (or basket) of names (counterparties). Settlement following a credit event may be a net cash amount, or cash in return for physical delivery of one or more obligations of the credit entity and is made regardless of whether the protection buyer has actually suffered a loss. · Total rate of return swaps - these give the total return receiver exposure to all of the cash flows and economic benefits and risks of an underlying asset, without having to own the asset, in exchange for a series of payments, often based on a reference interest rate, such as LIBOR. The total return payer has an equal and opposite position. A specific type of total return swap is an equity swap. Options are contractual agreements under which, typically, the seller (writer) grants the purchaser the right, but not the obligation, either to buy (call option) or to sell (put option) by or at a set date, a specified quantity of a financial instrument or commodity at a predetermined price. The purchaser pays a premium to the seller for this right. Options may be traded OTC or on a regulated exchange, and may be traded in the form of a security (warrant). Derivatives transacted for trading purposes Most of the derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Trading activities are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from short-term fluctuations in price or margin, and include market-making, positioning and arbitrage activities: · Market making involves quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants with the intention of generating income based on spread and volume · Positioning means managing market risk positions with the expectation of profiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices · Arbitrage activities involve identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products. Derivatives transacted for hedging purposes ABN AMRO enters into derivative transactions for the purposes of hedging assets, liabilities, forecast transactions, cash flows and credit exposures. The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and whether the hedge qualifies for accounting purposes (see accounting policies). ABN AMRO also enters into derivative transactions which provide economic hedges for credit risk exposures but do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment, for example, ABN AMRO uses CDSs as economic hedges for credit risk exposures in the loan and traded product portfolios, but generally do not apply hedge accounting to such positions. Risks of derivative instruments Derivative instruments are transacted in many trading portfolios, which generally include several types of instruments, not just derivatives. The market risk of derivatives is managed and controlled as an integral part of the market risk of these portfolios. ABN AMRO’s approach to market risk is described in the market risk section. Derivative instruments are transacted with many different counterparties. The credit risk of derivatives is managed and controlled in the context of ABN AMRO’s overall credit exposure to each counterparty. ABN AMRO’s approach to credit risk is described in the financial credit risk section in note 38. It should be noted that although the values shown on the balance sheet can be an important component of ABN AMRO’s credit exposure, the positive fair values for any one counterparty are rarely an adequate reflection of ABN AMRO’s credit exposure on its derivatives business with that counterparty. This is because, on the one hand, fair values can increase over time (‘potential future exposure’), while on the other hand, exposure may be mitigated by entering into master netting agreements and bilateral collateral arrangements with counterparties. 165 40 Securitisations and other credit risk mitigants As part of ABN AMRO’s funding and credit risk mitigation activities, the cash flows of selected financial assets may be transferred to third parties for funding purposes. Substantially all financial assets included in these transactions are typically mortgage or other loan portfolios. The extent of ABN AMRO’s continuing involvement in these financial assets varies by transaction. Full recognition and continuing involvement ABN AMRO participates in sales transactions where financial assets and consequently the related cash flows are sold to a special purpose entity (‘SPE’). When in these transactions neither substantially all risks and rewards nor control over the financial assets has been transferred, the entire asset continues to be recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. In the case of sales transactions involving a consolidated SPE, the retained risks and rewards are usually an interest related spread and/or an exposure on first credit losses. The carrying amounts of the assets and associated liabilities approximated EUR 1,323 million, EUR 4,609 million, and EUR 5,437 million at 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the event of a credit downgrade ABN AMRO may be required to post additional collateral in respect of these transactions. Additionally, ABN AMRO participates in various mortgage related transactions in the Netherlands that have been conducted without the involvement of an SPE. In these transactions, the derecognition criteria are not met and the entire asset continues to be recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. ABN AMRO also retains exposure to certain interest rate risks. The carrying amounts of these mortgage assets and associated liabilities approximated EUR 146 million, EUR 151 million, and EUR 203 million at 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. ABN AMRO has not participated in any transaction where partial derecognition of specified portions of an entire financial asset have occurred. Synthetic transactions ABN AMRO has synthetic securitisations for an amount of EUR 119 billion (2008: EUR 111 billion). Through a synthetic securitisation ABN AMRO is able to buy obtain protection without the actual transfer of any assets to an SPE. As a result, ABN AMRO as the owner of the assets buys protection to transfer a part of the credit risk on a portfolio of assets to another entity that sells the protection. Although a substantial part of the credit risk related to these loan portfolios is transferred, actual ownership and continued recognition of the portfolio of assets remains with ABN AMRO. If an SPE is involved, the securities are issued by the SPE only, and the third party investors that hold the securities have only recourse to the assets of the SPE and not to ABN AMRO. The 31 December 2009 balance includes a EUR 34.4 billion transaction entered into in August 2009 with the Dutch State to reduce the credit risk, through a CDS, on the Netherlands mortgage portfolio. Credit default swaps and guarantees In addition to the transactions mentioned above, ABN AMRO also uses credit default swaps and guarantees to reduce credit risk for parts of the loan portfolio by selling these risks directly to the capital markets. At 31 December 2009 ABN AMRO has bought credit protection, in the form of CDSs, for an amount of EUR 10,973 million (2008: EUR 23,413 million) directly from the capital markets. In order to mitigate the income statement volatility associated with the fair value changes of these credit default swaps and in line with ABN AMRO’s risk appetite and hedging strategy, hedges of these credit default swaps are entered into that are based on credit risk indices. The correlation of these with the credit default swaps is monitored and the strategy is adapted where necessary. On 26 November 2009, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc ('RBS Group') and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc ('RBS plc') signed an accession agreement to the UK Government's Asset Protection Scheme ('APS'). This scheme also encompasses some assets within the RBS acquired businesses of ABN AMRO. For these assets ABN AMRO has purchased credit protection through a guarantee and a CDS 166 arrangement with RBS plc to strengthen the capital position and to de-risk future earnings. These arrangements relate to approximately EUR 30.0 billion of covered assets predominately commercial loan facilities. 41 Private equity investments Private equity investments are either consolidated or held at fair value through income. Consolidated private equity holdings Investments of a private equity nature that are controlled by ABN AMRO are consolidated. These holdings represent a wide range of non-banking activities. Personnel and other costs relating to production and manufacturing activities are presented within material expenses. The impact on the income statement of consolidating these investments is set out in the following table. 2009 2008 2007 Income of consolidated private equity holdings 436 1,726 3,836 Other income included in operating income (15 ) (45 ) (226 ) Total operating income of consolidated private equity holdings 421 1,681 3,610 Goods and material expenses of consolidated private equity holdings 228 1,278 2,744 Included in personnel expenses 107 176 390 Included in administrative costs 73 136 332 Included in depreciation and amortisation 14 45 168 Total operating expenses 422 1,635 3,634 Operating profit/(loss) before tax of consolidated private equity holdings (1 ) 46 (24 ) Goods and material expenses include personnel costs relating to manufacturing and production activities. The assets and liabilities of the consolidated holdings that are allocated to Central items are included in the balance sheet as assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale as ABN AMRO has a plan to sell these private equity investments. The total assets of these consolidated entities at 31 December 2009 were EUR 50 million (2008: EUR 435 million), excluding goodwill. Unconsolidated private equity investments The private equity investments over which ABN AMRO does not have control are accounted for at fair value with changes through income. Although control is not with ABN AMRO, in many cases ABN AMRO has significant influence, usually evidenced by an equity stake of between 20% and 50%. Significant influence is held in approximately 18 (2008: 29) investments with a positive material fair value. The total fair value of these investments is EUR 244 million at 31 December 2009 (2008: EUR 271 million), operating in various sectors including information technology, life sciences, media and telecommunications. 167 42 Joint ventures ABN AMRO’s activities conducted through joint ventures include cash transfer, insurance, finance, lease, global custody and equity capital market transactions. The consolidated financial statements of the joint ventures include the following assets and liabilities, income and expenses, represent ABN AMRO’s proportionate share: 2009 2008 Assets Financial assets held for trading - 203 Financial investments 2,731 1,946 Loans and receivables - banks and customers 76 34 Property and equipment 19 17 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 64 56 Other assets 2,107 2,391 Total 4,997 4,647 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading 3 4 Due to banks and customers 9 32 Issued debt securities 51 - Provisions 2,678 2,142 Other liabilities 2,117 2,391 Total 4,858 4,569 Total operating income 26 56 Operating expenses 18 30 Operating profit 8 26 Tax expense 3 9 Net profit 5 17 Most significant joint ventures: Interest held (%) Main activities Neuflize Vie 60 Insurance 168 43 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board Remuneration Managing Board The remuneration package, as it has been in place since 2001 for the ABN AMRO Managing Board, was only applicable to the Board members who were appointed before the takeover of ABN AMRO by the Consortium of RBS, Fortis and Santander. By the end of 2008 the last of these Managing Board members left ABN AMRO’s employment. The Managing Board in 2009 consists of members originating from ABN AMRO and from the Consortium Members, RBS Group and Santander. The remuneration for the Managing Board members from RBS Group and Santander is paid by the respective Consortium Members and is accordingly not included in the tables below. For the remaining members of the Managing Board who are employed by ABN AMRO two remuneration packages apply. For those Board members who are also designated board members of the future ABN AMRO Bank N.V. integrated with Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., the remuneration in 2009 is based on the remuneration package for the Chairman and members of the new ABN AMRO Bank as approved by the designate Supervisory Board and shareholder of the new ABN AMRO Bank. The package currently consists of a base salary of EUR 600,000 for the members and EUR 750,000 for the Chairman. A variable income component as well as various benefits will form part of this remuneration package. For those Board members who are not joining the Board of the combined bank their previous remuneration package as (Senior) Executive Vice President (‘(S)EVP‘ - member of the Top Executive Group of ABN AMRO) is continued during the Managing Board membership. This remuneration package consists of a fixed salary component of EUR 418,000 per year, short and long term variable income and benefits. The tables below summarise the salaries, other rewards and bonuses of individual ABN AMRO Managing Board members as they are employed by ABN AMRO and as far as these rewards are included in the income statement. The following table summarises total reward, ABN AMRO options and shares, and outstanding loans of the members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. (in thousands of euros) Managing Board Supervisory Board 2009 2008 2009 2008 Salaries and other short-term benefits 3,055 2,028 779 725 Pensions 411 353 - - Termination benefits 2,571 19,790 - - Profit-sharing and bonus payments 875 - - - Share-based payments 26 83 - - Loans (outstanding) 2,930 2,868 - - 169 The following table summarises the salaries, other rewards and bonuses of individual Managing Board members, as far as these rewards are included in the income statement. (in thousands of euros) 2009 2008 Base salary Other payments (1) Bonus Share based payments (2) Pension costs (3) Base salary Other payments (1) Bonus Share based payments (2) Pension costs (3) G. Zalm 750 - - - 204 - - - - - M.G.J. de Jong (4) 209 2,571 - 26 30 418 - - 83 54 R. Teerlink (5) - - - - - 171 - - - 25 D.A. Cole (6) 348 360 875 - 51 - - - - - J. van Hall (7) 500 63 - - 62 - - - - - C.F.H.H. Vogelzang (8) 500 325 - - 64 - - - - - W.G. Jiskoot (9) - - - - - 285 4,490 - - 90 J.Ch.L. Kuiper (10) - - - - - 114 - - - 52 H.G. Boumeester (11) - - - - - 114 3,800 - - 24 P.S. Overmars (12) - - - - - - 3,500 - - - J.P. Schmittmann (13) - - - - - 678 8,248 - - 108 (1) Other payments are comprised of termination payments, long term incentive payments, deferred cash payments and jubilee gratification. (2) Share-based payments are calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 by recognising the fair value of the originally equity settled shares or options at grant date over the vesting period. For originally cash-settled transactions these costs are measured at the fair value at settlement date. (3) Pension costs exclusively comprise pension service cost for the year computed on the basis of IAS 19. (4) M.G.J. de Jong joined the board on 1 January 2008. As at 28 February 2009 he became a member of the Managing Board on behalf of RBS Group and stepped down on 30 June 2009. Mr de Jong received a termination payment of EUR 2.5 million and currently is involved in a legal procedure claiming an additional termination payment of EUR 4 million. EUR 26 thousand share based payments in 2009 relates to the pro-rated award from RBS that was paid in cash upon the termination of employment. EUR 83 thousand in 2008 share based payment award relates to the RBS Group Restricted Share Plan. (5) R. Teerlink stepped down on 31 March 2008 and at the same date his employment with ABN AMRO was terminated. As at 28 February 2009 he became a member of the Managing Board on behalf of RBS Group. (6) D.A. Cole was appointed as Member of the Managing Board on 28 February 2009. Mr Cole’s remuneration is based on the ABN AMRO SEVP contract of employment. On the basis of a retention package agreed in 2007 Mr Cole received a guaranteed bonus of EUR 1,050 thousand with respect to the 2009 performance year. Mr Cole received a long term incentive plan entitlement of EUR 390 thousand in 2008, which was fully accrued in 2009 and is conditionally payable in 2010. The amounts of the bonus and LTIP have been pro-rated to reflect the appointment date. In 2009 Mr Cole also received a jubilee gratification of EUR 35 thousand. (7) J.van Hall was appointed as Member of the Managing Board on 28 February 2009. Mr Van Hall received a long term incentive plan entitlement of EUR 75 thousand in 2008, which was fully accrued in 2009 and is conditionally payable in 2010. The amount accrued in 2009 was pro-rated to reflect the appointment date. (8) C.F.H.H. Vogelzang was appointed as Member of the Managing Board on 28 February 2009. Mr Vogelzang received a long term incentive plan entitlement of EUR 390 thousand in 2008, which was fully accrued in 2009 and is conditionally payable in 2010. The amount accrued in 2009 was pro-rated to reflect the appointment date. (9) W.G. Jiskoot stepped down on 31 May 2008 and received a EUR 4.5 million termination payment (including pension costs). (10) J.Ch.L. Kuiper retired on 1 March 2008. (11) H.G. Boumeester stepped down on 29 February 2008 and received a EUR 3.8 million termination payment. (12) P.S. Overmars stepped down on 31 December 2007 and received a EUR 3.5 million termination payment. (13) J.P. Schmittmann stepped down on 30 December 2008 and received a EUR 8.0 million termination payment, EUR 192 thousand deferred cash award and EUR 56 thousand jubilee gratification. Loans from ABN AMRO to Managing Board members (in thousands of euros) 2009 2008 Outstanding at 31 December Interest rate (%) Outstanding at 31 December Interest rate (%) M.G.J. de Jong (1) - - 2,868 3.6 G. Zalm (2) - - - - D.A. Cole (3) 1,171 3.7 - - J. van Hall (4) 284 5.3 - - C.F.H.H. Vogelzang (5) 1,475 3.9 - - R. Teerlink (6) - - - - (1) M.G.J. de Jong was appointed on 1 January 2008 and stepped down on 30 June 2009. (2) G. Zalm was appointed on 1 January 2009. (3) D.A. Cole was appointed on 28 February 2009. (4) J. van Hall was appointed on 28 February 2009. (5) C.F.H.H. Vogelzang was appointed on 28 February 2009. (6) R. Teerlink stepped down during 2008 and joined ABN AMRO again as at February 2009 on behalf of RBS Group. 170 Remuneration Supervisory Board The table provides information on the remuneration of individual members of the Supervisory Board. As of 1 May 2006 the remuneration was adjusted. The members of the Supervisory Board receive an equal remuneration of EUR 60,000 per annum. For the Vice Chairman this remuneration is EUR 70,000 and for the Chairman EUR 85,000 per annum. For the membership of the Audit Committee an additional allowance of EUR 15,000 is applied on an annual basis. The annual allowance for the members of the Nomination & Compensation Committee and the Compliance Oversight Committee is EUR 10,000. The annual allowance for the Chairman of the Audit Committee is EUR 20,000 and for the Chairmen of the two other Committees EUR 15,000 per annum. The general expenses allowances were abolished and actual business expenses incurred can be declared and are eligible for reimbursement. Supervisory Board members that are not residents in the Netherlands are entitled to general allowances for each Supervisory Board meeting that they attend, namely EUR 7,500 for members who live outside Europe and EUR 5,000 for members who live in Europe. This allowance applies to meetings of both the Supervisory Board and the various committees and is paid only once when meetings are being held on the same day or on consecutive days and is only paid when the members physically attend the meetings. All amounts are based on a full year, but the actual payment depends on the period of membership during the year. Members of the Supervisory Board are not entitled to emoluments in the form of ABN AMRO shares or options on ABN AMRO shares. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board as far as chargeable to ABN AMRO (1) (in thousands of euros) 2009 2008 A.C. Martinez 125 125 A.A. Olijslager 90 90 Mrs. T.A. Maas-de Brouwer 85 85 R.F. van den Bergh (2) 35 70 A. Ruys (2) 35 70 G.J. Kramer 75 75 Mrs. Llopis Rivas 75 75 M. Enthoven (3) 95 7 (1) The remuneration is excluding an attendance fee. (2) Resigned on 25 June 2009 (3) Appointed on 21 November 2008. Loans from ABN AMRO to Supervisory Board members There a no loans from ABN AMRO to Supervisory Board members. 44 Share-based payment plans Before the acquisition of ABN AMRO by the consortium of RBS, Fortis and Santander ABN AMRO granted long-term share-based incentive awards to members of the Managing Board, other Top Executives and Key Staff under a number of plans. The plans for the Managing Board consisted of a Performance Share Plan (PSP) and a Share Investment & Matching Plan (SIMP). At a lower level, the PSP was also applicable to the second tier of Top Executives, the SEVPs. Both the SEVPs and the third level of Top Executives, the Corporate EVPs could defer a part of their bonus into the Bank’s shares on the basis of the SIMP. Furthermore, there was a Restricted Share Plan (RSP) applicable for the Corporate EVPs/MDs and Key Staff. Until 2007 all these plans were equity based but the awards took place in the form of phantom shares. The last awards under the PSP and RSP plans were granted in the 2007 performance year, and also the participation in the SIMP took place for the last time in 2007. Next to the above described plans there was also a cash-settled PSP for the Corporate EVPs for the performance cycle 2005-2008. With effect from 2005 share options were no longer granted via the Top Executives Plan and from 2006 share options were no longer granted to Key Staff. The options were replaced by restricted shares in line with the changes for the Top Executives in 2005. 171 All outstanding awards and options under the Bank’s LTIPs were cash settled on 17 October 2007 as a consequence of the take over of ABN AMRO. The total settlement amounted to EUR 1,013 million of which EUR 442 million related to share options, EUR 301 million to originally equity settled share plans and EUR 270 million to phantom shares. With respect to the calculation of the cash settlement amount, the value of an ABN AMRO share was the value of a tendered share on the settlement date, 17 October 2007. This value resulted in EUR 35.60 plus EUR 2.28 representing the value of 0,296 RBS share against the closing price of the RBS share on 17 October 2007. The value (further referred to as Settlement Price) per ABN AMRO Holding N.V. share (a ‘Share’) thus resulted in EUR 37.88. 172 45 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale The following tables provide a further analysis of the results reporting in the line Results from discontinued operations net of tax. Discontinued operations Profits from discontinued operations include the related operating results and when sold, the applicable gain on sale. Income statement of discontinued operations: 2009 2008 2007 Operating income 9 3,960 10,285 Operating expense 6 2,330 6,077 Loan impairment and other credit risk provisions - 902 1,513 Operating profit before tax 3 728 2,695 Gain on disposal 96 16,075 7,312 Profit before tax 99 16,803 10,007 Tax on operating profit - 314 930 Tax arising on disposal - - 56 Profit from discontinued operations net of tax 99 16,489 9,021 The tables below provide a further breakdown of the operating result and gain on disposal of discontinued operations in 2009 by major lines of business. 2009 2008 2007 Banca Antonveneta, Banco Real and other Santander acquired businesses (including Interbanca) Operating income 9 3,781 6,917 Operating expense 6 2,173 4,156 Loan impairment and other credit risk provisions - 902 1,444 Operating profit before tax 3 706 1,317 Gain on disposal 96 13,004 - Profit before tax 99 13,710 1,317 Tax on operating profit - 306 569 Profit from discontinued operations net of tax 99 13,404 748 2009 2008 2007 Asset Management Operating income - 179 891 Operating expense - 157 629 Operating profit before tax - 22 262 Gain on disposal - 3,073 - Profit before tax - 3,095 262 Tax on operating profit - 8 91 Profit from discontinued operations net of tax - 3,087 171 2009 2008 2007 ABN AMRO North America Holdings and ABN AMRO Mortgage Group Inc Operating income - - 2,477 Operating expense - - 1,344 Loan impairment and other credit risk provisions - - 69 Operating profit before tax - - 1,064 Gain / (loss) on disposal - (2 ) 7,312 Profit / (loss) from discontinued operations before tax - (2 ) 8,376 Tax on operating profit - - 270 Tax arising on disposal - - 56 Profit / (loss) from discontinued operations net of tax - (2 ) 8,050 173 2009 2008 2007 Bouwfonds non-mortgage business Operating income - - - Operating expense - - (52 ) Loan impairment and other credit risk provisions - - - Operating profit before tax - - 52 Gain on disposal - - - Profit from discontinued operations before tax - - 52 Tax on operating profit - - - Tax arising on disposal - - - Profit from discontinued operations net of tax - - 52 Businesses held for sale The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale as at 31 December are as follows: 2009 2008 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 146 37 Financial assets held for trading 494 - Financial investments 582 566 Loans and receivables-banks 84 79 Loans and receivables-customers 3,284 255 Property and equipment 55 72 Goodwill and other intangible assets 30 202 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 46 17 Other assets 168 355 Assets of businesses held for sale 4,889 1,583 Liabilities Financial assets held for trading 474 - Due to banks 66 8 Due to customers 7,823 378 Issued debt securities (12 ) 220 Provisions 286 12 Accrued expenses and deferred income 74 13 Other liabilities 177 233 Subordinated liabilities 6 - Liabilities of businesses held for sale 8,894 864 Net assets directly associated with disposal business (4,005 ) 719 Net assets directly associated with disposal businesses represent the balance of net assets and excludes intercompany balances. As at 31 December 2009 the assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale represent balances of a number of RBS acquired businesses in the Asian region, loan portfolios in the Latin American region and remaining Private Equity portfolios within the Central Items business segment. As at 31 December 2008 these balances mainly consisted of the Private Equity businesses and some smaller businesses acquired by Santander in Latin America. Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations: 2009 2008 2007 Net cash flows from operating activities (42 ) (2,547 ) 4,409 Net cash flows from investing activities - (2,446 ) (202 ) Net cash flows from financing activities - (416 ) (1,686 ) 174 46 Related parties ABN AMRO has a related party relationship with associates, joint ventures, key management and shareholders of its parent company, RFS Holdings. The shareholders of RFS Holdings are RBS Group, Santander and the Dutch State. The ultimate consolidating parent of ABN AMRO, RBS Group, is controlled by the UK Government. Both the UK Government and the Dutch State are therefore related parties. Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operational decisions. ABN AMRO enters into a number of banking transactions with related parties in the normal course of business. These transactions, which include loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions, have taken place on an arm’s length basis. These transactions are carried out on commercial terms and at market rates. Employees are offered preferential terms for certain banking products. No allowances for loan losses have been recognised in respect of loans to related parties in 2009 and 2008. Transactions conducted directly with the Dutch State and UK Government are limited to normal banking transactions, taxation and other administrative relationships with the exception of the mandatory convertible securities and guarantee of the Dutch State. In addition ABN AMRO participates in the Dutch State treasuries market and utilises the liquidity support made available to all banks regulated by the DNB. There may be other significant transactions with entities under the common control of or subject to significant influence by the UK Government. These would include, amongst others, loans, deposits, guarantees, fee based relationships, or equity holdings. Disclosure is made of any significant transactions with these entities. Balances with joint ventures and associates 2009 2008 Joint Ventures Associates Joint Ventures Associates Receivables 25 165 143 201 Liabilities 54 73 - 139 Guarantees given - 7 - 332 Irrevocable facilities - 22 - 8 Income received 28 70 40 68 Expenses paid 26 4 37 2 Total 133 341 220 750 Balances with Consortium Members 2009 2008 RBS Santander RBS Santander Financial assets held for trading 25,537 232 56,529 1,525 Loans and receivables 10,306 7,911 7,144 7,900 Other assets 3,049 - 211 - Financial liabilities held for trading 28,505 298 59,436 1,519 Due to banks 5,872 1 8,026 2 Other liabilities 4,502 - 838 - Guarantees given 108 - 23 - Irrevocable facilities 43 - - - Recoverable facilities - - - 10 Payment commitments - - 2,181 - Financial assets and liabilities positions held for trading with RBS include positions of which risks have been transferred to RBS in 2008. The assets and liabilities can not be offset under IFRS, however master netting agreements are in place that reduce the credit risk in the assets. As Fortis has left the Consortium, no balances have been included for 2009 and comparative balances have not been included to conform with current year presentation. 175 Refer to note 40: Securitisations and other credit risk mitigants for details on credit protection purchased from RBS plc in the form of a guarantee and a CDS. Balances with the Dutch State 2009 2008 Assets Balances at central banks 22,994 1,225 Financial assets held for trading 72 203 Financial investments – available-for-sale 6,800 3,866 Liabilities Deposits by banks 7,637 2,320 Subordinated liabilities (refer to note 30) 2,600 - Tax balances Current tax asset 351 394 Current tax liability 22 - Deferred tax asset 740 719 Deferred tax liability 6 - Tax on profit 63 (21 ) Receipts from tax authorities 61 42 Refer to note 40: Securitisations and other credit risk mitigants for details on credit protection purchased from the Dutch state in the form of a CDS. Balances with the UK Government and its related parties 2009 2008 Bank of England Banks Total Bank of England Banks Total Assets Balances at central banks 19 - 19 30 - 30 Debt securities - - - 20 11 31 Loans and advances to banks - - - - 30 30 Derivatives - - - - - 4 Liabilities Deposits by banks - - - - 30 30 Derivatives - 699 699 - - 3 UK central and local government 2009 2008 Debt securities 10 9 Tax balances Current tax asset 35 28 Current tax liability 10 - Deferred tax asset 4,181 3,320 Deferred tax liability 13 - Tax on profit (634 ) (2,892 ) Receipts from tax authorities - 5 The deferred tax asset predominantly relates to losses incurred on businesses which are in the process of transferring to RBS plc. RBS Group has agreed to reimburse ABN AMRO for the value of the losses attached to the transferring businesses. 176 47 Post balance sheet events On 5 February 2010 ABN AMRO made a distribution of EUR 7.5 billion of capital to the parent of ABN AMRO Holding, RFS Holdings B.V., for the benefit of Santander. The boards of ABN AMRO Holding have furthermore resolved to make a further distribution for an amount in the range of EUR 1.2 to 1.5 billion for the benefit of Santander, subject to Dutch Central Bank approval, immediately before legal separation. After such further distribution, the indirect interest of Santander in ABN AMRO will have decreased to its share in the remaining Shared Assets. On 6 February 2010 the ABN AMRO Group announced the legal renaming of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. to The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. On 8 February 2010 ABN AMRO announced that on 6 February 2010, the businesses of ABN AMRO acquired by the Dutch State were legally demerged from the RBS acquired businesses in accordance with the demerger filing as lodged with the Chamber of Commerce on 30 September 2009. As a result, there are now two separate banks within ABN AMRO Holding N.V., The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. ('RBS N.V.') and the new entity named ABN AMRO Bank N.V., each licensed separately by the Dutch Central Bank. Both banks are governed by the current managing and supervisory boards of ABN AMRO Holding N.V. until the legal separation of the new ABN AMRO Bank N.V. from ABN AMRO Holding N.V. On 11 March 2010 a request for a Declaration of Non-Objection (‘DNO’) on the separation of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. from ABN AMRO Holding NV by means of sale to ABN AMRO Group N.V. was submitted to the DNB. The sale is planned to be executed on 1 April 2010. On 4 January 2010 the RBS Group announced the lapse of sale of the sale of The Royal Bank of Scotland Limited (RBS Pakistan) to MCB Bank Limited (MCB). The RBS Group continues to pursue the sale of the Pakistan operations with other buyers. On 8 January 2010 the RBS Group and ABN Bank N.V. reached an agreement to sell to The Bank of America certain offshore loans, loan participations, credit facilities or other extensions of credit generated by or related to its operations in Argentina, Chile and Venezuela. A loss relating to this sale of EUR 179 million was recognized in the 2009 results. There have been no other significant events between the year end and the date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure in the accounts. 177 48 Major subsidiaries and participating interests Unless otherwise stated, ABN AMRO’s interest is 100% or almost 100%, on 17 March 2010. Those major subsidiaries and participating interests that are not 100% consolidated but are accounted for under the equity method (a) or proportionally consolidated (b) are indicated separately. For renamed entities, the entity names used are those applicable as at 26 March 2010. As at 31 December 2009, ABN AMRO Holding had two subsidiaries: ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and ABN AMRO II N.V. renamed ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on 6 February 2010. ABN AMRO II N.V. did not have any subsidiaries as at 31 December 2009. On 6 February 2010, the majority of the businesses acquired by the Dutch State were legally demerged from ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Effective at the same date, the existing legal entity, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. was renamed The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. and the legal entity into which the Dutch State acquired businesses were demerged was also renamed from ABN AMRO II N.V. to ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (the ‘new ABN AMRO Bank’). The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V., Amsterdam (formerly ABN AMRO Bank N.V.), Amsterdam Netherlands RBS Ventures II B.V., Amsterdam RBS Participaties B.V., Amsterdam Hollandsche Bank-Unie N.V., Rotterdam Europe (Outside the Netherlands) RBS Global Banking (Luxembourg) S.A., Luxembourg RBS Bank (Polska) S.A., Warsaw RBS Bank (Romania) S.A., Bucharest The Royal Bank of Scotland ZAO, Moscow RBS Corporate Finance Limited, London CM Capital Markets Holding S.A., Madrid (45.20%) (a) RBS Hoare Govett Limited, London North America RBS Capital Markets (Canada) Limited., Toronto The Royal Bank of Scotland Mexico S.A. Institucion de Banca Multiple, Mexico City RBS WCS Holding Company, New York RBS Capital (USA) LLC, Chicago South America The Royal Bank of Scotland (Chile), Santiago de Chile The Royal Bank of Scotland (Colombia) S.A., Bogota RBS Securities (Venezuela) C.A., Caracas RBS Finance (Chile) S.A., Santiago de Chile RBS Securitizadora S.A., Santiago de Chile Rest of the World RBS Asia Limited, Hong Kong RBS Asia Corporate Finance Ltd., Hong Kong The Royal Bank of Scotland Berhad, Kuala Lumpur ABN AMRO Bank (China) Co. Ltd., Shanghai ABN AMRO Leasing (China) Co. Ltd., Beijing JSC SB RBS (Kazakhstan) Ltd., Almaty (80%) Royal Bank of Scotland Uzbekistan MB, Tashkent (58.82%) The Royal Bank of Scotland Limited, Karachi (99.22%) RBS Business Services Private Limited, Mumbai RBS Financial Services (India) Private Limited, Mumbai The Royal Bank of Scotland Securities (Kazakhstan) JSC, Almaty 178 RBS Group (Australia) Pty Limited, Sydney RBS Asset Securitisation (Australia) Pty Limited, Sydney RBS Corporate Finance (Australia) Limited, Sydney RBS Nominees (Australia) Pty Limited., Sydney RBS Equities (Australia) Limited, Sydney RBS Equity Capital Markets (Australia) Limited, Sydney RBS Funds Management (Australia) Limited, Sydney RBS Group (New Zealand) Limited, Auckland RBS (New Zealand) Limited, Auckland Saudi Hollandi Bank, Riyadh (40%) (a) ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (formerly ABN AMRO II N.V.), Amsterdam Netherlands AA Interfinance B.V., Amsterdam ABN AMRO Arbo Services B.V., Amsterdam ABN AMRO Groenbank B.V., Amsterdam ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep B.V., Amersfoort ABN AMRO Jonge Bedrijven Fonds B.V., Amsterdam ABN AMRO Participaties Fund I B.V., Amsterdam Altajo B.V., Amsterdam (50%) (b) Amstel Lease Maatschappij N.V., Utrecht Delta Lloyd ABN AMRO Verzekeringen Holding B.V., Zwolle (49%) (a) IFN Group B.V., Rotterdam MoneYou B.V., Hoevelaken New HBU II N.V., Amstelveen Solveon Incasso B.V., Utrecht Stater N.V., Amersfoort Rest of the World ABN AMRO Bank (Luxembourg) S.A., Luxembourg ABN AMRO Bank (Switzerland) A.G., Zurich ABN AMRO Life Capital Belgium N.V., Brussels ABN AMRO Life S.A., Luxembourg Banque Neuflize OBC SA, Paris (99.86%) Delbrück Bethmann Maffei AG, Frankfurt am Main Neuflize Vie (60%), Paris The list of participating interests for which statements of liability have been issued, has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce in Amsterdam. The majority of the ABN AMRO’s subsidiaries and participating investments are regulated entities and therefore their ability to transfer funds to ABN AMRO is subject to regulatory approvals. 179 49 Supplemental condensed consolidating financial information ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ABN AMRO and is able to offer and sell certain securities in the US from time to time pursuant to a registration statement on Form F-3 filed with the SEC. ABN AMRO has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the obligations of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. that have been incurred: this guarantee includes all securities issued by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. utilises an exception in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X and therefore does not file its financial statements with the SEC. In accordance with the requirement to qualify for the exception, presented below is condensed consolidating financial information for (i) ABN AMRO Holding N.V., on a standalone basis as guarantor ('Holding Company'); (ii) ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on a standalone basis ('Bank Company'); (iii) other subsidiaries of ABN AMRO on a combined basis ('Subsidiaries'); (iv) consolidation adjustments ('Eliminate and reclassify'); and total consolidated amounts ('ABN AMRO consolidated'). The condensed consolidated financial information is prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB, where ABN AMRO has applied Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X which requires a company to account for its investments in subsidiaries using the equity method, differing from IAS 27 which requires ABN AMRO account for investments in their subsidiaries at cost subject to impairment. The following consolidating information presents condensed balance sheets at 31 December 2009 and 2008 and condensed statements of income and cash flows for the years ended 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007 of Holding Company, Bank Company and its subsidiaries. The condensed statement of financial position at 31 December 2009 and 2008 are presented in the following tables: Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of financial position as at 31 December 2009 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries (1) Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Cash and balances at central banks - 27,026 1,355 1 28,382 Financial assets held for trading - 74,495 4,206 (643 ) 78,058 Financial investments - 109,278 6,022 (40,403 ) 74,897 Loans and receivables-banks 6,600 142,272 139,926 (249,139 ) 39,659 Loans and receivables-customers - 143,613 90,778 (16,145 ) 218,246 Equity accounted investments(2) 12,320 8,316 576 (20,356 ) 856 Property and equipment - 1,187 773 1 1,961 Goodwill and other intangible assets - 300 345 - 645 Assets of businesses held for sale - 3,766 1,123 - 4,889 Accrued income and prepaid expenses - 4,580 1,291 - 5,871 Tax assets - 5,526 498 (2 ) 6,022 Other assets - 4,266 5,591 2 9,859 Total assets 18,920 524,625 252,484 (326,684 ) 469,345 Financial liabilities held for trading - 60,177 2,510 - 62,687 Due to banks 33 148,833 (130,829 ) (233,550 ) 46,145 Due to customers - 196,237 32,145 (31,734 ) 196,648 Issued debt securities - 72,817 63,888 (41,045 ) 95,660 Provisions - 1,275 3,516 (1 ) 4,790 Liabilities of businesses held for sale - 6,573 2,321 - 8,894 Accrued expenses and deferred income - 5,594 1,399 1 6,994 Tax liabilities 6 157 414 1 578 Other liabilities 1 8,424 5,066 (2 ) 13,489 Subordinated liabilities - 12,223 2,320 1 14,544 Shareholders equity attributable to the parent company 18,880 12,315 8,039 (20,354 ) 18,880 Non-controlling interests - - 37 (1 ) 36 Total liabilities and equity 18,920 524,625 252,484 (326,684 ) 469,345 (1) Includes ABN AMRO II N.V. (2) Includes participating interest in group companies which are eliminated. 180 Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of financial position as at 31 December 2008 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Cash and balances at central banks - 4,184 1,670 - 5,854 Financial assets held for trading - 208,132 5,199 (678 ) 212,653 Financial investments - 94,144 6,593 (33,676 ) 67,061 Loans and receivables-banks - 163,197 113,983 (201,614 ) 75,566 Loans and receivables-customers - 193,527 94,339 (17,359 ) 270,507 Equity accounted investments(1) 17,130 10,097 587 (27,018 ) 796 Property and equipment - 1,319 716 - 2,035 Goodwill and other intangible assets - 674 250 - 924 Assets of businesses held for sale - 418 1,165 - 1,583 Accrued income and prepaid expenses - 5,499 1,512 - 7,011 Tax assets - 4,653 447 - 5,100 Other assets - 11,498 6,229 - 17,727 Total assets 17,130 697,342 232,690 (280,345 ) 666,817 Financial liabilities held for trading - 189,886 2,201 - 192,087 Due to banks 8 154,423 111,344 (171,155 ) 94,620 Due to customers - 232,367 24,456 (47,819 ) 209,004 Issued debt securities - 74,674 70,976 (34,354 ) 111,296 Provisions - 1,113 3,031 - 4,144 Liabilities of businesses held for sale - 484 380 - 864 Accrued expenses and deferred income - 6,880 1,538 - 8,418 Tax liabilities 45 278 377 - 700 Other liabilities - 8,964 6,048 - 15,012 Subordinated liabilities - 11,147 2,402 - 13,549 Shareholders equity attributable to the parent company 17,077 17,130 9,887 (27,017 ) 17,077 Non-controlling interests - (4 ) 50 - 46 Total liabilities and equity 17,130 697,342 232,690 (280,345 ) 666,817 (1) Includes participating interest in group companies which are eliminated. The condensed income statements for 2009, 2008 and 2007 are presented in the following tables: Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of income 2009 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Net interest income 26 3,283 1,339 - 4,648 Results from consolidated subsidiaries (4,517 ) 250 - 4,267 - Net commissions - 1,233 988 - 2,221 Trading income - 1,146 416 - 1,562 Results from financial transactions - (1,932 ) (274 ) - (2,206 ) Other operating income - (168 ) 637 - 469 Total operating income (4,491 ) 3,812 3,106 4,267 6,694 Operating expenses 1 6,509 2,305 - 8,815 Provision loan losses - 2,355 438 - 2,793 Operating profit/(loss) before tax (4,492 ) (5,052 ) 363 4,267 (4,914 ) Taxes 6 (535 ) 114 - (415 ) Discontinued operations 99 3 3 (6 ) 99 Profit/(loss) for the year (4,399 ) (4,514 ) 252 4,261 (4,400 ) Non-controlling interests - - (1 ) - (1 ) Net profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders of the parent company (4,399 ) (4,514 ) 253 4,261 (4,399 ) 181 Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of income 2008 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Net interest income 178 4,382 1,223 - 5,783 Results from consolidated subsidiaries (13,041 ) (509 ) - 13,550 - Net commissions - 1,546 1,083 - 2,629 Trading income - (9,765 ) 441 - (9,324 ) Results from financial transactions - (565 ) (1,119 ) - (1,684 ) Other operating income - 170 1,968 - 2,138 Total operating income (12,863 ) (4,741 ) 3,596 13,550 (458 ) Operating expenses 1 7,888 3,740 - 11,629 Provision loan losses - 3,169 218 - 3,387 Operating profit/(loss) before tax (12,864 ) (15,798 ) (362 ) 13,550 (15,474 ) Taxes 45 (2,757 ) 132 - (2,580 ) Discontinued operations 16,489 6,940 319 (7,259 ) 16,489 Profit/(loss) for the year 3,580 (6,101 ) (175 ) 6,291 3,595 Non-controlling interests - - 15 - 15 Net profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders of the parent company 3,580 (6,101 ) (190 ) 6,291 3,580 Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of income 2007 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Net interest income 26 3,545 1,024 – 4,595 Results from consolidated subsidiaries 818 2,151 – (2,969 ) – Net commissions – 2,454 1,398 – 3,852 Trading income – 717 402 – 1,119 Results from financial transactions – 446 688 – 1,134 Other operating income – 293 5,005 – 5,298 Total operating income 844 9,606 8,517 (2,969 ) 15,998 Operating expenses 2 8,805 5,978 – 14,785 Provision loan losses – 632 85 – 717 Operating profit before tax 842 169 2,454 (2,969 ) 496 Taxes 15 (649 ) 176 – (458 ) Discontinued operations 9,021 9,021 1,812 (10,833 ) 9,021 Profit for the year 9,848 9,839 4,090 (13,802 ) 9,975 Non-controlling interests – – 127 – 127 Net profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 9,848 9,839 3,963 (13,802 ) 9,848 182 The condensed consolidating statement of cash flows 2009, 2008 and 2007 are presented in the following tables: Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of cash flows 2009 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Total net cash flows from operating activities (20 ) 58,096 (11,783 ) (1,034 ) 45,259 Net outflow of investment/sale of securities investment portfolios - (8,527 ) 611 - (7,916 ) Net outflow of investment/sale of participating interests - 22 6 - 28 Net outflow of investment/sale of property and equipment - (99 ) (115 ) - (214 ) Net outflow of investment of intangibles - (133 ) (27 ) - (160 ) Net cash flows from investing activities - (8,737 ) 475 - (8,262 ) Net increase (decrease) of subordinated liabilities - 220 833 - 1,053 Net increase (decrease) of long-term funding - (15,496 ) 5,477 - (10,019 ) Net increase (decrease) of (treasury) shares - - - - - Other changes in equity 6,600 - 6 - 6,606 Cash dividends paid - - (1,034 ) 1,034 - Net cash flows from financing activities 6,600 (15,276 ) 5,282 1,034 (2,360 ) Currency translation differences on cash and cash equivalents - (368 ) (46 ) - (414 ) Cash flows 6,580 33,715 (6,072 ) - 34,223 Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of cash flows 2008 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Total net cash flows from operating activities 16,403 (12,469 ) (39,722 ) (1,627 ) (37,415 ) Net outflow of investment/sale of securities investment portfolios - 9,178 9,101 - 18,279 Net outflow of investment/sale of participating interests - 3 23,859 - 23,862 Net outflow of investment/sale of property and equipment - (116 ) (226 ) - (342 ) Net outflow of investment of intangibles - (201 ) (78 ) - (279 ) Net cash flows from investing activities - 8,864 32,656 - 41,520 Net increase (decrease) of subordinated liabilities - (881 ) 471 - (410 ) Net increase (decrease) of long-term funding - (19,706 ) 1,335 - (18,371 ) Net increase (decrease) of (treasury) shares 3,708 - - - 3,708 Other changes in equity - - 7 - 7 Cash dividends paid (19,213 ) - (1,627 ) 1,627 (19,213 ) Net cash flows from financing activities (15,505 ) (20,587 ) 186 1,627 (34,279 ) Currency translation differences on cash and cash equivalents - 3,855 120 - 3,975 Cash flows 898 (20,337 ) (6,760 ) - (26,199 ) 183 Supplemental condensed consolidating statement of cash flows 2007 Holding company Bank company Subsidiaries Eliminate and reclassify ABN AMRO consolidated Total net cash flows from operating activities 113 9,541 (13,928 ) (609 ) (4,883 ) Net outflow of investment/sale of securities investment portfolios – 148 (4,106 ) – (3,958 ) Net outflow of investment/sale of participating interests – (27 ) 15,262 – 15,235 Net outflow of investment/sale of property and equipment – (114 ) (100 ) – (214 ) Net outflow of investment of intangibles – (280 ) (245 ) – (525 ) Net cash flows from investing activities – (273 ) 10,811 – 10,538 Net increase (decrease) of subordinated liabilities – (668 ) 966 – 298 Net increase (decrease) of long-term funding – (2,988 ) 9,339 – 6,351 Net increase (decrease) of (treasury) shares (1,223 ) – – – (1,223 ) Other changes in equity (743 ) – (980 ) – (1,723 ) Cash dividends paid (1,540 ) – (609 ) 609 (1,540 ) Net cash flows from financing activities (3,506 ) (3,656 ) 8,716 609 2,163 Currency translation differences on cash and cash equivalents – (75 ) 137 – 62 Cash flows (3,393 ) 5,537 5,736 – 7,880 Other information The parent company financial statements are included in this condensed consolidating footnote. The number of ordinary shares in issuance at 31 December 2009 was 3,306,843,332 (2008: 3,306,843,332 and 2007: 1,936,847,516). The total number of authorised ordinary shares amounts to 8,400,000,400. Proposed profit appropriation of ABN AMRO Holding, pursuant to article 37.2 and 37.3 of the articles of association, is as follows: (in millions of euros) 2009 2008 2007 (Release from) / addition to reserves (4,399 ) (15,633 ) 8,777 Dividends on ordinary shares - 19,213 1,071 (4,399 ) 3,580 9,848 Dividends on preference shares - - 36 184 [Page 185 intentionally left blank] 185 [Page 186 intentionally left blank] 186 [Page 187 intentionally left blank] 187 Guarantees ABN AMRO Holding N.V. guarantees all liabilities of The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. At legal separation the guarantee for ABN AMRO Bank N.V. will be revoked and any remaining liabilties demerged. Amsterdam, 26 March 2010 Supervisory Board Managing Board Arthur Martinez Gerrit Zalm André Olijslager Ron Teerlink Trude Maas-de Brouwer David Cole Gert-Jan Kramer Johan van Hall Ana Maria Llopis Rivas Chris Vogelzang Juan Rodriguez Inciarte Donald Workman Michael Enthoven Javier Maldonado Miller McLean Jeroen Kremers Brian Stevenson 188 SEC Form 20-F Cross Reference SEC Form 20-F cross reference and other information. New disclosure for the combined report AR-20-F. Form 20-F – Item number Page reference in this document Form 20-F – Item number Page reference in this document 1 Identity of Directors, Senior 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Management and Advisers NA disclosures about market risk 44 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable NA 12 Description of securities other than 3 Key information equity securities NA Selected financial data 12 13 Defaults, dividend, arrearages and Capitalisation and indebtedness NA delinquencies NA Reason for the offer and use of proceeds NA 14 Material modifications to the rights of Risk factors 61 security holders and use of proceeds NA 