RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood of Adverse Impact to the Company’s Profitability. Jet fuel costs are subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict, including increases in demand, sudden disruptions in supply and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. For example, although they declined in the 2010 fiscal year, oil prices increased substantially in fiscal years 2008 and 2009, peaking in July 2008. These increases had a significant impact on Ryanair’s costs, and in turn, on its financial results—contributing to the net loss recorded in the 2009 fiscal year, which reflected, among other things, a 59% increase in fuel costs between fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair’s fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates, or the unavailability of adequate supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions or the suspension of production by any significant producer, may adversely affect Ryanair’s profitability. In the event of a fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, additional increases in fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services could result. Ryanair has historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering periods of up to 18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements. Ryanair (like many other airlines) has, in more recent periods, entered into hedging arrangements on a more selective basis. As of July 19, 2010, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2011 at prices equivalent to approximately $730 per metric ton. In addition, as of July 19, 2010, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for the period from April 2011 to September 2011 at prices equivalent to approximately $755 per metric ton. Because of the limited nature of its hedging program, the Company is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, especially in light of the recent volatility. Any new increase in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro could have an adverse effect on the cost of buying fuel in euro. As of July 19, 2010, Ryanair had hedged 88% of its forecasted fuel-related dollar purchases against the euro at a rate of $1.38 per euro for the period to 30 June 2011, without, however, having entered into material hedging arrangements thereafter. See “—The Company May Not Be Successful in Raising Fares to Offset Increased Business Costs” below. No assurances whatsoever can be given about trends in fuel prices, and average fuel prices for the 2011 fiscal year or for future years may be significantly higher than current prices. Management estimates that every $1.00 movement in the price of a metric ton of jet fuel will impact Ryanair’s net income by approximately €2.1 million, taking into account Ryanair’s hedging program for the 2011 fiscal year. There can be no assurance, however, in this regard, and the impact of fuel prices on Ryanair’s operating results may be more pronounced. There also cannot be any assurance that Ryanair’s current or any future arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from increases in the price of fuel or that Ryanair will not incur losses due to high fuel prices alone or in combination with other factors. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Fuel Price Exposure and Hedging.” Because of Ryanair’s low fares and its no-fuel-surcharges policy, as well as the Company’s expansion plans, which will tend to have a negative impact on yields, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is somewhat limited. Moreover, the anticipated expansion of Ryanair’s fleet will result in an increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair’s aggregate fuel costs. Based upon Ryanair’s fuel consumption for the 2010 fiscal year, a change of $1.00 in the average annual price per metric ton of jet fuel would have caused a change of approximately €0.9 million in the Company’s annual fuel costs. Ryanair’s fuel costs in the 2010 fiscal year, after giving effect to the Company’s fuel hedging activities, decreased by 29% from the comparable period ended March 31, 2009, to €893.9 million, primarily due to the significant decrease in the cost of jet fuel. Ryanair estimates that its fuel costs would have been approximately €916.6 million in the 2010 fiscal year, as compared to €1,154.5 million in the 2009 fiscal year, had Ryanair not had any fuel hedging arrangements in place in either fiscal year. Ryanair Has Decided to Freeze its Development in the U.K. Market and Curtail Certain U.K. Operations. Ryanair informed its U.K.-based pilots on June 16, 2009 that it had completed a review of its U.K. growth plans. The review was prompted by the recessionary environment in the U.K. and the impact it had had on Ryanair’s business, coupled with the negative impact of the U.K.’s then £10 Air Passenger Duty (“APD”), described in 6 Table of Contents more detail below. As a secondary issue, Ryanair also noted that the campaign conducted by the British Airline Pilots Association (“BALPA”) for union recognition had made Ryanair’s position in the U.K. more uncertain. See “—Risks Related to the Airline Industry—The Airline Industry Is Particularly Sensitive to Changes in Economic Conditions; A Continued Recessionary Environment Would Negatively Impact Ryanair’s Result of Operations” below. As a result of the review, Ryanair announced its decision to temporarily freeze overall growth at its existing U.K. bases from June 16, 2009 onwards. However, the Company may selectively increase capacity at some U.K. airports where opportunities arise such as its launch of a new base at Leeds Bradford. Any changes in the announced policy will be dependent upon the recovery of the U.K. economy, the status of the U.K.’s APD tourist tax and any other relevant factors (such as airport growth incentives). Furthermore, Ryanair announced on July 21, 2009 that, as a result of the U.K. government’s £10 APD tourist tax (as well as the then scheduled increase in APD from £10 to £11, which occurred in November 2009) and the high costs of operating at its London (Stansted) base, it would implement a 40% reduction in capacity at such base between October 2009 and March 2010. In particular, the Company announced its intention to reduce its London (Stansted)-based aircraft from the then current 40 to 24 during the aforementioned period, and also reduce by 30% the number of weekly Ryanair flights to and from the airport. The Company announced at that time that it expected these cuts to result in 2.5 million fewer passenger trips during the period. In addition, on June 29, 2010, due to the continuance of the U.K. government’s £11 APD tourist tax and high charges at London (Stansted) airport, the Company announced that capacity at London (Stansted) airport would be reduced from winter 2010 by 17% and the number of aircraft based at London (Stansted) would be reduced from 24 to 22. Ryanair also noted that, as a result of other capacity reductions at its U.K. bases except for the bases at Edinburgh and Leeds Bradford, its total U.K. capacity would fall by 16% in the period from November 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011. The decision to freeze the Company’s development in the U.K. and reduce flights to and from London (Stansted) has presented some risks. In the past, the Company’s growth has been largely dependent on flights to or from the U.K. Such flights represented 24.1% of total flights in the 2010 fiscal year. A weak U.K. economy, along with the Company’s decision to freeze growth at its U.K. bases (with the exception of launching a base at Leeds Bradford), and reduce its London (Stansted) flights, may affect the overall growth of the Company. In addition, the abovementioned measures affecting U.K.-based pilots may affect the Company’s labor relations. Such risks could lead to negative effects on the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company May Not Be Successful in Reducing Business Costs to Offset Reduced Fares. Ryanair operates a low-fares airline. The success of its business model depends on its ability to control costs so as to deliver low fares while at the same time earning a profit. The Company has limited control over its fuel costs and already has comparatively low other operating costs. In periods of high fuel costs, if the Company is unable to further reduce its other operating costs, operating profits are likely to fall. The Company cannot offer any assurances regarding its future profitability. See “—The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment” below and “—Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood that the Company May Incur Additional Losses” above. The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Alleging State Aid at Certain Airports. In December 2002, the European Commission announced the launch of an investigation into the 2001 agreement between Ryanair and Brussels (Charleroi) airport and the airport’s owner, the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium. The agreement enabled the Company to launch new routes and base up to four aircraft at Brussels (Charleroi). In February 2004, the European Commission found that a portion of the arrangements between Ryanair, the airport, and the region constituted illegal state aid, and therefore ordered Ryanair to repay the amount of the benefit received in connection with those arrangements. In May 2004, Ryanair appealed the decision of the European Commission to the European Court of First Instance (“CFI”), requesting that the decision be annulled. The CFI heard Ryanair’s appeal in March 2008. In December 2008, the CFI annulled the European Commission’s decision and Ryanair was repaid the €4 million that the Commission had claimed was illegal state aid. Subsequently, the Walloon Region withdrew a separate action for €2.3 million against the Company. Between July 2007 and March 2008, the European Commission launched formal investigations into Ryanair’s agreements with the Lübeck, Schönefeld, Tampere, Alghero, Pau, Aarhus and Bratislava airports. These investigations are ongoing, with the exception of the Bratislava airport case, which concluded in January 2010 with a finding that the agreement was in full compliance with state-aid rules. 7 Table of Contents On June 17, 2008, the European Commission launched a further investigation into Ryanair’s agreements at Frankfurt (Hahn) airport, which is a significant base for Ryanair. The European Commission announced in a public statement that its initial investigation had found that the airport might have acted like a private market investor but that it had insufficient evidence to reach a conclusion and therefore had elected to open a formal investigation. The formal investigation is ongoing. Ryanair believes that the positive decision by the CFI in the Charleroi case has caused the Commission to rethink its policy in this area. However, adverse rulings in the Frankfurt (Hahn) or similar cases could be used as precedents by competitors to challenge Ryanair’s agreements with other publicly owned airports and could cause Ryanair to strongly reconsider its growth strategy in relation to public or state-owned airports across Europe. This could in turn lead to a scaling-back of Ryanair’s overall growth strategy due to the smaller number of privately owned airports available for development. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of legal proceedings, nor as to whether any unfavorable outcomes may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the results of operation or financial condition of the Company. For additional information, please see “Item 8. Financial Information—Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment. Ryanair operates in a highly competitive marketplace, with a number of low-fare, traditional and charter airlines competing throughout the route network. Airlines compete primarily with respect to fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, name recognition, passenger amenities (such as access to frequent flyer programs), and the availability and convenience of other passenger services. Unlike Ryanair, certain of Ryanair’s competitors are state-owned or state-controlled flag carriers and in some cases may have greater name recognition and resources and may have received, or may receive in the future, significant amounts of subsidies and other state aid from their respective governments. In addition, the EU-U.S. Open Skies Agreement, which was signed in April 2007 and entered into effect in March 2008, allows U.S. carriers to offer services in the intra-EU market, which should eventually result in increased competition. See “