ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the risk factors described below. The risk factors have been separated into five groups: • risks that relate to our capital stock and the securities markets generally; • risks that relate to our businesses generally; • risks that relate to the Homebuilding Business; • risks that relate to the Real Estate Services Business; and • risks related to the proposed spin-off. If any of the events described below were to occur, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In any such case, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in us. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock and the Securities Markets Generally The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile. A variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: • our financial condition, results of operations and prospects; • the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in our industry and competitors; • any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, issuances in connection with business acquisitions and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; • general market and economic conditions; and • realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. In addition, The NASDAQ Global Select Market can experience significant price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Shares of common stock eligible for public sale could adversely affect the market price our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or other issuances of a large number of shares in the market or market perception that these transactions could occur, including sales or distributions of shares by one or more of our large or controlling stockholders. Based on holdings of Tarragon common stock as of January 15, 2007, Mr. and Mrs. William S. Friedman and their family partnership and our other directors and executive officers beneficially own 52.4 % of the outstanding shares of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents We have a substantial number of stock options, stock appreciation rights, grants of restricted stock, and notes convertible into our common stock and may have the ability to grant a substantial number of stock options in the future under currently effective or proposed incentive plans. As of January 15, 2007, under our existing equity plans, various persons, including our directors and executive officers, held (1) options to purchase 2,773,829 shares of our common stock, of which 450,831 options were unvested, (2) outstanding stock appreciation rights covering an additional 280,832 shares of our common stock, of which 133,425 rights were unvested, and (3) outstanding unvested restricted stock grants of 213,563 shares of our common stock. Additionally, our senior convertible notes are convertible into 469,771 shares of our common stock. The exercise of outstanding options or stock appreciation rights, the future issuance of restricted stock, options or stock appreciation rights (or the exercise of these options or stock appreciation rights), or the conversion of the convertible notes would dilute the ownership of the holders of our common stock. Our governing documents contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of the company by merger, tender offer, proxy contest or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our board of directors. As a result, a transaction that otherwise might appear to be in the best interests of our stockholders could be discouraged, delayed or prevented altogether, and our stockholders may be deprived of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares over prevailing market prices. The provisions contained in our articles of incorporation include: • the requirement of a supermajority vote to make, adopt, alter, amend, change or repeal our bylaws or certain key provisions of the articles of incorporation that embody, among other things, the aforementioned anti-takeover provisions; • the requirement of a supermajority vote for the removal of a director from our board of directors and certain extraordinary transactions; and • the inability of stockholders to call a meeting of stockholders. As of January 15, 2007, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 52.4% of our outstanding common stock. In the light of these shareholdings, these anti-takeover provisions could help entrench our board of directors and may effectively give our management the power to block any attempted change in control, a power that they presently have by virtue of their shareholdings in Tarragon. Risks Related to Our Businesses Generally Our substantial indebtedness and high leverage could materially and adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have substantial indebtedness and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2006: • our total consolidated indebtedness was $1.5 billion; and • our total indebtedness in unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures was $144.3 million. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; 14 Table of Contents • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired in the future; • certain of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which expose us to the risk of increased interest rates; and • it may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing economic or market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions. Our secured credit facilities and the other agreements governing our indebtedness limit, but do not prohibit, us or our subsidiaries from incurring significant additional indebtedness in the future. Therefore, these risks may increase if we incur additional indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fulfill our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, political, business and other factors. We believe that cash generated by our businesses will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. However, if we do not generate sufficient cash flow or future borrowings are not available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may not be able to fulfill our debt service obligations. The restrictive covenants associated with our outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to operate. Our existing indebtedness contains various covenants that may limit or restrict the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the creation of liens, mergers, consolidations, dispositions of assets, dividends, redemptions of capital stock, changes in our business or accounting practices, transactions with affiliates and certain other transactions or business activities. In addition, a number of our debt agreements contain covenants that require us to maintain financial ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we may be in default, and existing indebtedness could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. Our net income may fluctuate. Our revenue may fluctuate as a result of the timing of the completion of projects and unit closings, seasonality of housing demand, the timing and seasonality of construction activity, the condition of the real estate market and the economy in general, material and labor costs and the availability and cost of mortgage financing. Increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense or could reduce our revenues. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $879.5 million of variable rate debt. On that date, our unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had an additional $137.7 million of variable rate debt. We may incur additional variable rate indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, many purchasers of our condominiums obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates, housing costs and unemployment and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing. This general tendency is intensified by the fact that prospective buyers of our homes may be required to sell a home prior to purchasing one of our homes, and buyers for those homes will often require mortgage financing. In addition, there have been discussions of possible changes in the federal income tax laws that would remove or limit the deduction for home mortgage interest. Because of the long-term nature of most development projects and condominium 15 Table of Contents conversions, it may be difficult for us to adjust our business strategy quickly to compensate for changes in effective mortgage interest rates or tax laws. If effective mortgage interest rates increase, or there is an adverse change in the tax laws, and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected, our results of operations may also be adversely affected. The regional concentration of our assets may increase the effects of adverse trends in those markets. A substantial number of our assets are located in the Northeast, Florida, Tennessee and Texas. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of these specific markets, including business layoffs and downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations or closings of businesses, geopolitical factors, changing demographics or oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate, may impair: • our sales prices at homebuilding projects in those markets; • occupancy levels and rental rates in our rental real estate portfolio; • our ability to attract new tenants and to collect rent from existing tenants; • revenues from our property management and condominium services businesses; and • our results of operations and cash flows. Our success depends on key executive officers and personnel. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in developing residential and commercial properties. In particular, we depend on the services of William S. Friedman, our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer, and Robert P. Rothenberg, a director and our president and chief executive officer. The loss of the services of either of these executives or other key personnel, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in real estate values may require us to write down the book value of our real estate assets. Under GAAP, we are required to assess the impairment of our long-lived assets and our homebuilding inventory whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to minimum future results of operations, significant change in the manner of use of the asset, significant technological or industry changes or changes in the strategy for our overall business. When we determine that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets is impaired, an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the asset over its estimated fair value is recognized. These impairment charges would be recorded as operating losses. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Any material write-downs of assets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and earnings. Our principal stockholders effectively control corporate actions, and their interests may differ from yours. William S. Friedman, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, his spouse, Lucy N. Friedman, and their family partnership, beneficially own 43.2% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. and Mrs. Friedman are effectively in a position to elect the members of our board of directors and have substantial influence over our management and affairs. In addition, they effectively have veto power over a broad range of corporate actions requiring more than a simple majority vote presently contained in our articles of incorporation, including, without limitation, mergers, business combinations, change-in-control transactions, substantial asset sales and other similar and extraordinary corporate transactions that can affect the value of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Our businesses are subject to all of the risks that affect real estate businesses generally. General factors that may materially and adversely affect us include: • a decline in the economic conditions in one or more of our primary markets; • an increase in competition for, or a decrease in demand by, homebuyers and tenants in our primary markets; • an increase in interest rates; • the adoption on the local, state or national level of more restrictive laws and governmental regulations, including more restrictive zoning, land use or environmental regulations and increased real estate taxes; • increased restrictions on the availability of credit; • possible losses from fire, flood, hurricane or other catastrophe; and • terrorist activities or other acts of violence or war in the United States, the continuation or escalation of world geopolitical tensions or the occurrence of such activities or acts that may impact our properties or the general economy. Property ownership through partnerships and joint ventures generally limits control of those investments and entails other risks. We hold properties in a number of consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures in which outside partners may have significant decision-making authority and voting rights. Partnerships and joint ventures involve risks not otherwise present when such properties are held wholly and directly by us. Our partners might become bankrupt or might have or develop different interests or goals, or might take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or investment objectives. Another risk of ownership through a partnership investment is the possibility of an impasse on decisions, such as a sale or refinancing, or disputes with partners over the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale or refinancing. In addition, joint venture and partnership agreements typically contain provisions restricting the ability of partners to transfer interests in the joint venture or partnership and may contain “buy-sell” provisions, which, under certain circumstances, permit a partner to initiate an offer to buy the other partner’s interests or to sell its interests to the other partner, at the other partner’s option. Buy-sell provisions may result in us buying or selling interests in a project at a different time or at a different valuation than we otherwise would have chosen, and we may not have sufficient available funds to make a purchase pursuant to these provisions. There is no limitation under our organizational documents or loan agreements as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures. Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverage may affect our results of operations and increase our potential exposure to liability. In recent years, the cost of insurance has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased and the availability of insurance has diminished. In addition, there are some risks of loss for we may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes and other geologic events may not be economically insurable, and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism or from the presence of mold in rental properties or for-sale homes, may not be economically insurable. Significant increases in our cost of insurance coverage, significant limitations on coverage or a material uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We have in the past, and will continue to, engage in transactions with related parties, which may cause a conflict of interest and negatively affect our business. We have in the past, and will continue to, engage in transactions with related parties. These related-party transactions include ongoing financial arrangements with several members of our board and senior management, including a $30 million unsecured loan extended to us by affiliates of Mr. and Mrs. Friedman which was approved by our board of directors. We believe that these related-party transactions are advantageous to us and in our best interest. However, there may be instances when the interests of these related parties are inconsistent with or adverse to our interests and our stockholders, and as a result, these transactions may cause a conflict of interest. Any conflict of interest, or appearance of a conflict of interest, could negatively affect investor interest in us and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Homebuilding Business Our Homebuilding Business is subject to risks associated with construction and development. Construction and development activities entail a number of risks, including the following: • we may abandon a project after spending funds and devoting management resources in determining its feasibility or obtaining regulatory clearance, and these costs cannot be recovered; • local community or political groups may oppose development or construction at a particular site resulting in delays or abandonment of a project; • we may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy or other required governmental permits and authorizations; • we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms, if at all; • construction costs may materially exceed our original estimates; • We may encounter shortages of lumber or other construction materials, shortages of labor, labor disputes, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, work stoppages or natural disasters, which could delay construction and result in substantial cost overruns; • We may not complete construction on schedule; and • buyers may be unable to close purchases as agreed. The occurrence of any one or more of these events could result in lower than expected returns or cash flows from communities under development, and we could lose some or all of our investment in those properties, which could materially and adversely affect our growth, business and results of operations. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete for, among other things, desirable properties, financing, raw materials, skilled labor and purchasers. We compete both with large homebuilding companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do, and with smaller local developers and builders. We also compete with individual resales of existing homes and with available rental housing. We compete with all of these homebuilders primarily on the basis of location, price, design, quality, service and reputation. The consolidation of homebuilding companies may increase the financial, marketing and sales resources of our competitors such that they are able to compete more effectively against us. In addition, there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently conduct business. 18 Table of Contents Future cash flows from our Homebuilding Business may be lower than expected. We use the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition to report revenue and profit from high- and mid-rise residential projects. Under this method of accounting, we may recognize revenue from sales of homes before those sales have closed. Due to various contingencies, including delayed construction, cost overruns or buyer defaults, it is possible that we may receive less cash than the amount of revenue already recognized or the cash may be received at a later date than we expected, which could affect out profitability and ability to pay our debts. Governmental laws and regulations may increase our expenses, limit the number of homes that we can build or delay completion of our projects. The Homebuilding Business is subject to numerous local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development, building design, construction and similar matters that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Projects that are not entitled may be subjected to periodic delays, changes in use, less intensive development or elimination of development in certain specific areas due to government regulations. We may also be subject to delays or may be precluded entirely from developing in certain communities due to building moratoriums or “slow-growth” or “no-growth” initiatives that could be implemented in the future in the states in which we operate. Local and state governments also have broad discretion regarding the imposition of development fees for projects in their jurisdiction. Projects for which we have received land use and development entitlements or approvals may still require a variety of other governmental approvals and permits during the development process and can also be impacted adversely by unforeseen health, safety and welfare issues, which can further delay these projects or prevent their development. As a result, our sales could decline and our costs could increase, which could negatively affect our Homebuilding Business’ results of operations. Our sales activities may expose us to risks generally associated with homebuilding. The Homebuilding Business’ entails risks in addition to those associated with development and construction activities, including: • market conditions in our target markets may change due to competitive, economic, demographic or other factors, most of which are outside of our control, that may affect demand for homes; • we may not be able to achieve desired sales levels at out homebuilding projects; • we may be exposed to additional credit risk with respect to the individuals to whom we sells homes; • customers may be dissatisfied with the homes we build, which may result in remediation costs or warranty expenses; • we may be left with unsold inventory, which may result in additional losses due to write downs in inventory, additional costs associated with carrying inventory or sales of units for a significantly lower price than projected; and • the long lead-time of homebuilding projects may result in delayed revenue recognition and difficulty in predicting whether there will be sufficient demand for our homes. 19 Table of Contents We may acquire additional rental properties for conversion to condominiums, which could expose us to additional risks. Acquisitions of rental properties for conversion to condominiums involve several risks, including: • acquired properties may not perform as well as we expected or ever become profitable; • necessary improvements to acquired properties may ultimately cost significantly more than we had estimated; • unsold inventory may result in additional write downs, additional costs associated with carrying inventory, costs and inefficiencies associated with conversion of unsold inventory into rental units or sales of units for a significantly lower price than projected; • the costs of evaluating properties that are not acquired cannot be recovered; • condominium conversions require substantial legal and other costs, which may not be recovered; and • liabilities to condominium purchasers for warranty claims and latent defects may result in claims in excess of estimates and available insurance. If one or more property acquisitions are unsuccessful due to these or other reasons, it may have a material adverse effect on the Homebuilding Business and its results of operations. We may expand our homebuilding operations to new markets. We may make investments outside of our existing markets if appropriate opportunities arise. Impediments to success in new markets include: • an inability to evaluate accurately local market conditions and local demand trends; • an inability to obtain land for development or appropriate acquisition opportunities; • an inability to hire and retain key local personnel; and • a lack of familiarity with local and regional regulatory processes and governmental authorities. Failed projects resulting from expanding into new markets may have a material adverse effect on the Homebuilding Business and its results of operations. Historical experience in existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets. Our Homebuilding Business may require significant additional financing that may not be available on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our Homebuilding Business depends primarily on debt financing to fund growth opportunities that may be available to us. In addition, we rely in part on cash flows from operations or equity financings to meet additional funding requirements. We use a substantial portion of this financing for: • new construction and development; • property acquisitions; and • working capital. We cannot predict whether additional sources of financing will be available in the future or the cost of this financing. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on lenders’ willingness to lend and on conditions in the capital markets, and we may not be able to secure additional sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A failure to obtain needed additional financing could have a material adverse effect 20 Table of Contents on management’s ability to grow the Homebuilding Business and its results of operations and may force it to curtail its development activities or dispose of properties. Our Homebuilding Business is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and our properties may have environmental or other contamination. Our Homebuilding Business is subject to various federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of public health and the environment. These laws may impose liability on property owners for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on real property, without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, such substances may materially and adversely affect the value of a property, as well as our ability to sell the property or individual condominium units, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Environmental claims will generally not be covered by our insurance programs. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site’s location, its environmental condition and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could materially and adversely affect our Homebuilding Business’ results of operations. Risks Related to the Real Estate Services Business Our Real Estate Services Business may require significant additional financing that may not be available on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our Real Estate Services Business depends primarily on non-recourse debt financing to fund growth opportunities that may be available to us. In addition, we may rely in part on cash flows from operations or equity financings to meet additional funding requirements. We intend to use a substantial portion of this financing for business acquisitions and working capital. We cannot predict whether additional sources of financing will be available in the future or the cost of this financing. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on lenders’ willingness to lend and on conditions in the capital markets, and we may not be able to secure additional sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A failure to obtain needed additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow the Real Estate Services Business and its results of operations and may force us to dispose of properties. Our Real Estate Services Business’ growth strategy is dependent on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate suitable acquisition candidates into the Real Estate Services Business. Our Real Estate Services Business’ ability to execute our growth strategy for the Real Estate Services Business depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that we will finalize and close any transactions or be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if such candidates are identified, to negotiate their acquisition at prices or on favorable terms and conditions. Our failure to implement this acquisition strategy successfully could limit the potential growth of our Real Estate Services Business. We compete for acquisition candidates with other entities, some of which have greater financial resources. Increased competition for acquisition candidates may result in fewer acquisition opportunities being available to us, as well as less attractive acquisition terms, including increased purchase prices. These circumstances may increase acquisition costs to levels that are beyond our financial capability or pricing parameters, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to sell our apartment communities at the desired time or price. Because of the lack of liquidity of real estate investments generally, our ability to respond to changing circumstances may be impaired. Real estate assets generally cannot be sold quickly. We cannot predict whether there will be a market for our real estate assets, or whether we will be able to sell them at a price equal to our estimates of their value or at a price that will allow us to fully recoup our investment. We may not be able to realize the full potential value of our real estate assets, and in some cases we will incur costs related to the early pay-off of the debt secured by such assets. Our Real Estate Services Business is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and our properties may have environmental or other contamination. Our Real Estate Services Business is subject to various federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of public health and the environment. These laws may impose liability on property owners or operators for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on real property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, such substances may materially and adversely affect the value of a property, as well as our ability to sell the property, lease apartments or borrow funds using that property as collateral. Environmental claims are generally not covered by our insurance programs. The laws, ordinances, rules and regulations governing the removal, encapsulation and disturbance of asbestos containing materials, or ACMs, may impose liability on owners or operators for the release of ACMs when such materials are disturbed in connection with the renovation of an existing building or apartment community. The Real Estate Services Business has programs in place to maintain and monitor ACMs in the properties where ACMs are present. However, in 2006, pursuant to an agreement with the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, Tarragon Management, Inc., or TMI, entered into a plea of guilty with respect to one felony count for failure to comply with the Clean Air Act Work Practice Standards for Asbestos in connection with the renovation of an apartment community undergoing conversion to condominiums. TMI agreed to pay a $1 million fine and received a five-year probation period. It also agreed to institute a comprehensive environmental compliance program, under the supervision of the court and the EPA. In recent years, there has been a widely publicized proliferation of mold-related claims by tenants, employees and other building occupants. When we identify any measurable presence of mold, whether or not a claim is made, we undertake remediation we believe to be appropriate for the circumstances encountered. There is little in the way of government standards, insurance industry specifications or other generally accepted guidelines dealing with mold propagation. Although considerable research into mold toxicity and exposure levels is underway, there are currently no definitive standards available to property owners against which to evaluate risk and design remediation practices. Risks Related to the Proposed Spin-off The proposed spin-off of our Homebuilding Business is subject to inherent risks, which may affect our results of operations or financial condition. The proposed spin-off of our Homebuilding Business, as described under “Item 1 — Business”, is subject to inherent risks, including: • the diversion of the attention of management and other key personnel; • the proposed spin-off may not be consummated; 22 Table of Contents • significant transaction costs; • changes in our credit rating may occur as a result of the proposed spin-off; and • the results of operations of our business may change. There can be no assurance that the proposed spin-off of our Homebuilding Business will achieve our goals of providing both the Homebuilding Business and Real Estate Services Business with direct and differentiated access to financing and the capital markets, allowing each business to grow through acquisitions appropriate to its business and prospects and providing each business with the opportunity to align management incentives with the performance of its business. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the proposed spin-off will be beneficial to the business or financial condition of either the Homebuilding Business or the Real Estate Services Business. Even if the proposed spin-off is beneficial, we may fail to properly implement the proposed spin-off, which may adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of each business. In connection with the proposed spin-off, we may also incur special charges, such as inventory, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, workforce reduction costs or pension and equity-award costs. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, it will be difficult to accurately forecast our future revenues and other results of operations based on our historical financial statements, which could result in lower prices for our common stock following the proposed spin-off. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, we will operate the Real Estate Services Business, while Tarragon Homes Corporation currently our subsidiary, will operate the Homebuilding Business as a separate publicly traded company. We have historically been able to rely on the results of operations, assets and cash flows of the Homebuilding Business. Because the historical financial information contained in this annual report does not reflect changes that are expected to occur as a result of the proposed spin-off and contains assumptions about our expenses that may change in the future, this financial information with respect to the Real Estate Services Business does not necessarily reflect the financial condition and results of operations that would have been achieved had we only operated the Real Estate Services Business during the periods presented and are not necessarily indicative of what our future financial condition and results of operations will be following the proposed spin-off. This will make it difficult or impossible for analysts or investors to accurately forecast our future revenues and other results of operations, which could result in lower prices for our common stock following the proposed spin-off. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, we may not enjoy all of the benefits of scale that we currently enjoy with our businesses held in one corporate structure. Currently, our businesses share benefits of scope and scale in costs, human capital, vendor relationships and customer relationships. While we expect to enter into agreements with Tarragon Homes that will govern a number of our commercial and other relationships following the proposed spin-off, those arrangements will not fully capture the benefits that we currently enjoy as a result of common ownership of our businesses. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, the loss of these benefits as a consequence of the proposed spin-off could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations following the proposed spin-off. There are tax risks relating to the proposed spin-off, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and cause our stockholders to incur tax liabilities. We intend to obtain an opinion from our tax counsel that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the proposed spin-off will be tax-free to us and our stockholders under Sections 361 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. 23 Table of Contents The opinion will be based on certain representations that have been made by us. The opinion may not be relied upon if those representations are incorrect or incomplete in any material respect. If the proposed spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off, then, in general, we would be subject to a federal corporate tax, the amount of which would be substantial. This corporate tax would be based on the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Tarragon Homes common stock at the time of the proposed spin-off over our tax basis in the Tarragon Homes common stock. This tax, if incurred, could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the proposed spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment for the stockholders, each stockholder who receives Tarragon Homes common stock in the proposed spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Tarragon Homes common stock received. That distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Even if the proposed spin-off otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 361 and 355 of the Code, the proposed spin-off may become taxable to us under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of Tarragon Homes stock or our stock then-outstanding, measured by vote or value, is acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the proposed spin-off. For this purpose, acquisitions (including acquisitions that are neither planned nor accepted or recommended by the management of the company whose stock is acquired) of Tarragon Homes stock or our stock within two years preceding or following the proposed spin-off are presumed to be part of that plan or series, although we may be able to rebut that presumption. If an acquisition of Tarragon Homes stock or our stock triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, we would recognize taxable gain to the extent that the fair market value of Tarragon Homes stock at the time of the proposed spin-off exceeded Tarragon’s U.S. tax basis in that stock. We may be liable for all or a portion of these taxes. First, in connection with the proposed spin-off, we will enter into a tax matters agreement with Tarragon Homes. This agreement will generally allocate between the companies the taxes and liabilities relating to a failure of the proposed spin-off to be tax-free. Second, aside from the tax matters agreement, under U.S. federal income tax laws, we and Tarragon Homes would be severally liable for our U.S. federal income taxes resulting from the proposed spin-off being taxable. This means that even if Tarragon Homes indemnifies us for a part of the tax liability, we may still be held liable for the whole amount if Tarragon Homes fails to fund its share of the entire tax liability. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, we will continue to rely on the performance of our Homebuilding Business under various agreements between us and Tarragon Homes. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, we will enter into various agreements, including a distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and a transition services agreement, with Tarragon Homes. The distribution agreement will set forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations to us following the proposed spin-off and will include indemnification obligations relating to this allocation. In addition, pursuant to the tax matters agreement, we will assume certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities will be allocated between, and indemnification obligations will be assumed by, each of us and Tarragon Homes. The transition services agreement and employee matters agreement will address the provision of services by us to Tarragon Homes and by Tarragon Homes to us following the proposed spin-off. We will rely on Tarragon Homes to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by Tarragon Homes will be our legal or contractual liabilities. If Tarragon Homes were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. 24 Table of Contents If the proposed spin-off is consummated, Tarragon Homes may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations related to the proposed spin-off, or we may be required to indemnify Tarragon Homes, either of which could result in us incurring additional costs and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The distribution agreement and other agreements related to the proposed spin-off that will be entered into between us and Tarragon Homes will allocate responsibility between us and Tarragon Homes for various debts, liabilities and obligations. The distribution agreement will provide that Tarragon Homes will indemnify us for the liabilities assumed by Tarragon Homes under these agreements (including specified liabilities related to the Homebuilding Business that will be our contingent liabilities by virtue of the structure of the proposed spin-off), and we will indemnify Tarragon Homes for the liabilities of the Real Estate Services Business. However, the availability of any indemnities will depend upon the future financial strength of Tarragon Homes. We cannot determine whether we would have to indemnify Tarragon Homes for any substantial obligations after the proposed spin-off. In addition, no assurance can be given that Tarragon Homes will be in a financial position to fund its indemnity obligations. If we are required to indemnify Tarragon Homes or are forced to pay costs that otherwise should have been covered by the indemnity obligation of Tarragon Homes, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, certain members of our management and our directors and our stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, certain members of our management and our directors will own both our common stock and Tarragon Homes common stock and will be directors of both us and Tarragon Homes. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our and Tarragon Homes’ management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for us and Tarragon Homes. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and Tarragon Homes regarding the terms of the agreements governing the proposed spin-off and the relationship between us and Tarragon Homes following the proposed spin-off. These agreements include, among others, the distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement, the transition services agreement and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and Tarragon Homes enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, we will be a smaller, less diversified company than we currently are. If consummated, the proposed spin-off will separate our businesses into two separate businesses. We will retain and operate only the Real Estate Services Business. As a result, we will be a smaller, less diversified company than we currently are with a narrower business focus than we currently have. We will have a more limited business and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, the market price of our common stock may experience fluctuations and volatility following the proposed spin-off. Because of the significant changes that will take place as a result of the proposed spin-off, the trading market for our common stock following the proposed spin-off may be significantly different from that of our common stock currently. For example, the market may view us as a “new” company following the proposed spin-off. We currently do not have significant securities analyst coverage, and we may not attract any securities analyst coverage following the proposed spin-off. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade following the proposed spin-off. Until an orderly trading market for our common stock develops following the 25 Table of Contents proposed spin-off, the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. There can be no assurance that an orderly trading market will develop for our common stock following the proposed spin-off. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, there may be substantial changes in our stockholder base, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate following the proposed spin-off. Investors holding our common stock may hold our common stock because of a decision to invest in a company that operates in multiple markets within the real estate industry. If the proposed spin-off is consummated, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a smaller company with its business concentrated in the Real Estate Services Business. These changes may not match some holders’ investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease following the proposed spin-off. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents 