Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers should carefully consider the following factors that may affect our business, future operating results and financial condition, as well as other information included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have incurred and may continue to incur losses. With the exception of 2002, we have incurred net losses for most fiscal periods since our inception. From inception through December 31, 2008, we have generated $39,913,664 in revenues and accumulated deficit (including preferred stock dividends and returns) in the amount of $94,719,673. The negative cash flow we have sustained has materially reduced our working capital, which in turn, could materially and negatively impact our ability to fund future operations and continue to operate as a going concern. Management has and continues to take actions to improve our results. The availability of necessary working capital, however, is subject to many factors beyond our control, including, our ability to obtain favorable financing, economic cycles, market acceptance of our products, competitors’ responses to our products, the intensity of competition in our markets, the l evel of demand for our products, etc. We may need additional financing to continue operations. Because we may continue to experience negative cash flow, we may need to obtain additional financing to continue operations. Management has and continues to take actions to improve our results and credit performance to enhance our ability to continue to finance debt. However, obtaining additional financing is subject to many factors beyond our control and may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Operational hazards could result in the spread of contamination within our facility and require additional funding to correct. An irrevocable, automatic renewable letter of credit against a certificate of deposit at Texas State Bank has been used to provide the financial assurance required by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for our Idaho facility license. If a contamination event resulted in greater liability to us, we would have to borrow money or fund the liability from our future revenue. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that products supplied by us fail to perform as expected or such failure results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, and possible adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation by raising questions about our products' safety and efficacy, and could interfere with our efforts to market our products. A successful product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or established reserves may have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts we believe are commercially reasonable, any product liability we incur may exceed our insurance coverage. 10 We are dependent upon key personnel, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer. Our ongoing operations are dependent on Steve T. Laflin, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Laflin could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a $2 million dollar key man life insurance policy on Mr. Laflin and an employment agreement that extends through February 2010. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain Mr. Laflin or our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees. The loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to attract additional qualified employees could result in a significant decline in revenue. We are dependent on various third parties in connection with our business operations. The production of HSA Cobalt is dependent upon the Department of Energy, and its prime-operating contractor, which controls the Idaho reactor. Our gemstone production is tied to an exclusive agreement with Quali Tech Inc. Continued gemstone irradiation services are dependent upon the continuation of that agreement. Nuclear medicine calibration and reference standard manufacturing is conducted under an exclusive contract with RadQual, LLC, which in turn has agreements in place with several companies for marketing and sales. Termination of the RadQual agreement would directly impact the Company’s ability to manufacture items in this business segment. We are subject to competition from other companies. Each of our business areas has direct competition from other businesses. HSA cobalt is supplied by other reactor facilities around the world. Nuclear medicine calibration and reference standards are being produced by several other manufacturers in the U.S. and overseas, and there is at least one other gemstone processor in Europe. Most of our radiochemicals are also manufactured by several other companies in the world, and there are other suppliers of high purity fluorine products. Many of these products are supplied through a single source of supply, therefore, continuing sales of some products depends upon those uninterrupted supplies. Each of our competitors has significantly greater financial resources that could give them competitive advantage over us. General economic conditions in markets in which we do business can impact the demand for our goods and services. Decreased demand for our products and services can have a negative impact on our financial performance and cash flow. Demand for our products and services, in part, depends on the general economic conditions affecting the countries and industries in which we do business. A downturn in economic conditions in a country or industry that we serve may negatively impact demand for our products and services, and in turn negatively impact our operations and financial results. Further, changes in demand for our products and services can magnify the impact of economic cycles on our businesses. Unanticipated contract terminations by current customers or suppliers can negatively impact operations, financial results, and cash flow. Volatility in raw material and energy costs, interruption in ordinary sources of supply and an inability to recover unanticipated increases in energy and raw material costs from customers could result in lost sales or significantly increase the cost of doing business. Market and economic conditions affecting the costs of raw materials, utilities, energy costs, and infrastructure required to provide for the delivery of those goods and services, are beyond our control and any disruption or halt in supplies, or rapid escalations in costs could affect our ability to manufacture products or to competitively price our products in the marketplace. 11 We are subject to extensive government regulation in jurisdictions around the globe in which we do business. Regulations address, among other things, environmental compliance, import/export restrictions, healthcare services, taxes and financial reporting, and can significantly increase the cost of doing business, which in turn can negatively impact our operations, financial results and cash flow. We are subject to extensive government regulation and intervention both in the United States and in all foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and operating costs and changes to current regulations with which we comply can necessitate further capital expenditures and increases in operating costs to enable continued compliance. Additionally, from time to time, we are involved in proceedings under certain of these laws and regulations. Foreign operation s are subject to political instabilities, restrictions on funds transfers, import/export restrictions and currency fluctuation. Significant areas of regulation and intervention include the following: Environmental and Health Compliance. We are committed to conducting our activities so that there is no or only minimal damage to the environment; there is no assurance, however, that our activities will not at times result in liability under environmental and health regulations. Costs and expenses resulting from such liability may materially negatively impact our operations and financial condition. Overall, environmental and health laws and regulations will continue to affect our businesses worldwide. Import/Export Regulation. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight of our import and export operations due to the nature of our product offerings. Penalties for non-compliance can be significant and violation can result in adverse publicity for the Company. Financial Accounting Standards. Our financial results can be impacted by new or modified financial accounting standards. Other Regulations. Our operations are subject to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Food and Drug Administration, Department of Transportation, and Department of Homeland Security regulations. To the extent these regulations are or become burdensome, our business development could be adversely affected. Our earnings, cash flow, and financial position are exposed to financial market risks worldwide, including interest rates. Fluctuations in domestic and world markets could adversely affect interest rates and impact our ability to obtain credit or attract investors. Catastrophic events such as natural disasters, pandemics, war and acts of terrorism, could disrupt our business or the business of our suppliers or customers, any of which disruptions could have a negative impact on our operations, financial results and cash flow. Our operations are at all times subject to the occurrence of catastrophic events outside our control, ranging from severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and storms, to health epidemics and pandemics, to acts of war and terrorism. Any such event could cause a serious business disruption that could affect our ability to produce and distribute our products and possibly expose us to third-party liability claims. Additionally, such events could impact our suppliers, in which event energy and raw materials may be unavailable to us, and our customers, who may be unable to purchase or accept our products and services. Any such occurrence could have a negativ e impact on our operations and financial condition. Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) produce high purity fluoride gasses on a commercial scale utilizing the FEP process in connection with uranium de-conversion services, (ii) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (iii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iv) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and (v) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively. 12 We have not yet performed large commercial scale fluoride gas production utilizing FEP. We have successfully demonstrated the feasibility of using the FEP process to produce germanium tetrafluoride and others have used FEP to produce boron trifluoride and silicon tetrafluoride. However, the FEP process has not been used for large scale commercial production and there may be technical issues and process challenges related to the utilization of FEP for commercial production. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We own or are licensed under a large number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. In some non-U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed conflict involving the United States or any other country in which we hold interests, may adversely affect our business activities and financial condition. In addition, nuclear facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks. Costs associated with insurance and other security measures may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Trading in our common stock is limited and the price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility. Our common stock has historically traded on the OTC Bulletin Board®, or the OTCBB, under the ticker symbol “INIS.OB.” The market for our securities is limited, the price of our stock is volatile, and the risk to investors in our common stock is greater than the risk associated with stock trading on other markets. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of their shares. This could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, the price of our common stock may be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · our ability to successfully conceive and to develop new products and services to enhance the performance characteristics and methods of manufacture of existing products; · our ability to retain existing customers and customers' continued demand for our products and services; · the timing of our research and development expenditures and of new product introductions; · the timing and level of acceptance of new products or enhanced versions of our existing products; and · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance. 13 We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, which will dilute your interest in us. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately 18,780,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $0.09 per share. An additional 18,404,000 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of December 31, 2008. Also outstanding as of December 31, 2008 are Series E warrants for the issuance of an additional 13,333,331 shares of common stock and Series F warrants for the issuance of 8,200,000 shares of common stock. Moreover, we expect to issue additional options to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors, and may issue additional shares to raise capital to fund design, licensing and construction of a uranium de-conversion plant. Any such issuances will have the effect of further diluting the interest of the holders of our securities. 