RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Availability Affect the Company’s Results. Jet fuel costs are subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict, including increases in demand, sudden disruptions in supply and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. While oil prices increased substantially in fiscal years 2012, 2013 and 2014, they reduced significantly in the second half of fiscal 2015 and currently remain at these lower levels. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair’s fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates, or the unavailability of adequate fuel supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from international terrorism, prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions or the suspension of production by any significant producer, may adversely affect Ryanair’s profitability. In the event of a fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, additional increases in fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services could result. Ryanair has historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering periods of up to 18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements. As of July 24, 2015, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 at prices equivalent to approximately $910 per metric ton. In addition, as of July 24, 2015, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 70% of its estimated requirements for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 at prices equivalent to approximately $657 per metric ton. Ryanair is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, and movements in the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate because of the limited nature of its hedging program, especially in light of the recent volatility in the relevant currency and commodity markets. Any further movements in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on Ryanair’s financial performance. In addition, any further strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro could have an adverse effect on the cost of buying fuel in euro. As of July 24, 2015, Ryanair had hedged approximately 90% of its forecasted fuel-related dollar purchases against the euro at a rate of approximately $1.33 per euro for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016 and approximately 90% of its forecasted fuel related dollar purchases against the euro at a rate of approximately $1.19 per euro for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017. No assurances whatsoever can be given about trends in fuel prices, and average fuel prices for future years may be significantly higher than current prices. Management estimates that every $10 movement in the price of a metric ton of jet fuel will impact Ryanair’s costs by approximately €2.5 million, taking into account Ryanair’s hedging program for the 2016 fiscal year. There can be no assurance, however, in this regard, and the impact of fuel prices on Ryanair’s operating results may be more or less pronounced. There also cannot be any assurance that Ryanair’s current or any future arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from increases in the price of fuel or that Ryanair will not incur losses due to high fuel prices, either alone or in combination with other factors. Because of Ryanair’s low fares and its no-fuel-surcharges policy, as well as Ryanair’s expansion plans, which could have a negative impact on yields, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is somewhat limited. Moreover, the expansion of Ryanair’s fleet from September 2014 onwards has resulted and will likely continue to result in an increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair’s aggregate fuel costs. Ryanair Has Seasonally Grounded Aircraft. In recent years, in response to high fuel prices, typically lower winter traffic and yields and higher airport charges and/or taxes, Ryanair has adopted a policy of grounding a certain portion of its fleet during the winter months (from November to March). In the winter of fiscal year 2015, Ryanair grounded approximately 50 aircraft (down from 70 in fiscal year 2014) and the Company intends to again ground approximately 50 aircraft in fiscal 2016. Ryanair’s policy of seasonally grounding aircraft presents some risks. While Ryanair seeks to implement its seasonal grounding policy in a way that will allow it to reduce losses by operating flights during periods of high oil prices to high cost airports at low winter yields, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful. 7 Table of Contents Additionally, Ryanair’s growth has been largely dependent on increasing summer capacity, and decreasing winter capacity, which may affect the overall future growth of Ryanair. Furthermore, while seasonal grounding does reduce Ryanair’s variable operating costs, it does not avoid fixed costs such as aircraft ownership costs, and it also decreases Ryanair’s potential to earn ancillary revenues. Decreasing the number and frequency of flights may also negatively affect Ryanair’s labor relations, including its ability to attract flight personnel only interested in year round employment. Such risks could lead to negative effects on Ryanair’s financial condition and/or results of operations. Ryanair May Not Achieve All of the Expected Benefits of its Recent Strategic Initiatives. Ryanair is in the process of implementing a series of strategic initiatives that are expected to have a significant impact on its business. Among other things, these initiatives include scheduling more flights to primary airports, selling flights via corporate travel agents on global distribution systems (“GDS”), a higher marketing spend, and adjusting the airline’s yield management strategy with the goal of increasing load factors. In fiscal years 2014 and 2015, Ryanair announced a series of customer-experience related initiatives under its “Always Getting Better” customer experience program, including a new easier-to-navigate website with a fare finder facility, a mobile app, reduced penalty fees, more customer-friendly baggage allowances, 24 hour grace periods to correct minor booking errors, the introduction of allocated seating for all passengers and family, business traveler and group booking facilities. For additional information on these initiatives, see “