RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company's Results Jet fuel costs are subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict, including increases in demand, sudden disruptions in and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. Fuel prices increased substantially in fiscal years 2007 and 2006 and are currently close to historically high levels, which has had a significant impact on Ryanair's costs, and in turn, on its operating results. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair's fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates or the unavailability of adequate supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions, or the suspension of production by any significant producer, could have a material adverse effect on Ryanair's profitability. A fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise could result additional increases in fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services. While Ryanair had historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering 12-18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements, in light of the significant increases in oil prices in recent years, Ryanair now enters into any such hedging arrangements on a more selective basis. At August 31, 2007, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for the period from September 2007 through March 2008 at prices equivalent to approximately $65 per barrel of Brent crude oil. Ryanair has not otherwise entered into material agreements to seek to fix the price of a material quantity of fuel. As a result of Ryanair's decision to be more selective in entering into new hedging arrangements, the Company may be more exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, especially in light of recent significant increases. There can be no assurance that Ryanair's current or any future such arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from further increases in the price of fuel, or that fuel prices will decline from their current historically high levels any time in the near future. See "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Fuel Price Exposure and Hedging." Based upon Ryanair's fuel consumption for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, a change of one U.S. cent in the average annual price per gallon of aviation fuel would have caused a change of approximately EUR3 million in the Company's annual fuel costs. Ryanair's fuel costs in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, after giving effect to the Company's fuel hedging activities, increased by 49.9% over the comparable period ended March 31, 2006, to EUR693.3 million, primarily due to the increase in the average price of fuel, an increase in the number of sectors flown and the average sector length as a result of the expansion of Ryanair's fleet and route network, offset in part by improvements in fuel burn per hour due to the increasing use of wingleted aircraft and the positive impact on fuel costs of the strengthening of the euro against the dollar. Ryanair estimates that its fuel cost would have been approximately EUR639.6 million in fiscal year 2007, compared to EUR456.4 million in fiscal 2006 (excluding de-icing costs of EUR4.7 million in 2007 and EUR6.1 million in 2006) had Ryanair not had any hedging arrangements in place. Because of Ryanair's low-fares policy, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is somewhat limited. Moreover, the anticipated substantial expansion of Ryanair's fleet will result in a substantial increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair's aggregate fuel costs. 7 Terrorism in the United Kingdom or Elsewhere in Europe Could Have a Material Detrimental Effect on the Company On August 10, 2006, U.K. security authorities arrested and subsequently charged eight individuals in connection with a plot to attack aircraft operating on transatlantic routes. As a result of these arrests, U.K. authorities introduced increased security measures which resulted in all passengers being body searched, and banned the transportation in carry-on baggage of certain liquids and gels. The introduction of these measures led to passengers suffering severe delays while passing through these airport security checks. As a result, Ryanair cancelled 279 flights in the days following the incident and refunded a total of EUR2.7 million in fares to approximately 40,000 passengers. In the days following the arrests, Ryanair also suffered reductions in bookings estimated to have resulted in a loss of an additional approximately EUR1.9 million in revenue. As in the past, the Company reacted to these adverse events by initiating system-wide fare sales to stimulate demand for air travel. On September 1, 2006, Ryanair filed a claim for EUR4.6 million in compensation against the U.K. Department of Transport under section 93 of the U.K. Transport Act 2000. Section 93 of the act provides for compensation for airlines in cases in which the department has issued directions under the act that have lead to financial damages to the airlines. The case is to be heard in the London High Court. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its legal action or in obtaining any compensation in connection with its claims. On August 14, 2006, the U.K. security authorities reduced the level of security searches and at the same time introduced additional baggage restrictions in relation to the size of baggage that can be stowed in aircraft cabins. Passengers have suffered delays on an ongoing basis as a result of increased security measures and carry-on baggage restrictions. In addition, reservations on Ryanair's flights to London dropped materially for a number of days in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks in London on July 7, 2005. Although the terrorist attack in Glasgow on June 30, 2007 (in which a car filled with explosives was driven into the doorway of Glasgow airport) and the failed terrorist attacks in London on July 21, 2005 and June 29, 2007 had no material impact on bookings, there can be no assurance that future such attacks will not affect our passenger traffic. In fiscal 2007, flights into and out of London accounted for 18.9 million, or approximately 44%, of passengers traveling on the Company's network. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, flights into and out of London accounted for 17.5 million passengers and 15.4 million passengers, respectively, or approximately 50% and 56%, respectively, of passengers traveling on the Company's network. Future acts of terrorism or significant terrorist threats, particularly in London or other markets that are significant to Ryanair, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability or financial condition should the public's willingness to travel to and from those markets be reduced as a result. See also "Risks Related to the Airline Industry-The 2001 Terrorist Attacks on the United States Had a Severe Negative Impact on the International Airline Industry." The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Alleging Unlawful State Aid at Certain Airports In December 2002, the European Commission announced the launch of an investigation into the April 2001 agreement between Ryanair and Brussels (Charleroi) airport and the airport's owner, the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium which enabled the Company to launch new routes and base up to four aircraft at Brussels (Charleroi). In February 2004, the European Commission found that a portion of the arrangements between Ryanair, the airport and the region constituted illegal state aid, and therefore ordered Ryanair to repay the amount of the benefit received in connection with those arrangements. In May 2004, Ryanair appealed the decision of the European Commission to the European Court of First Instance, requesting that the decision be annulled. Ryanair is still waiting for the court to schedule a hearing. 8 In addition, in April 2004, the Walloon Region wrote to Ryanair requesting repayment of all amounts that had been deemed illegal, although it acknowledged Ryanair's right to offset against these amounts certain costs incurred in relation to the establishment of the base, in accordance with the European Commission's decision. In September 2004, the Walloon Region issued a formal demand that Ryanair repay a total of approximately EUR4 million, excluding any interest that may be due. Ryanair believes that no repayment is due when such offsets are taken into account, although it has placed this amount in escrow pending the outcome of its appeal. In May 2005, the Walloon Region initiated a new proceeding currently pending before the Irish High Court to recover a further EUR2.3 million in start-up costs that had been reimbursed to Ryanair in connection with its establishment of the base. Ryanair does not believe any such payment is due and is currently defending the action. For additional details on this matter, please see "Item 8. Financial Information--Other Financial Information--Legal Proceedings." On September 6, 2005, the European Commission announced new guidelines on the financing of airports and provision of start-up aid to airlines by certain publicly owned airports based on the European Commission's finding in the Charleroi case. See "Item 8. Financial Information-Consolidated Financial Information-Legal Proceedings." In an unrelated, though similar, matter, in July 2003, a Strasbourg court ruled (on the basis of a complaint by the Air France Group ("Air France")) that marketing support granted by the Strasbourg Chamber of Commerce to Ryanair in connection with its launch of services from Strasbourg to London (Stansted) constituted unlawful state aid. The judgment took effect on September 24, 2003 and was upheld on the initial appeal. Ryanair appealed this decision to the French Administrative Supreme Court (Conseil d'Etat) on the basis that the marketing support granted was not state aid. In February 2006, the Conseil d'Etat rejected this appeal and no further appeal can be filed. As a result of the initial decision of the Strasbourg court to annul Ryanair's contract with Strasbourg Airport, Ryanair decided to close the Strasbourg route and instead opened a route from Baden-Karlsruhe in Germany to London (Stansted) (Baden airport is located some 40 kilometers from Strasbourg). Ryanair is facing similar legal challenges by third parties with respect to agreements with certain other airports. In July 2006, a local court in Germany required the City of Lubeck to disclose to a competing German airline operating out of the main airport in Hamburg details of an agreement between Hamburg Lubeck Airport and Ryanair. However, the ruling does not affect Ryanair's costs at Lubeck Airport, as the airport was subsequently acquired by a private owner who is offering the same arrangements to Ryanair and all other airlines. There have also been complaints by competitors regarding Ryanair's arrangements with Shannon Airport, Alghero Airport and Frankfurt Hahn Airport. In July 2007, the European Commission announced that it had started investigations of airport agreements at the Lubeck, Tampere, Berlin (Schonefeld) and Dortmund airports. Ryanair has relatively limited operations to and from the first three airports and does not operate flights to or from Dortmund. Adverse rulings in these or similar cases could be used as precedents by other competitors to challenge Ryanair's agreements with other publicly owned airports and could cause Ryanair to strongly reconsider its growth strategy in relation to public or state-owned airports across Europe. This could in turn lead to a scaling-back of Ryanair's growth strategy due to the smaller number of privately-owned airports available for development. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of these proceedings, nor as to whether any unfavorable outcomes may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the results of operation or financial condition of the Company. The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment Ryanair operates in a highly competitive marketplace, with a large number of new entrants, traditional airlines and charter airlines competing throughout the route network. 9 Airlines compete primarily with respect to fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, name recognition, passenger amenities (such as access to frequent flyer programs) and the availability and convenience of other passenger services. Unlike Ryanair, certain of Ryanair's competitors are state-owned or controlled flag carriers and in some cases may have greater name recognition and resources and may have received or may receive in the future significant amounts of subsidies and other state aid from their respective governments. In addition, negotiations between the EU and the United States on a comprehensive "open skies" agreement could result in the removal of current barriers to the entry of U.S. carriers into the intra-EU market. See "Item 