ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements - -------------------------- This report and other reports and statements issued by the Company and its officers from time to time contain certain "forward-looking statements." Words such as "may," "should," "likely," "could," "seek," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "intend," "strategy," "design to," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements about the Company's future plans, objectives, performance, intentions and expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties including, but are not limited to, those set forth below under "Factors That May Affect Future Results." Such risks and uncertainties could cause the Company's actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those described in or implied by the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date they are made. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT UPON GENERAL ECONOMIC, COMPETITIVE AND OTHER BUSINESS CONDITIONS, INCLUDING THE UNITED STATES AND EUROPEAN ECONOMIES AND OTHER GENERAL CONDITIONS, SUCH AS CUSTOMERS OFF-SHORING ACTIVITIES TO OTHER COUNTRIES. The demand for the Company's services in all segments is dependent upon general economic conditions. Accordingly, the Company's business tends to suffer during economic downturns. In addition, in the past few years major United States companies, many of which are customers of the Company, have increasingly outsourced business to foreign countries with lower labor rates, less costly employee benefit requirements and fewer regulations than the United States. There could be an adverse effect on the Company if customers and potential customers continue to move manufacturing and servicing operations off-shore, reducing their need for temporary workers within the United States. It is also important for the Company to diversify its pool of available temporary personnel to offer greater support to the service sector of the economy and other businesses that have more difficulty in moving off-shore, as well as expanding its retail customer base which generally affords higher margin opportunities. In addition, the Company's other segments may be adversely affected if they are required to compete from the Company's United States based operations against competitors based in such other countries. Although the Company has begun to expand its operations, in a limited manner and to serve existing customers, in such countries, and has established subsidiaries in some foreign countries, there can be no assurance that this effort will be successful or that the Company can successfully compete with competitors based overseas or who have established foreign operations. The Company's business is dependent upon the continued financial strength of its customers. Some customers that experience economic downturns or other negative factors are less likely to use the Company's services. In the staffing services segment, a weakened economy results in decreased demand for temporary and permanent personnel. When economic activity slows down, many of the Company's customers reduce their use of temporary employees before they reduce the number of their regular employees. There is less need for contingent workers by all potential customers, who are less inclined to add to their costs. Since employees are reluctant to risk changing employers, there are fewer openings and reduced activity in permanent placements as well. In addition, while in many fields there are ample applicants for available positions, variations in the rate of unemployment and higher wages sought by temporary workers in certain technical fields with labor shortages could affect the Company's ability to meet its customers' demands in these fields and the Company's profit margins. The segment has also experienced margin erosion caused by increased competition, electronic auctions and customers leveraging their buying power by consolidating the number of vendors with which they deal. Increased workers' compensation costs and unemployment insurance, other payroll taxes and business taxes, some of which the Company is unable to pass on to customers, also place pressure on margins. 17 Customer use of the Company's telecommunications services is similarly affected by a weakened economy in that some of the Company's customers reduce their use of outside services in order to provide work to their in-house departments. Actions by major long-distance telephone companies to reduce marketing of local residential service and consolidation in the telecommunications industry could also negatively impact both sales and margins of the segment. Additionally, in all segments, the degree and timing of customer acceptance of systems and of obtaining new contracts and the rate of renewals of existing contracts, as well as customers' utilization of the Company's services, could adversely affect the Company's businesses. MANY OF THE COMPANY'S CONTRACTS EITHER PROVIDE NO MINIMUM PURCHASE REQUIREMENTS OR ARE CANCELABLE DURING THE TERM, OR BOTH. In all segments, many of the Company's contracts, even those master service contracts whose duration spans a number of years, provide no assurance of any minimum amount of work that will actually be available under any contract. Most staffing services contracts are not sole source, so the segment must compete for each placement at the customer. Similarly, many telecommunications master contracts require competition in order to obtain each individual work project. In addition, many of the Company's long-term contracts contain cancellation provisions under which the customer can cancel the contract, even if the Company is not in default under the contract. Therefore, these contracts do not give the assurances that long-term contracts often provide. THE COMPANY'S STAFFING SERVICES BUSINESS AND ITS OTHER SEGMENTS SUBJECT IT TO EMPLOYMENT-RELATED AND OTHER CLAIMS. The Company's staffing services business employs individuals on a temporary basis and places them in a customer's workplace. The Company's ability to control the customer workplace is often limited, and the Company risks incurring liability to its employees for injury (which results in increased workers' compensation costs) or other harm that they suffer at the customer's workplace. Increases in worker's compensation costs adversely affect the Company's competitive position and its ability to retain business and obtain new business. Although the Company has not historically suffered materially for such harm suffered by its employees, other than increases in workers' compensation costs, there can be no assurance that future claims will not materially adversely affect the Company. Additionally, the Company risks liability to its customers for the actions of the Company's employees that may result in harm to the Company's customers. Such actions may be the result of negligence or misconduct on the part of the Company's temporary employees. These same factors apply to all of the Company's business units, although the risk may be reduced where the Company itself controls the employees and/or the workplace. Nevertheless, the risk is present in all segments. The Company may incur fines or other losses and negative publicity with respect to any litigation in which it becomes involved. Although the Company maintains insurance for many such actions, there can be no assurance that its insurance will cover future actions or that the Company will continue to be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. 18 NEW AND INCREASED GOVERNMENT REGULATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS, ESPECIALLY ITS CONTINGENT STAFFING BUSINESS. Certain of the Company's businesses are subject to licensing and regulation in many states and certain foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has not had any difficulty complying with these requirements in the past, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to do so, or that the cost of compliance will not become material. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which we do or intend to do business may: o create new or additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of services that we currently provide; o impose new or additional employee benefit requirements, thereby increasing costs that may not be able to be passed on to customers or which would cause customers to reduce their use of the Company's services, especially in its staffing services segment, which would adversely impact the Company's ability to conduct its business; o require the Company to obtain additional licenses to provide its services; or o increase taxes (especially payroll and other employment related taxes) or enact new or different taxes payable by the providers of services such as those offered by the Company, thereby increasing costs, some of which may not be able to be passed on to customers or which would cause customers to reduce their use of the Company's services, especially in its staffing services segment, which would adversely impact the Company's ability to conduct its business. In addition, certain private and governmental entities have focused on the contingent staffing industry in particular and, in addition to their potential to impose additional requirements and costs, they and their supporters could cause changes in customers' attitudes toward the use of outsourcing and temporary personnel in general. This could have an adverse effect on the Company's contingent staffing business. THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT UPON ITS ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN CERTAIN TECHNOLOGICALLY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. The Company's future success is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain certain classifications of technologically qualified personnel for its own use, particularly in the areas of research and development, implementation and upgrading of internal systems, as well as in its staffing services segment. The availability of such personnel is dependent upon a number of economic and demographic conditions. The Company may in the future find it difficult or more costly to hire such personnel in the face of competition from other companies. THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH THE COMPANY DOES BUSINESS ARE VERY COMPETITIVE. The Company operates in very competitive industries with, in most cases, limited barriers to entry. Some of the Company's principal competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able than the Company to attract and retain qualified personnel and may be able to offer their customers more favorable pricing terms than the Company. In many businesses, small competitors can offer similar services at lower prices because of lower overheads. 19 The Company, in all segments, has experienced intense price competition and pressure on margins and lower renewal markups for customers' contracts than previously obtained. While the Company has and will continue to take action to meet competition in its highly competitive markets with minimal impact on margins, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so. The Company, in certain businesses in all segments, must obtain or produce products and systems, principally in the IT environment, to satisfy customer requirements and to remain competitive. While the Company has been able to do so in the past, there can be no assurance that in the future the Company will be able to foresee changes and to identify, develop and commercialize innovative and competitive products and systems in a timely and cost effective manner and to achieve customer acceptance of its products and systems in markets characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions. In addition, the Company's products and systems are subject to risks inherent in new product introductions, such as start-up delays, cost overruns and uncertainty of customer acceptance, the Company's dependence on third parties for some product components and in certain technical fields with labor shortages, the Company's ability to hire and retain such specialized employees, all of which could affect the Company's ability to meet its customers' demands in these fields and the Company's profit margins. In addition to these general statements, the following information applies to the specific segments identified below. The Company's Staffing Services segment is in a very competitive industry with few significant barriers to entry. There are many temporary service firms in the United States and Europe, many with only one or a few offices that service only a small market and generally have lower overhead. On the other hand, some of this segment's principal competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than the Company and service the multi-national accounts whose business the Company solicits. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able than the Company to attract and retain qualified personnel and may be able to offer their customers more favorable pricing terms than the Company. Furthermore, all of the staffing industry is subject to the fact that contingent workers are provided to customers and most customers are more protective of their full time workforce than contingent workers. The results of the Company's Computer Systems segment are highly dependent on the volume of directory assistance calls to this segment's customers which are processed by the segment under existing contracts, the segment's ability to continue to secure comprehensive listings from others at acceptable pricing, its ability to obtain additional customers for these services and on its continued ability to sell products and services to new and existing customers. The volume of transactions with this segment's customers is subject to reduction as consumers utilize listings offered on the Internet. This segment's position in its market depends largely upon its reputation, quality of service and ability to develop, maintain and implement information systems on a cost competitive basis. Although Volt continues its investment in research and development, there is no assurance that this segment's present or future products will be competitive, that the segment will continue to develop new products or that present products or new products can be successfully marketed. The Company's Telecommunications Services segment faces substantial competition with respect to all of its telecommunications services from other suppliers and from in-house capabilities of present and potential customers. Since many of our customers provide the same type of services as the segment, the segment faces competition from its own customers and potential customers as well as from third parties. The telecommunications service segment performs much of its services outdoors, and its business can be adversely affected by inclement weather. Some of this segment's significant competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. There are relatively few significant barriers to entry into certain of the markets in which the segment operates, and many competitors are small, local companies that generally have lower overhead. In August 2005, the Company restructured the Telecommunications Services segment which is expected to result in a reduction of future overhead within the segment, including reduction of the headcount, consolidating two divisions and closing and consolidating several of its leased locations. The Company's ability to compete in this segment depends upon its reputation, technical capabilities, pricing, quality of service and ability to meet customer requirements in a timely manner, as well as the economic health of the telecom industry. Volt believes that its competitive position in this segment is augmented by its ability to draw upon the expertise and resources of other Volt segments. 20 THE COMPANY MUST SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE THE PURCHASED VARETIS SOLUTIONS INTO THE COMPANY'S COMPUTER SYSTEMS SEGMENT On December 30, 2005, Volt Delta Resources, LLC ("Volt Delta"), a now wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired varetis AG's Varetis Solutions subsidiary, which is engaged in the business of providing directory assistance solutions to customers. Together with its subsidiaries, Volt Delta is reported as the Company's Computer Systems Segment. In addition to the factors described elsewhere herein, the Company's results in this segment are dependent upon the Company's ability to successfully integrate the acquisition into Volt Delta's business with minimal interference with the segment's business. THE COMPANY MUST STAY IN COMPLIANCE WITH ITS SECURITIZATION PROGRAM AND OTHER LOAN AGREEMENTS The Company is required to maintain a sufficient credit rating to enable it to continue its Securitization Program and maintain its existing credit rating in order to avoid any increase in fees under other credit agreements. In addition, the Company must also comply with the financial and other covenants applicable under the various agreements and other borrowing instruments. While the Company was in compliance with all such requirements at the end of the fiscal year and believes it will remain in compliance throughout the next twelve months, there can be no assurance that will be the case or that waivers may not be required. THE COMPANY MUST STAY IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT The Company believes it is in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, except for the single material weakness described in Item 9A of this Form 10-K. The cost of compliance adversely affected the Company's operating results for its 2005 fiscal year. The costs of continued compliance with the Act will affect the Company's operating results in the future, but not to the extent of the Company's 2005 first year compliance. While the Company expects to be in compliance with the Act, there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so. THE COMPANY'S PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS OWN A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF THE COMPANY AND WILL BE ABLE TO EXERCISE SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER THE COMPANY AND THEIR INTERESTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE OF OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. As of December 31, 2005, the Company's principal shareholders and members of their family controlled in excess of 45% of the Company's outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these shareholders are able to control the composition of the Company's board of directors and many other matters requiring shareholder approval and will continue to have significant influence over the Company's affairs. This concentration of ownership also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company. 21 THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE COULD BE EXTREMELY VOLATILE AND, AS A RESULT, INVESTORS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESELL THEIR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE THEY PAID FOR THEM. Among the factors that could affect the Company's stock price are: o limited float and a low average daily trading volume, notwithstanding that the Company's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange; o industry trends and the business success of the Company's customers; o loss of a key customer; o fluctuations in the Company's results of operations; o the Company's failure to meet the expectations of the investment community and changes in investment community recommendations or estimates of the Company's future results of operations; o strategic moves by the Company's competitors, such as product announcements or acquisitions; o regulatory developments, including compliance with The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; o litigation; o general market conditions; and o other domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to the Company's performance. The stock market has and may in the future experience extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. If a securities class action suit is filed against the Company, it would incur substantial legal fees and management's attention and resources would be diverted from operating its business in order to respond to the litigation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 22 