RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood of Adverse Impact to the Company’s Profitability. Jet fuel costs are subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict, including increases in demand, sudden disruptions in supply and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. For example, although they declined in the 2010 fiscal year, oil prices increased substantially in fiscal years 2011 and 2012 and remain at elevated levels. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair’s fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates, or the unavailability of adequate supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from international terrorism, prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions or the suspension of production by any significant producer, may adversely affect Ryanair’s profitability. In the event of a fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, additional increases in fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services could result. Ryanair has historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering periods of up to 18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements. Ryanair (like many other airlines) has, in more recent periods, entered into hedging arrangements on a more selective basis. As of July 27, 2012, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013 at prices equivalent to approximately $1,000 per metric ton. In addition, as of July 27, 2012, Ryanair had entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 50% of its estimated requirements for the first half of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014 at prices equivalent to approximately $935 per metric ton, and had not entered into any jet fuel hedging contracts with respect to its expected fuel purchases beyond that quarter. Because of the limited nature of its hedging program, the Company is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, and movements in the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate, especially in light of the recent volatility in the relevant markets. Any new increase in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro could have an adverse effect on the cost of buying fuel in euro. As of July 27, 2012, Ryanair had hedged 90% of its forecasted fuel-related dollar purchases against the euro at a rate of $1.38 per euro for the period to March 31, 2013, without, however, having entered into any material hedging arrangements with respect to periods thereafter. See “—The Company May Not Be Successful in Raising Fares to Offset Increased Business Costs” below. No assurances whatsoever can be given about trends in fuel prices, and average fuel prices for the 2013 fiscal year or for future years may be significantly higher than current prices. Management estimates that every $10 movement in the price of a metric ton of jet fuel will impact Ryanair’s costs by approximately €1.0 million, taking into account Ryanair’s hedging program for the 2013 fiscal year. There can be no assurance, however, in this regard, and the impact of fuel prices on Ryanair’s operating results may be more pronounced. There also cannot be any assurance that Ryanair’s current or any future arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from increases in the price of fuel or that Ryanair will not incur losses due to high fuel prices alone or in combination with other factors. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Fuel Price Exposure and Hedging.” Because of Ryanair’s low fares and its no-fuel-surcharges policy, as well as the Company’s expansion plans, which could have a negative impact on yields, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is somewhat limited. Moreover, the anticipated expansion of Ryanair’s fleet in 2013 will result in an increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair’s aggregate fuel costs. Based upon Ryanair’s fuel consumption for the 2012 fiscal year, a change of $10 in the average annual price per metric ton of jet fuel at the prevailing euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate would have caused a change of approximately €17.0 million in the Company’s annual fuel costs. Ryanair’s fuel costs in the 2012 fiscal year, after giving effect to the Company’s fuel hedging activities, increased by approximately 30% from the comparable period ended March 31, 2011, to €1,593.6 million, primarily due to higher market prices per metric ton and growth of the airline. Ryanair estimates that its fuel costs would have been approximately €1,923.9 million in the 2012 fiscal year, as compared to €1,275.1 million in the 2011 fiscal year, had Ryanair not had any fuel hedging arrangements in place in either fiscal year. 7 Ryanair Has Decided to Seasonally Ground Aircraft. In recent years, in response to an operating environment characterized by high fuel prices, typically lower winter yields and higher airport charges and/or taxes, Ryanair has adopted a policy of grounding a certain portion of its fleet during the winter months (from November to March). In the winter of fiscal year 2012, Ryanair grounded approximately 80 aircraft and the Company announced in May 2012 that it intends to again ground approximately 80 aircraft during the coming winter. Ryanair’s adoption of the policy of seasonally grounding aircraft presents some risks. While the Company seeks to implement its seasonal grounding policy in a way that will allow it to reduce losses by operating flights to high cost airports at low winter yields, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Additionally, the Company’s growth has been largely dependent on increasing capacity, and decreasing winter capacity may affect the overall future growth of the Company. Further, while seasonal grounding does reduce the Company’s variable operating costs, it does not avoid fixed costs such as aircraft ownership costs and some staff costs, and it also decreases Ryanair’s potential to earn ancillary revenues. Decreasing the number and frequency of flights may also negatively affect the Company’s labor relations, including its ability to attract flight personnel interested in full-time employment. Such risks could lead to negative effects on the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Associated with the Euro. Ryanair is headquartered in Ireland and its reporting currency is the euro. As a result of the ongoing uncertainty surrounding the eurozone debt crisis, there has been widespread speculation that some member states could exit the euro or that there may be a potential break-up of the eurozone currency union, including with regard to Ireland, the country in which Ryanair is headquartered. If a eurozone participating member state were to leave the eurozone, there is a risk of contagion spreading to the remaining members. Ryanair predominantly operates to/from countries within the eurozone and has significant operational and financial exposures to the eurozone that could result in a reduction in the operating performance of the Company or the devaluation of certain assets. See “Item 4 - Strategy for further information”. The Company has taken certain risk management measures to minimise any disruptions, however these risk management measures may fail to address the potential fall-out from a break-up of the euro or an exit by one of the eurozone members. Ryanair has cash and aircraft assets and debt liabilities that are denominated in euro on its balance sheet. In addition the positive/negative mark-to-market on derivative based transactions are recorded in euro as either assets or liabilities on Ryanair’s balance sheet. A potential exit of a member state or the break-up of the eurozone could have a materially adverse effect on the value of these assets and liabilities. In addition to the assets and liabilities on Ryanair’s balance sheet, Ryanair has a number of cross currency risks as a result of the jurisdictions of the operating business including non-euro revenues, fuel costs, certain maintenance costs and insurance costs. A weakening in the value of the euro primarily against U.K. pound sterling and U.S. dollar but also against other non-eurozone European currencies and Moroccan Dirhams, could negatively impact the operating results of the Company. Currency Fluctuations Affect the Company’s Results. Although the Company is headquartered in Ireland, a significant portion of its operations is conducted in the U.K. Consequently, the Company has significant operating revenues and operating expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, denominated in U.K. pounds sterling. In addition, fuel, aircraft, insurance, and some maintenance obligations are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition can therefore be significantly affected by fluctuations in the respective values of the U.K. pound sterling and the U.S. dollar. Ryanair is particularly subject to direct exchange rate risks between the euro and the U.S. dollar because a significant portion of its operating costs are incurred in U.S. dollars and none of its revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. Although the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions between the euro and the U.S. dollar, between the euro and the U.K. pound sterling, and between the U.K. pound sterling and the U.S. dollar, hedging activities cannot be expected to eliminate currency risks. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 8 The Company May Not Be Successful in Increasing Fares and Revenues to Offset Higher Business Costs. Ryanair operates a low-fares airline. The success of its business model depends on its ability to control costs so as to deliver low fares while at the same time earning a profit. The Company has limited control over its fuel costs and already has comparatively low other operating costs. In periods of high fuel costs, if the Company is unable to further reduce its other operating costs or generate additional revenues, operating profits are likely to fall. The Company cannot offer any assurances regarding its future profitability. See “—The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment” below and “—Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood that the Company May Incur Additional Losses” above. The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Alleging State Aid at Certain Airports. Formal investigations are ongoing by the European Commission into Ryanair’s agreements with the Lübeck, Berlin (Schönefeld), Alghero, Pau, Aarhus, Frankfurt (Hahn), Dusseldorf (Weeze), Zweibrücken, Altenburg, Klagenfurt, Stockholm (Vasteras), Paris (Beauvais), La Rochelle, Carcassonne, Nimes, Angouleme, Marseille and Brussels (Charleroi) airports. The investigations seek to determine whether the arrangements constitute illegal state aid. The investigations are expected to be completed in late 2012/early 2013, with the European Commission’s decisions being appealable to the EU General Court. In addition to the European Commission investigations, Ryanair is facing allegations that it has benefited from unlawful state aid in a number of court cases, including in relation to its arrangements with Frankfurt (Hahn) and Lübeck airports. Adverse rulings in these matters could be used as precedents by competitors to challenge Ryanair’s agreements with other publicly owned airports and could cause Ryanair to strongly reconsider its growth strategy in relation to public or state-owned airports across Europe. This could in turn lead to a scaling-back of Ryanair’s overall growth strategy due to the smaller number of privately owned airports available for development. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of legal proceedings, nor as to whether any unfavorable outcomes may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the results of operation or financial condition of the Company. For additional information, please see “Item 8. Financial Information—Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment. Ryanair operates in a highly competitive marketplace, with a number of low-fare, traditional and charter airlines competing throughout the route network. Airlines compete primarily with respect to fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, name recognition, passenger amenities (such as access to frequent flyer programs), and the availability and convenience of other passenger services. Unlike Ryanair, certain of Ryanair’s competitors are state-owned or state-controlled flag carriers and in some cases may have greater name recognition and resources and may have received, or may receive in the future, significant amounts of subsidies and other state aid from their respective governments. In addition, the EU-U.S. Open Skies Agreement, which entered into effect in March 2008, allows U.S. carriers to offer services in the intra-EU market, which should eventually result in increased competition. See “