Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers should carefully consider the following factors that may affect our business, future operating results and financial condition, as well as other information included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Proposed De-Conversion and FEP Produced Fluoride Gas Business We do not have an operating history with respect to our strategy to combine de-conversion services and FEP produced fluoride gas products and this business may not succeed. We have no operating results with respect to providing de-conversion services or producing high volumes of fluoride gas products using FEP to date and, therefore, we do not have an operating history upon which you can evaluate this business or our prospects. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered in entering a new line of business. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: • construct our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant and obtain the additional financing necessary for such construction; • obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; • produce commercially economic volumes of high purity fluoride gas using FEP; • effectively manage this new business and its operations; • successfully establish and maintain our intended low-cost structure; • successfully obtain disposal services for our depleted uranium waste stream; and • successfully address the other risks described throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. 9 If we cannot successfully manage these risks, our business and results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We will need to raise additional funds to complete the construction of our de-conversion and FEP facility. We need to raise approximately $125 million additional funds to complete the design, license and construction of a de-conversion facility with a production scale FEP operation. We may not be able to raise the additional capital required to complete the facility on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the total funds required to complete this project have been based upon early preliminary estimates and, while we believe these estimates are conservative, there can be no assurance that unforeseen expense will not be incurred and additional funding required to complete the project. We may be unsuccessful in obtaining a loan from the DOE to complete construction of our de-conversion and FEP facility. We have submitted an application to the DOE Loan Guarantee Office for a loan for the construction of our de-conversion and FEP facility. The DOE loan program provides low cost loans for up to 80% of the capital cost of qualifying projects in the fields of energy and energy efficiency. The DOE loan program is currently deferring loan application reviews. When the DOE resumes the process, there can be no guarantee that the DOE will determine our project to be a qualifying project or that the DOE will award us a loan. If the loan application is unsuccessful, we will have to raise the balance of the funds required for the planned facility through additional equity or debt financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms, or at all, if the DOE loan is not available. The market for our de-conversion services may be adversely affected if planned enrichment facilities that would create by-products suitable for our de-conversion services are not completed. We plan to build a de-conversion and FEP production plant, in part, to process the anticipated UF6 by-product from certain enrichment facilities being planned by several companies, including USEC, AREVA and GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy's Global Laser Enrichment. While we have an agreement in place with UUSA and that facility is in operation, additional contracts will be required to utilize the full capacity of our planned facility. If none of the other anticipated enrichment facilities are completed, we may not have sufficient demand for our de-conversion services to realize the expected economic benefit from our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant. We currently have only one contract to provide de-conversion services to an enrichment firm. We currently have only one effective de-conversion services agreement with UUSA. The agreement is conditional upon, among other things, each party obtaining necessary third party and government approvals, UUSA obtaining the approval of the NRC to the amendment of a provision in its materials license that prohibits shipments of depleted uranium to de-conversion facilities employing anhydrous hydrofluoric acid in the de-conversion process, and our meeting certain performance milestones in the construction and start-up of the planned facility. The initial term of the agreement extends for a period sufficient to cover five years of de-conversion services once our planned uranium de-conversion facility is operational, based on operations starting no later than January 1, 2014. If we cannot demonstrate certain production capacities in accordance with the agreement, UUSA has the option to terminate the agreement and we would have no opportunity to cure pursuant to the terms of the agreement. There is no history of large-scale commercial fluoride gas production utilizing FEP. We have successfully demonstrated the feasibility of using FEP to produce some fluoride gases and Starmet Corporation (Starmet), that originally developed and patented the technology, also used FEP to produce a fluoride gas. However, FEP has not been used for large-scale commercial production of the size and magnitude envisioned in conjunction with the de-conversion process and there may be technical issues and process challenges related to the utilization of FEP for large-scale commercial production. Unforeseen issues associated with constructing and scaling up these new FEP operations could significantly impact our proposed schedule and our overall ability to produce high-purity fluoride gas in the quantities anticipated. 10 The licensing and environmental permitting process with respect to the construction of our planned depleted UF6 de-conversion and FEP facility is ongoing and we cannot guarantee the amount of time required to obtain approval from the NRC and the State of New Mexico for operation of these facilities. We have no control over the actual time required by the NRC to complete its review, determine whether it will issue a license, and then issue such license. Several federal, state and local environmental permits will also be required prior to commencement of construction and/or operations. We have submitted the New Mexico Air Quality permit application and the State issued a draft permit. We are just beginning to complete the application for the groundwater permit. At this point, we cannot assure you that we will receive all the required permits or that there will not be permitting related delays, or that permits will be obtained with favorable terms. The DOE is obligated to take depleted uranium from enrichment companies. The DOE has constructed two depleted uranium de-conversion facilities. These facilities will be obligated to process depleted uranium produced from United States commercial uranium enrichment facilities. We cannot assure you that enrichment companies will not select the DOE as their de-conversion service provider. If we are unable to meet the milestones required by our de-conversion services agreement with UUSA and it terminates that agreement, and other enrichment companies select the DOE as their de-conversion services provider, we will not be able to realize the expected economic benefit from our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant We will be handling large quantities of depleted UF6 and fluoride gases, which are radioactive and hazardous materials respectively, and are subject to intense regulation. The hazardous nature of depleted UF6 and fluoride gases affects the actions we are required to take for licensing, air permitting, environmental review, emergency response, liability insurance, personnel training, and generally increases the level of concern by the general public with respect to our handling of these materials. All of these factors complicate the licensing and operations processes and involve a host of additional regulatory factors that could affect the timeline for completing our de-conversion and FEP facility and cost estimates, and involve political pressures that could negatively influence operations. Additionally, the NRC is revising its regulations on the disposal of depleted uranium waste at Low Level Radioactive Waste (LLRW) disposal facilities that accept substantial quantities of depleted uranium. Any changes to the current regulations may result in increased disposal costs that we intend to pass through to our customers, which, depending on the significance of the increased cost, may cause potential customers to continue to store their depleted UF 6 rather than pay for de-conversion and disposal services. We will be subject to competition from the DOE and other companies. While there are no currently operating commercial depleted UF6 de-conversion facilities in the United States, the DOE is starting up two de-conversion plants intended to process depleted UF 6 from the DOE’s existing 1.5 billion pound stockpile. Additionally, AREVA currently operates a de-conversion plant in France, URENCO plans to construct a facility in the U.K., and Rosatom has constructed a facility in Russia. We cannot assure you that the existing UF 6 de-conversion facilities will not build additional facilities to expand their operations and compete with us in providing de-conversion services or that commercial enrichment companies will not choose to ship their depleted UF 6 overseas for processing in France, the U.K., or Russia. We currently hold conditional title to the property in Lea County, New Mexico where the proposed plant is to be constructed. The property location for our planned facility is contained in Lea County, New Mexico. Lea County has transferred the property to us under the provisions of the New Mexico Local Economic Development Act, Project Participation Agreement. We are obligated to meet certain performance objectives; namely starting phase 1 construction no later than December 31, 2014, and hiring at least 75 employees by December 31, 2015, in order to retain title to the property. If we do not retain title to the property, it will have a material adverse impact on our planned de-conversion and FEP project. After completing Phase I of our planned de-conversion and FEP production facility, we may not have sufficient earnings to complete additional planned phases of the facility. We plan to integrate the de-conversion of depleted UF6 with FEP in multiple phases. After funding Phase I, we plan to fund additional phases through earnings. If we do not realize the earnings necessary to fund these additional phases, we may need to find other sources of capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the additional capital required to complete these phases on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the total funds required to complete these phases have been based upon early preliminary estimates and there can be no assurance that unforeseen expenses will not be incurred and additional funding required to complete these phases will be obtained. 11 Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary FEP technology utilized in our planned de-conversion and FEP production facility. We rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights to the FEP technology to be used in our planned de-conversion and FEP production plant. Although we have filed a corresponding international Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) application to seek international protection for the FEP process, we currently have no international protection for our FEP process. We cannot be certain that the FEP-related patents will be issued in all countries where our patents can be practiced. Further, our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our FEP patents are or may be practiced may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, increasing the possibility of piracy of our patents. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our FEP technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Risks Related To Our Current Business Operations We are dependent on various third parties in connection with our business operations. The production of high specific activity cobalt is dependent upon the DOE, and its prime-operating contractor, which controls the Idaho reactor. Loss of the ability to use, or cost effectively use, these irradiation services would significantly impact our cobalt products business segment because there is not currently another reactor available in the United States that is capable of providing this type of service for us. Our nuclear medicine calibration and reference standard manufacturing is conducted under an exclusive contract with RadQual, LLC, which in turn has agreements in place with several companies for marketing and sales. Our radiochemical iodine is supplied through a contract with a single supply source. Unanticipated contract terminations by any of these suppliers and other third parties can have a material adverse impact on operations, financial results, and cash flow. We are dependent on a limited number of customers in connection with our current business operations. During 2011, sales to one major customer accounted for 54% of our total gross revenue, excluding consolidated revenue reported by our joint venture, TI Services, LLC. Sales under exclusive contract with this customer represented 30% and 29% of our total gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Combined sales to our three largest customers accounted for 75% of our total gross revenues during 2011, excluding consolidated revenue reported by our joint venture, TI Services, LLC. Combined sales to these three customers accounted for 52% of gross revenue in 2010. Although we are making efforts to reduce our dependency on a small number of customers, the loss of any one of these significant customers could have a significant impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. Unanticipated contract terminations by any of these current customers could have a material adverse impact on operations, financial results, and cash flow. We are subject to competition from other companies. Each of our existing business areas has direct competition from other businesses. High specific activity cobalt is supplied by other reactor facilities around the world. Nuclear medicine calibration and reference standards are being produced by one other major manufacturer in the United States. Most of our radiochemicals are also manufactured by several other companies in the world, and there are other suppliers of high-purity fluoride products. Each of our competitors has significantly greater financial resources that could give them competitive advantage over us. Risks Related To Our Company Generally We have incurred and may continue to incur losses. With the exception of 2002, we have incurred net losses for most fiscal periods since our inception. From inception through December 31, 2011, we have generated $61,605,801 in revenues and accumulated deficit (including preferred stock dividends and returns) in the amount of $111,994,492. The negative cash flow we have sustained has materially reduced our working capital, which in turn, could materially and negatively impact our ability to fund future operations and continue to operate as a going concern. Management has and continues to take actions to improve our results. The availability of necessary working capital, however, is subject to many factors beyond our control, including our ability to obtain favorable financing, economic cycles, market acceptance of our products, competitors' responses to our products, the intensity of competition in our markets, and the level of demand for our products. 12 Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. The materials used in our operations subject us to risks of environmental contamination that subject us to liability, including remediation obligations that could be very costly. In addition, the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. An irrevocable, automatically renewable letter of credit against a certificate of deposit at Wells Fargo Bank N.A. has been used to provide the financial assurance required by the NRC for our Idaho facility license for decommissioning upon termination of operations and a similar mechanism will be required to fund the decommissioning of the new facility. However, if a contamination event from the spread of uranium occurs within, or outside, of our facility, we would be financially responsible to remediate such spills and could have to borrow money or fund the remediation liability from our future revenue. We may not be able to borrow the funds, or have available revenue, sufficient to meet this potential liability, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our ongoing operations are dependent on Steve T. Laflin, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Laflin could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a $2 million key man life insurance policy on Mr. Laflin and an employment agreement that extends through February 28, 2017. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain Mr. Laflin or our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees. The loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to attract additional qualified employees could result in a significant decline in revenue. General economic conditions in markets in which we do business can impact the demand for our goods and services. Decreased demand for our products and services can have a negative impact on our financial performance and cash flow. Demand for our products and services, in part, depends on the general economic conditions affecting the countries and industries in which we do business. A downturn in economic conditions in a country or industry that we serve may negatively impact demand for our products and services, in turn negatively impacting our operations and financial results. Further, changes in demand for our products and services can magnify the impact of economic cycles on our businesses. For instance, our topaz gemstone processing is affected by the demand for luxury items such as jewelry as well as by the instability of foreign markets which are key in the manufacture of products using irradiated gemstones. Volatility in raw material and energy costs, interruption in ordinary sources of supply and an inability to recover unanticipated increases in energy and raw material costs from customers could result in lost sales or significantly increase the cost of doing business. Market and economic conditions affecting the costs of raw materials, utilities, energy costs, and infrastructure required to provide for the delivery of our goods and services are beyond our control and any disruption or halt in supplies, or rapid escalations in costs could affect our ability to manufacture products or to competitively price our products in the marketplace. For instance, an interruption in the supply of isotopes such as cobalt -57 or iodine -131 could result in lost sales of nuclear medicine and calibration standards sales and radiochemical products We are subject to extensive government regulation in jurisdictions around the globe in which we do business. Regulations address, among other things, environmental compliance, import/export restrictions, healthcare services, taxes and financial reporting, and can significantly increase the cost of doing business, which in turn can negatively impact our operations, financial results and cash flow. We are subject to government regulation and intervention both in the United States and in all foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and operating costs and changes to current regulations with which we must comply can necessitate further capital expenditures and increases in operating costs to enable continued compliance. Additionally, from time to time, we may be involved in legal or administrative proceedings under certain of these laws and regulations. Significant areas of regulation and intervention include the following: Radioactive Waste. All of our manufacturing processes generate some radioactive waste. We must handle this waste pursuant to the Low Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980, which requires the safe disposal of mildly radioactive materials. The estimated costs for storage and disposal of these materials have been included in the manufacturing and sales price of our products. However, actual disposal costs are subject to change at the discretion of the disposal site and are ultimately applied at the time of disposal. The NRC is revising its regulations 13 on the disposal of depleted uranium waste at LLRW disposal facilities that accept substantial quantities of depleted uranium. If commercial LLRW disposal facilities are not readily available to us, we may not be able to provide the de-conversion services at the level assumed by our business model. Health Compliance. Health regulations, dictated by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and NRC are extensive in our business. There is no assurance that our activities will not at times result in liability under health regulations. Costs and expenses resulting from such liability may materially negatively impact our operations and financial condition. Overall, health laws and regulations will continue to affect our business worldwide. Environmental Regulation. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and state statutes such as the Idaho Hazardous Waste Management Act, the Low Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980, NRC regulations concerning various irradiated, radioactive, and depleted uranium materials, and United States Department of Transportation regulations concerning shipment of radioactive materials. Certain of these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Import/Export Regulation. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight of our import and export operations due to the nature of our product offerings. Penalties for non-compliance can be significant and violations can result in adverse publicity. Taxes. We structure our operations to be tax efficient and to make use of tax credits and other incentives. Nevertheless, changes in tax laws, actual results of operations, final audit of tax returns by taxing authorities, and the timing and rate at which tax credits can be utilized can change the rate at which we are taxed, thereby affecting our financial results and cash flow. Financial Accounting Standards. Our financial results can be impacted by new or modified financial accounting standards. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that products supplied by us fail to perform as expected or such failures result, or are alleged to result, in bodily injury. Although we have purchased insurance with coverage and in amounts that we believe to be adequate and reasonable in light of our current and planned operations, including our new uranium de-conversion and fluoride gas production business, if a successful product liability claim if brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or established reserves, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We will need additional financing to continue operations. Because we may continue to experience negative cash flow, we will need to obtain additional financing to continue operations. Management will continue to plan and take actions to improve our financial results which could enhance our ability to obtain debt financing. However, obtaining additional financing is subject to many factors beyond our control and may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our earnings, cash flow and financial position are exposed to financial market risks worldwide, including interest rates. Fluctuations in domestic and world markets could adversely affect interest rates and impact our ability to obtain credit or attract investors. Such market risk could have a negative impact on future business opportunities including our ability to raise additional capital for planned business expansion. We also purchase some of our radiochemical products from overseas suppliers and the price of those products could be adversely affected through changes in currency exchange rates. 14 Catastrophic events such as natural disasters, pandemics, war and acts of terrorism could disrupt our business or the business of our suppliers or customers, and any such disruptions could have a negative impact on our operations, financial results and cash flow. Our operations are at all times subject to the occurrence of catastrophic events outside our control, ranging from severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and storms, to health epidemics and pandemics, to acts of war and terrorism. Any such event could cause a serious business disruption that could affect our ability to produce and distribute our products and possibly expose us to third-party liability claims. Additionally, such events could impact our suppliers, in which event energy and raw materials may be unavailable to us, and our customers, who may be unable to purchase or accept our products and services. Any such occurrence could have a negative impact on our operations and financial condition. Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and (iv) develop, manufacture, and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Trading in our common stock is limited and the price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility. Our common stock has historically been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board® under the ticker symbol “INIS.OB.”. The market for our securities is limited, the price of our stock is volatile, and the risk to investors in our common stock is greater than the risk associated with stock trading on other markets. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of their shares. This could cause our stock price to decline. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the near future. Consequently, an investor in our common stock can only achieve a return on its investment in us if the market price of our common stock appreciates. We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, which will dilute your interest in us. As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately 21,370,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of vested stock options outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $0.13 per share. An additional 8,640,989 shares are reserved for issuance under our 2006 Equity Incentive and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of December 31, 2011. We expect to issue additional options to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors, and may issue additional shares to raise capital to fund design, licensing and construction of a uranium de-conversion plant. Any such issuances will have the effect of further diluting the interest of the holders of our securities. Also outstanding as of December 31, 2011, are Series F warrants for the issuance of 7,700,000 shares of common stock, , Series H Warrants for the issuance of 7,714,451 shares of common stock, and Series I Warrants for the issuance of 18,142,333 shares of common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We are a smaller reporting company, as defined by Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, and therefore, are not required to provide the information required by this item. 15 