Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in shares of the Company’s common stock involves certain risks. The following risks and other information in this report or incorporated in this report by reference, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” incorporated by reference in this report, should be carefully considered in the evaluation of the Company before investing in shares of its common stock. These risks are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect the Company’s business and operation. This report is qualified in its entirety by all these risk factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our Profitability is Dependent on Our Banking Activities. Because the Company is a bank holding company, its profitability is directly attributable to the success of the Bank. The Company’s banking activities compete with other banking institutions on the basis of service, convenience and, to some extent, price. Due in part to both regulatory changes and consumer demands, banks have experienced increased competition from other financial entities offering similar products and services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations is expected to continue to increase. The Company relies on the profitability of the Bank and dividends received from the Bank for payment of its operating expenses and satisfaction of its obligations. As is the case with other similarly situated financial institutions, the profitability of the Bank, and therefore the Company, will be subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of funds, changes in the prime lending rate and other interest rates, changes in economic conditions in general and, because of the location of most of its banking offices, changes in economic conditions in Arkansas in particular. We Depend on Key Personnel for Our Success. The Company’s operating results and ability to adequately manage its growth and minimize loan and lease losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of its current executive officers and other key personnel. The Company has an experienced management team that the Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing the Bank. However, losses of or changes in its current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt the Company’s business and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in retaining its current executive officers or other key personnel. Our Operations are Significantly Affected by Interest Rate Levels. The Company’s profitability is dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans, leases and investment securities and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. The Company is affected by changes in general interest rate levels and changes in the differential between short-term and long-term interest rates, both of which are beyond its control. Interest rate risk can result from mismatches between the dollar amount of repricing or maturing assets and liabilities, as well as from mismatches in the timing and rate at which assets and liabilities reprice. Although the Company has implemented strategies it believes will reduce the potential effects on its results of operation of changes in interest rates, these strategies may not always be successful. In addition, any substantial and prolonged increase in market interest rates could reduce loan and lease demand or adversely affect the ability of borrowers or lessees to repay outstanding loans and leases by increasing credit costs. Any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 13 Table of Contents Our Business Depends on the Condition of the Local and Regional Economies Where We Operate. A substantial majority of the Company’s business is located in Arkansas. As a result the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by changes in the Arkansas economy. An economic recession or other adverse economic conditions in Arkansas may result in an increase in non-payment of loans and leases and a decrease in collateral value, and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our Business May Suffer if There are Significant Declines in the Value of Real Estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for the Company’s loan and lease portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of its loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, the Company may not be able to realize the amount of security anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s provision for loan and lease losses and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If We Do Not Properly Manage Our Credit Risk, Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed. There are substantial risks inherent in making any loan or lease, including – • risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions; • risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers; • risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral; and • the risk of non-payment of loans and leases. Although the Company attempts to minimize its credit risk through prudent loan and lease underwriting procedures and by monitoring concentrations of its loans and leases, there can be no assurance that these underwriting and monitoring procedures will reduce these risks. Moreover, as the Company expands into new markets, credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures may need to be adapted to local conditions. The inability of the Company to properly manage its credit risk could have an adverse impact on its provision for loan and lease losses and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We Could Experience Deficiencies in Our Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. Experience in the banking industry indicates that some portion of the Company’s loans and leases may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. Loan and lease losses occur for many reasons beyond the control of the Company. Although the Company believes that it maintains its allowance for loan and lease losses at a level adequate to absorb losses in its loan and lease portfolio, estimates of loan and lease losses are subjective and their accuracy may depend on the outcome of future events. The Company may be required to make significant and unanticipated increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses during future periods, which could materially affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Bank regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses. These regulatory authorities may require adjustments to the allowance for loan and lease losses or may require recognition of additional loan and lease losses or charge-offs based upon their own judgment. Any change in the allowance for loan and lease losses or charge-offs required by bank regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Our Recent Results May Not Be Indicative of Our Future Results. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or even grow its business at all. Additionally, in the future the Company may not have the benefit of several factors that have been favorable to the Company’s business in recent periods, such as a generally stable and low interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market, or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition also may impede or restrict the Company’s ability to expand its market presence. To Successfully Implement Our Growth and De Novo Branching Strategy, We Must Significantly Expand Our Operations in Both New and Existing Markets. The Company intends to continue the expansion and development of its business by pursuing its growth and de novo branching strategy. Accordingly, the Company’s growth prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by banking companies pursuing significant growth strategies. In order to successfully execute its growth and de novo branching strategy, the Company must, among other things: • identify and expand into suitable markets; • build a substantial customer base; • maintain credit quality; • attract sufficient deposits to fund anticipated loan and lease growth; • attract and retain qualified bank management and staff; • identify and acquire suitable sites for new banking offices; and • maintain adequate regulatory capital. In addition to the foregoing factors, there are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year. Therefore, any new branches the Company opens can be expected to negatively affect its operating results until those branches reach a size at which they become profitable. The Company could also experience an increase in expenses if it encounters delays in opening any new branches. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurances that any new branches it opens will be successful, even after they have become established. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively and continue to successfully implement its de novo branching strategy, the Company’s business, future prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We Face Strong Competition in Our Markets. Competition among financial institutions in many of the Company’s banking markets is intense. The Company competes with other financial and bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerages, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders and other financial institutions. Many of these competitors have an advantage over the Company through substantially greater financial resources, lending limits and larger branch networks, and are able to offer a broader range of products and services. Other competitors, though smaller than the Company, are privately held and thus benefit from greater flexibility in adopting or modifying growth or operational strategies than the Company. If the Company fails to compete effectively for deposit, loan and lease and other banking customers in the Company’s markets, the Company could lose substantial market share, suffer a slower or no growth rate and its financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversly affected. Our Internal Operations are Subject to a Number of Risks. The Company is subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against many of these occurrences and maintains insurance 15 Table of Contents coverage for risks that are insurable. However, should an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The future success of the Company will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The computer systems and network infrastructure in use by the Company could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company’s operations are dependent upon the ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure of the Company’s computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in operations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, the Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Computer break-ins and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company’s computer systems and network, which may result in significant liability to the Company, as well as deter potential customers. Although the Company, with the help of third-party service providers, intends to continue to implement security technology and develop additional operational procedures to prevent damage to its computer systems and network, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, new developments or advances in computer capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography could enable hackers to compromise or breach the security measures used by the Company to protect customer transaction data. The Company’s failure to maintain adequate security over its customers’ personal and transactional information could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future to Continue to Grow, But That Capital May Not Be Available When Needed. Federal and state bank regulators require the Company and the Bank to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. On December 31, 2005, the Company’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios were well above “well capitalized” levels under bank regulatory guidelines. However, the Company’s business strategy calls for the Company to continue to grow in its existing banking markets (internally and through opening additional offices) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. Growth in earning assets resulting from internal expansion and new banking offices at rates in excess of the rate at which the Company’s capital is increased through retained earnings will reduce both the Company’s and the Bank’s capital ratios unless the Company and the Bank continue to increase their capital. If the Company’s or the Bank’s capital ratios fell below “well capitalized” levels, the FDIC deposit insurance assessment rate would increase until capital is restored and maintained at a “well capitalized” level. A higher assessment rate would cause an increase in the assessments paid to the FDIC for deposit insurance, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. If, in the future, the Company needs to increase its capital to fund additional growth or satisfy regulatory requirements, its ability to raise that additional capital will depend on conditions at that time in the capital markets that are outside the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to it or at all. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, the Company’s ability to expand its operations through internal growth could be impaired. (The remainder of this page intentionally left blank) 16 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INDUSTRY We are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation That Could Limit or Restrict Our Activities and Adversely Impact Our Operations. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, interest rates charged for loans and leases, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of banking offices. The Company and the Bank are also subject to capital guidelines established by regulators which require maintenance of adequate capital to support growth. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC’s Bank Insurance Fund and Savings Association Insurance Fund rather than shareholders. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing the Company’s external audit and maintaining its internal controls. Government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, and the increasing cost to the Company of complying with regulatory requirements could adversely affect its results of operations. New Legislative and Regulatory Proposals May Affect Our Operations and Growth. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of, and federal insurance premiums paid by, banks and other financial institutions and companies that control financial institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of any major changes in these laws and regulations in the future and the impact such changes might have on the Company or the Bank are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting and financial reporting requirements applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies, the IRS and other appropriate authorities. The likelihood and impact of any future changes in these accounting and financial reporting requirements and the impact these changes might have on the Company or the Bank are impossible to determine at this time. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STOCK Our Stock Price is Affected by a Variety of Factors, Many of Which are Outside of Our Control. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell shares of the Company’s common stock at times and prices they find attractive. The Company’s common stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. Our Stock Trading Volume May Not Provide Adequate Liquidity for Investors. Although shares of the Company’s common stock are listed for trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the daily average trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of the Company’s common stock. 17 Table of Contents Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in its value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report, and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any other company. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. (The remainder of this page intentionally left blank) 18 Table of Contents 