Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the risk factors that Wellsford believes are material to Wellsford at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing Wellsford and there may be additional matters that Wellsford is unaware of or that Wellsford currently considers immaterial. All of these could adversely affect Wellsford’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Furthermore, if the proposed merger is consummated, Wellsford will terminate the Plan and, although Wellsford will continue with its residential development and sales activities related to its real estate assets over a period of years, Reis’s business will be the primary business activity of the post-merger company. As a result, the risks described below under “— Risk Factors Relating to Reis” and “— Risk Factors Relating to the Merger” are the most significant risks to the post-merger company if the merger is consummated. Risk Factors Relating to Wellsford Wellsford is subject to the risks that affect real estate investors and developers generally. The value of Wellsford’s real estate assets are subject to certain risks applicable to Wellsford’s assets and inherent in the real estate industry which, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on Wellsford’s business, results of operations and financial condition and include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economies where Wellsford’s properties are located; • macroeconomic as well as specific regional and local market conditions; • competition from other for-sale housing developments; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduction in demand for, residential homes and condominium units; • increased operating and construction costs, including insurance premiums, utilities, building materials, labor and real estate taxes; • increases in interest rates; and • cost of complying with environmental, zoning, and other laws. Wellsford is subject to risks associated with construction and development. Wellsford currently intends to continue to develop residential projects at Gold Peak, East Lyme and Claverack through the subdivision, construction, and sale of condominium units, single family homes or lots. Alternatively, or in combination, Wellsford may sell the East Lyme project to another developer and sell its joint venture interest in Claverack to its partner in that venture, thus foregoing potential development profits 14 Table of Contents associated with these properties. Wellsford’s development and construction activities give rise to additional risks, which, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition and include: • the possibility that Wellsford may discontinue development opportunities after expending significant resources to determine feasibility, to perform infrastructure construction, or to build, in certain instances; • the possibility that Wellsford may not obtain an increased number of building lots for the Claverack project, which would affect the number of single family homes Wellsford can build and sell; • the possibility that Wellsford may not obtain construction financing on reasonable terms and conditions, or be able to refinance or extend existing financing on similar terms; • the possibility that development, construction, and the sale of Wellsford projects, may not be completed on schedule resulting in increased debt service expense, construction costs and general and administrative expenses; • the inability to obtain, or costly delays in obtaining, zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could delay or prevent commencement of development activities or delay completion of such activities; • the fact that properties under development or acquired for development usually generate little or no cash flow until completion of development and sale of a significant number of homes or condominium units and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion and until such homes or condominium units are sold; • increases in the cost of construction materials; and • the inability to obtain proceeds from borrowings on terms financially advantageous to Wellsford or to raise alternate equity capital. Wellsford’s development and construction activities expose it to risks associated with the sale of residential units. Risks associated with the sale of residential properties which, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on Wellsford’s business, results of operations and financial condition and include: • lack of demand by prospective buyers; • inability to find qualified buyers; • inability of buyers to obtain satisfactory financing; • the inability to close on sales of properties under contract; and • dissatisfaction by purchasers with the homes purchased from Wellsford, which may result in remediation costs or warranty expenses. • dissatisfaction by homeowners associations with the construction of condominiums, homes and amenities by Wellsford in a condominium and subdivision development which may result in remediation costs or warranty expenses. Wellsford could change its intent with regard to the development and sale of its residential development projects. Wellsford currently intends to continue to develop residential projects at Gold Peak, East Lyme and Claverack through the subdivision, construction, and sale of condominium units, single family homes or lots. However, if a determination were made by Wellsford’s board of directors to accelerate the sale of certain or all of these projects in a bulk disposition, as a result of a prolonged period of negative market factors related to construction and development or the inability to sell residential units (as described immediately above), 15 Table of Contents there could be a material adverse effect on Wellsford’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Accelerated bulk dispositions are not indicative of Wellsford’s current intent with respect to these assets and are not reflected in the set of assumptions that Wellsford’s senior management used in its determination of net assets in liquidation during the period November 18, 2005 through December 31, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2006. Wellsford may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet its debt service obligations. Wellsford’s ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on its indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, political, business, and other factors. Wellsford believes that cash generated by its business will be sufficient to enable Wellsford to make its debt payments as they become due. However, if Wellsford’s business does not generate sufficient cash flow, or future borrowings are not available in an amount sufficient to enable Wellsford to service its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs, Wellsford may not be able to fulfill its debt service obligations. Some of Wellsford’s development projects have incurred, and may incur, debt, in which case a third party lender would be entitled to cash flow generated by such investments until that debt is repaid. As a result of its borrowings, Wellsford would be subject to certain risks normally associated with debt financing which, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on Wellsford’s business, results of operations and financial condition, including the risk that cash flow from sales of homes, condominium units or lots will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that existing debt will not be able to be refinanced, the risk that the terms of such refinancings will not be as favorable to Wellsford. In addition, Wellsford may not be able to obtain modifications to extend the terms of existing financing and/or increase borrowing capacity on existing construction loans. Such borrowings will increase the risk of loss on an investment which utilizes borrowings. If Wellsford defaults on secured indebtedness, the lender may foreclose and Wellsford could lose its entire investment in the security for such loan. The restrictive covenants associated with Wellsford’s outstanding indebtedness under construction and development loans may limit Wellsford’s ability to operate its business. Wellsford’s debt obligations require Wellsford to comply with a number of financial and other covenants on an ongoing basis. Some of those obligations may restrict Wellsford’s ability to incur additional debt and engage in certain transactions and make certain types of investments and take other actions. In other cases, failure to comply with covenants may limit Wellsford’s ability to borrow funds or cause a default under one or more of its then existing loans, possibly requiring Wellsford to either prepay a portion of the outstanding principal or provide additional cash collateral. Increases in interest rates could materially increase Wellsford’s interest expense or could reduce Wellsford’s revenues. As of December 31, 2006, Wellsford had approximately $20,129,000 of variable rate debt outstanding. Wellsford may incur additional variable rate indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will Wellsford’s interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Wellsford has limited its exposure to existing variable rate debt by purchasing interest rate caps. The expiration dates of these interest rate caps occur before the estimated completion dates of construction. Based on the December 31, 2006 debt balances and the notional amount of the interest rate caps, a 1% increase in the base interest rates of Wellsford’s variable rate debt would result in approximately $32,000 of additional interest being incurred on an annualized basis. The effect of a 1% increase in the base interest rates of Wellsford’s variable rate debt, without considering the interest rate caps, would result in approximately $201,000 of additional interest being incurred on an annualized basis. Generally, in both instances, any increase in interest incurred would primarily result in additional interest being capitalized into the basis of the respective development project. 16 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could reduce Wellsford’s revenue and result in lost sales or sales of lower priced condominiums and homes as it becomes more expensive for buyers to obtain financing. Neither Wellsford’s organizational documents nor those of the entities in which it invested contain any limitation on the amount of debt that may be incurred. Accordingly, Wellsford and such entities could incur significant amounts of debt, resulting in increases in debt service payments which could increase the risk of default on indebtedness. The market for construction and development of real estate is highly competitive. Developers and builders compete for, among other things, desirable properties, financing, raw materials, and skilled labor. Wellsford competes with large homebuilding companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing, and sales resources than Wellsford does, and with smaller local builders. The consolidation of some homebuilding companies may create additional competitors that have greater financial, marketing, and sales resources than Wellsford does and thus are able to compete more effectively against Wellsford. In addition, there may be new entrants in the markets in which Wellsford currently conducts business. Property ownership through partnerships and joint ventures generally limits Wellsford’s control of those investments and entails other risks. Wellsford has co-invested with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities including ventures where decisions require shared approval with third parties. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks that would not be present were a third party not involved, including: the possibility that Wellsford’s partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions; that such partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with Wellsford’s business interests or goals; that such partners or co-venturers may be in a position to take action contrary to Wellsford’s instructions, requests, policies or objectives; that Wellsford cannot agree with its partners on the sale of properties; and that Wellsford will not be able to exercise sole decision-making authority. In addition, Wellsford may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of third-party partners or co-venturers. Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverage may affect Wellsford’s results of operations and increase its potential exposure to liability. Partially as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, the cost of insurance has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased, and the availability of insurance has diminished. Significant increases in Wellsford’s cost of insurance coverage or significant limitations on coverage could have a material adverse effect on Wellsford’s business, financial condition, and results of operations from such increased costs or from liability for significant uninsurable or underinsured claims. In addition, there are some risks of loss for which Wellsford may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes, and other geologic events may not be insurable, and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism, wars, or acts of God may not be economically insurable. A material uninsured loss could adversely affect Wellsford’s business, results of operations and financial condition and Wellsford may nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to that property or asset. Wellsford is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and Wellsford’s properties may have environmental or other contamination. Wellsford is subject to various Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of public health and the environment. These laws may impose liability on property owners or operators for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on real property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, such substances may adversely affect the value of a property, as well as Wellsford’s ability to sell the property or individual condominium units or 17 Table of Contents apartments, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Costs associated with the foregoing could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. Environmental claims are generally not covered by Wellsford’s insurance programs. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site’s location, its environmental condition, and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause Wellsford to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could negatively affect Wellsford’s results of operations. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. The one environmental condition of which Wellsford is aware relates to a portion of the East Lyme project. This land requires remediation of pesticides used on the property when it was an apple orchard at a cost of approximately $1,000,000. Remediation costs were considered in evaluating the net realizable value of the property at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Wellsford’s properties are subject to various Federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements and the Americans with Disabilities Act. If Wellsford fails to comply with regulatory requirements, Wellsford could incur fines or be subject to private damage awards. Compliance with requirements may require significant unanticipated expenditures by Wellsford. Such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on Wellsford’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Wellsford’s governing documents and Maryland law contain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of Wellsford’s common stock. Wellsford’s articles of amendment and restatement contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of Wellsford by merger, tender offer, proxy contest, or removal of incumbent management without the approval of Wellsford’s board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of Wellsford even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of its stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of Wellsford’s common stock. Wellsford’s governing documents: • provide for a classified board of directors, which could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control; and • authorize the issuance of blank check stock that could be issued by Wellsford’s board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares or an affiliate thereof are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Wellsford’s board of directors has exempted from the Maryland statute any business combinations with Jeffrey Lynford and Edward Lowenthal or any of their affiliates or any other person acting in concert or as a group with any of such persons and, consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between such persons and Wellsford. Risk Factors Relating to the Merger The merger represents a significant change in strategy for Wellsford which may be unsuccessful. If the proposed merger is consummated, Wellsford will terminate the Plan, but will continue with its residential development and sales activities related to its real estate assets over a period of years. Reis’s business will be the primary business activity after the merger is consummated. As a result, Wellsford will 18 Table of Contents change its basis of accounting from a liquidation basis to a going-concern basis. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their estimated net realization value and liabilities are stated at their estimated settlement amounts. Wellsford’s assets and liabilities will be presented on a going concern basis of accounting with assets being reported at the lower of historical cost, as adjusted for activity, or market value as of the date of termination of the Plan. Assuming the merger is consummated, this change in strategy may be unsuccessful and may result in lower returns to Wellsford stockholders than they may have received under the Plan, subjecting the Wellsford stockholders to the risk factors associated with Reis and the potential volatility and risks of a growth-oriented provider of commercial real estate information. The termination of the Plan would result in the retention by the combined entity of Wellsford’s cash balances (after the payment of transaction costs and the cash portion of the merger consideration that is not being funded by the Bank Loan) and subsequent cash flow from the sales of residential development assets, after operating costs, for working capital and re-investment purposes. Such cash would not be distributed to stockholders in the form of a liquidating distribution as had been contemplated under the Plan. A portion of the December 14, 2005 cash distribution by Wellsford to its stockholders will be recharacterized as taxable dividend income as a result of the termination of the Plan. Wellsford has determined that, as a consequence of the consummation of the proposed merger and termination of the Plan, it will be necessary to recharacterize a portion of the December 14, 2005 cash distribution of $14.00 per share from what may have been characterized as a return of capital for Wellsford stockholders at that time to taxable dividend income. Wellsford estimates that $1.15 of the $14.00 per share cash distribution will be recharacterized as taxable dividend income. Wellsford may be subject to litigation as a result of terminating the Plan. Historically, extraordinary corporate actions, such as terminating the Plan, have occasionally led to securities class action lawsuits being filed against a company. As of March 27, 2007, Wellsford was not aware of any pending securities class action lawsuits relating to the Plan or its prospective termination. However, in the event such litigation should occur, it is likely to be expensive and, even if Wellsford ultimately prevails, the process will be time consuming and will divert management’s attention from integrating Wellsford and Reis and otherwise operating the business. Wellsford cannot predict the outcome or the amount of expenses and damages but the amounts could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Wellsford’s common stock is thinly traded and there may be little or no liquidity for the shares of Wellsford common stock to be issued in connection with the proposed merger. Historically, Wellsford’s common stock has been thinly traded and an active trading market for Wellsford common stock may not develop after the merger. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to sell his or her shares of common stock. In view of the additional shares that will become eligible for sale in the public market upon consummation of the merger, investors trying to sell their shares may find it difficult to find buyers for their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Although Wellsford has agreed in the merger agreement to use reasonable best efforts to cause its common stock to be approved for listing on NASDAQ as promptly as practicable after the merger, there can be no guarantee that Wellsford will meet NASDAQ’s initial listing requirements and that its shares will be accepted for such listing or that the shares will be more actively traded on NASDAQ than they are on the AMEX. Furthermore, if the Wellsford board of directors determines to effect a reverse stock split of the Wellsford common stock following the consummation of the merger, the liquidity of Wellsford common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares that would be outstanding after the reverse stock split. 19 Table of Contents Failure to consummate the merger could negatively impact the stock price of Wellsford, because of, among other things, the disruption in the market that would occur as a result of uncertainties relating to a failure to consummate the merger and resulting in Wellsford incurring significant costs without the benefit of the merger. The closing sales price per share of Wellsford common stock on the AMEX on October 10, 2006, the date immediately before the public announcement of the signing of the merger agreement, was $7.43 per share and on December 31, 2006, it was $7.52. If the proposed merger is not consummated, the price of Wellsford common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of that stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be consummated and that the related benefits will be realized, or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in Wellsford’s business. In addition, Wellsford will have incurred significant costs and expenses related to the merger without realizing any of the expected benefit of having consummated the merger. If Wellsford’s stockholders do not approve the issuance of Wellsford common stock in connection with the merger, Wellsford will be required to pay certain of Reis’s expenses. The merger agreement and the rules of the AMEX require Wellsford to obtain stockholder approval of the issuance of Wellsford common stock as part of the merger consideration. The merger agreement also provides for the payment by Wellsford of certain of Reis’s expenses in connection with obtaining the Bank Loan if Wellsford or Reis terminate the merger agreement as a result of Wellsford’s failure to obtain stockholder approval. Wellsford currently estimates that its share of the expenses will be approximately $450,000. If the post-merger company does not realize the anticipated benefits from the merger, Wellsford stockholders may not realize a benefit from the merger commensurate with the ownership dilution they will experience in connection with the merger. As a result of the merger, outstanding shares of Reis common stock and Reis preferred stock will be automatically converted into the right to receive shares of Wellsford common stock and cash upon the consummation of the merger. Accordingly, Wellsford stockholders who, prior to the consummation of the merger owned 100% of the outstanding Wellsford common stock, will own approximately 62% of the outstanding shares of Wellsford immediately following the consummation of the merger. Consequently, if Wellsford is unable to realize the strategic and financial benefits currently anticipated from the merger, Wellsford and Reis stockholders will have experienced substantial dilution of their ownership interest without receiving any commensurate benefit. In addition, this dilution could reduce the market price of Wellsford common stock. There can be no assurance that the combined company will achieve revenue growth, profitability and cost savings from the merger. The post-merger company’s ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards of Wellsford will be subject to limitation and, under certain circumstances, may be eliminated. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. In general, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on a corporation’s ability to use its net operating losses, or NOLs, from taxable years or periods ending on or before the date of an ownership change to offset U.S. Federal taxable income in any post-change year. Wellsford will likely experience an ownership change as a result of the merger, in which case the combined company will be subject to the limitation under Section 382 with respect to pre-change NOLs of Wellsford. Section 382 imposes significant limitations of the use of Wellsford’s NOL carryforwards. During 2005 Wellsford experienced an ownership change under Section 382. That change resulted in an annual limitation of approximately $4,700,000. It is expected that the merger will result in another ownership change and that the annual limitation on Wellsford’s use of NOLs through 2024 will, as a result of such ownership change, be reduced to approximately $2,000,000 per year (based on current interest rates and market prices for Wellsford common stock). 20 Table of Contents Moreover, if a corporation experiences an ownership change and does not satisfy the “continuity of business enterprise” requirement (which generally requires that the corporation continue its historic business or use a significant portion of its historic business assets in a business for the two-year period beginning on the date of the ownership change), it cannot, subject to certain exceptions, use any NOL from a pre-change period to offset taxable income in post-change years. Although there can be no assurance that this requirement will be met with respect to any ownership change of Wellsford, including the merger with Reis, Wellsford’s management believes, based on its present business plan which contemplates the continuation of its historic real estate business activities, that Wellsford will satisfy this requirement. Wellsford has NOL carryforwards, for Federal income tax purposes, resulting from Wellsford’s merger with Value Property Trust in 1998 and its operating losses in 2004 and 2006. The NOLs aggregated approximately $58,000,000 at December 31, 2006, and expire in the years 2007 through 2026. Approximately $22,100,000 of Wellsford’s NOLs expire in 2007 and 2008, which Wellsford does not expect to be able to utilize, even after the merger with Reis. Additionally, assuming Wellsford is able to satisfy the continuity of business enterprise requirement described above, Wellsford expects that it could only potentially utilize $30,200,000 of its remaining NOLs existing at December 31, 2006, based on the new $2,000,000 annual limitations and expirations. The actual ability to utilize the tax benefit of any existing NOLs as well as of the tax benefits of the tax basis of owned assets in excess of the liquidation value, will be subject to future facts and circumstances with respect to meeting the above described “continuity of business enterprise” requirements at the time NOLs are being utilized on a tax return and when there are realized losses on sales of assets. If the post-merger company is not able to successfully identify or integrate future acquisitions, its business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and future acquisitions may divert its management’s attention and consume significant resources. The post-merger company may in the future attempt to further expand its markets and services in part through acquisitions of other complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and Wellsford cannot assure you that future acquisitions, if any, will be successful. The successful execution of any future acquisition strategy will depend on its ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm the combined company’s business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • entry into markets in which the combined company has limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; • dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • reduction or replacement of the sales of existing services by sales of products or services from acquired lines of business; • responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; • inability to utilize Federal, state, and local net operating loss carryforwards; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. In addition, if the combined company finances or otherwise completes acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders’ ownership may be diluted. 21 Table of Contents Following the consummation of the merger, Wellsford’s executive officers and directors will own a significant percentage of Wellsford’s stock and will continue to have significant control of the combined company’s management and affairs, and they may take actions which adversely affect the trading price of Wellsford’s common stock. Immediately following the consummation of the merger, the executive officers and directors of Wellsford, and entities that are affiliated with them, will beneficially own, depending upon the proportion of cash and share consideration that Lloyd Lynford and Jonathan Garfield receive in the merger, between approximately 18% and 25% of Wellsford’s outstanding common stock. The ownership percentage, when including options to purchase shares of Wellsford common stock held by Wellsford’s executive officers and directors, increases to between approximately 27% and 33% of Wellsford’s expected outstanding common stock and stock options. Following consummation of the merger, Lloyd Lynford and Mr. Garfield will own between approximately 11% and 18% of Wellsford’s expected outstanding common stock, or between approximately 11% and 17% of Wellsford’s expected outstanding common stock and options to purchase shares of Wellsford common stock. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of Wellsford’s common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies where management holds a significant percentage of the voting power. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving the combined company, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a change of control would benefit the combined company’s stockholders other than the group of directors and officers described above. The Bank Loan documents contain financial and operating restrictions that limit Reis’s access to credit. If, following the consummation of the merger, Reis fails to comply with the covenants in the Bank Loan documents, Reis may be required to repay the indebtedness on an accelerated basis. Provisions in the Bank Loan impose restrictions on Reis’s ability, following the merger, to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • change its fiscal year end; • amend its organizational documents; • pay dividends and make distributions; • redeem or repurchase outstanding equity; • make certain investments; • create liens; • enter into transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • undergo a change of control; and • make certain fundamental changes, including engaging in a merger or consolidation. The credit agreement also contains other customary covenants, including covenants which will require Reis to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. Reis may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future and failure to do so may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause Reis to be unable to borrow under the Bank Loan documents. Furthermore, certain events related to Wellsford, such as the delisting of Wellsford from a national stock exchange or the voluntary or involuntary filing by Wellsford under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law (which is not stayed or dismissed within certain time periods), will cause an event of default. In addition, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, which would require Reis to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, Reis may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of this indebtedness is accelerated, Reis may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the 22 Table of Contents accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to Reis or to Wellsford, or at all. Furthermore, the Bank Loan is secured by Reis’s assets and, therefore, these assets will not be available to secure additional credit. The success of the post-merger company depends on retaining key executive officers and personnel and attracting and retaining capable management and operating personnel. Jeffrey H. Lynford has been Chairman of Wellsford’s board of directors since its formation in 1997 and has been Wellsford’s President and Chief Executive Officer since April 1, 2002. Jeffrey Lynford’s employment agreement with Wellsford expires on December 31, 2007. Before the effective time of the merger, it is anticipated that Wellsford will enter into an amendment to Jeffrey Lynford’s employment agreement such that he will become the executive Chairman of Wellsford after the merger. Wellsford also depends on the services of David M. Strong, its Senior Vice President for Development, specifically with respect to the Gold Peak project. Mr. Strong’s employment agreement with Wellsford also expires on December 31, 2007. The loss of the services of either Jeffrey Lynford or Mr. Strong could have a material adverse effect on Wellsford’s business, operations, and financial condition, including the terms and conditions under which Wellsford conducts its residential development and sales activities related to its assets and continued availability of construction loans. Furthermore, Jeffrey Lynford’s contract provides that since Wellsford has disposed of all or substantially all of two of its business units, he is no longer required to devote substantially all of his time, attention and energies during business hours to Wellsford’s business activities. He may now perform services for and engage in business activities with other persons so long as such services and activities do not prevent him from fulfilling his fiduciary responsibilities to Wellsford. Wellsford’s business operations could be negatively impacted if it is unable to enter into amended or new employment agreements in order to retain the services of Jeffrey Lynford and Mr. Strong, as well as other key personnel, or hire suitable replacements. Reis’s business plan was developed, in large part, by its senior-level officers, including Reis’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Lloyd Lynford, Executive Vice President, Jonathan Garfield, and Chief Operating Officer, William Sander. The continued implementation and development of Reis’s business plan, and the business of the combined company after the merger, requires their skills and knowledge. Reis may not be able to offset the impact of the loss of the services of Lloyd Lynford, Mr. Garfield, Mr. Sander or other key officers or employees because its business requires skilled management, as well as technical, product and technology, and sales and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in the information industry, and the loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees could have a material adverse impact on Reis and the combined company after the merger. Although Wellsford and Reis each use various incentive programs to retain and attract key personnel, these measures may not be sufficient to either attract or retain, as applicable, the personnel required to ensure the success of the combined company. A reverse stock split of Wellsford common stock following the consummation of the merger may have an adverse effect on Wellsford’s stock price, market capitalization and liquidity. Following the consummation of the merger, Wellsford’s board of directors may determine to effect a reverse stock split of the Wellsford common stock. All decisions regarding the declaration of a reverse stock split will be at the discretion of Wellsford’s board of directors and will be evaluated from time to time by the board of directors in light of the price per share of Wellsford common stock, the number of shares of Wellsford common stock outstanding, applicable AMEX or NASDAQ rules, applicable law and other factors that Wellsford’s board of directors deems relevant. If the board of directors determines to effect a reverse stock split, there can be no assurance that the total market capitalization of Wellsford common stock after the reverse stock split will be equal to or greater than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split or that the per share market price of Wellsford common stock following the reverse stock split will either exceed or remain higher than the current per share market price. There can be no assurance that the market price per share of Wellsford common stock after a reverse stock split will rise or remain constant in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares of Wellsford common stock outstanding before the reverse stock split. For example, based on the closing market price of Wellsford common stock on December 31, 2006 of $7.52 per share, if the board of directors decided to implement 23 Table of Contents a one-for-two reverse stock split, there can be no assurance that the post-split market price of Wellsford common stock would be $15.04 per share or greater. In many cases, the total market capitalization of a company following a reverse stock split is lower than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split. While the board of directors believes that a higher stock price may help generate investor interest, there can be no assurance that a reverse stock split will result in a per share price that will attract institutional investors and brokers. The market price of Wellsford common stock will also be based on Wellsford’s performance and other factors, some of which are unrelated to the number of shares outstanding. However, if a reverse stock split is affected and the market price of Wellsford common stock declines, the percentage decline as an absolute number and as a percentage of Wellsford’s overall market capitalization may be greater than would occur in the absence of a reverse stock split. Furthermore, the liquidity of Wellsford common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares that would be outstanding after the reverse stock split. Risk Factors Relating to Reis Reis must continue to attract and retain customers, and any failure to increase the number of customers or retain existing customers would harm Reis’s business. Reis’s customers include subscribers to its flagship product, Reis Subscriber Edition, or Reis SE. In addition to subscribers who typically pay for their annual service in advance, customers also include those who purchase Reis’s service on an ad hoc and pay as you go basis. Either category of customer may decide not to continue to use Reis SE because of budget or other competitive reasons. If subscribers choose not to renew their contracts or decrease their use of Reis’s information, or if Reis is unable to attract new subscribers, its revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. To grow the business, Reis must convince prospective subscribers and existing customers to expand their use of Reis SE and Reis’s other products. Prospective customers may not be familiar with Reis’s service and may be accustomed to using other methods of conducting commercial real estate market research and property valuations. There can be no assurance that it will be successful in continuing to acquire additional customers. Moreover, it is difficult to estimate the total number of active, prospective customers in the U.S. during any given period. As a result, Reis does not know the extent to which it has penetrated this market. If Reis reaches the point at which it has attempted to sell Reis’s services to a significant majority of commercial real estate professionals in the U.S., the ability to increase its customer base could be limited. Reis’s revenues are concentrated among certain key customers. Reis has approximately 600 customers, but derives approximately 30% of its revenues from 25 customers. If Reis were to experience a reduction or loss of business from many of its 25 largest customers, it could have a material adverse effect on Reis’s revenues and, depending on the significance of the loss, its financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Reis may be unable to compete successfully with its current or future competitors. Reis has competition from both local companies that prepare commercial real estate research with respect to their specific geographic areas and national companies that prepare national commercial real estate research. Specifically, certain of Reis’s products compete with those of Torto Wheaton, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CB Richard Ellis, Property and Portfolio Research, a subsidiary of the Daily Mail Group, and Costar Group, Inc. New competitors, as well as Reis’s traditional competitors, could launch new websites quickly and inexpensively as Internet commerce has few barriers to entry. Such online competition could negatively impact Reis’s revenues and profitability. Reis may not be able to sustain its revenue growth and future financial performance may be difficult to assess. Although Reis was formed it 1980, it first offered services online in 1996. Profitable since fiscal 2004, Reis experienced losses from the introduction of online service in 1996 through fiscal 2003. Reis may incur 24 Table of Contents additional expenses, such as marketing and product development expenses, with the expectation that revenues will grow in the future. However, such expectations may not be realized. Reis must continue to obtain information from multiple sources. The quality of Reis SE depends substantially on information provided by a large number of commercial real estate brokers, agents, and property owners. If these sources choose not to continue providing information to Reis, its product could be negatively affected, potentially resulting in an increase in customer cancellation and a failure to acquire new customers. Reis’s revenues, expenses and operating results could be affected by general economic conditions or by changes in commercial real estate markets, which are cyclical. Reis’s business is sensitive to trends in the general economy and trends in local, regional and national commercial real estate markets, which are unpredictable. Therefore, operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader commercial real estate industry, may be subject to significant fluctuations. A number of factors could have an effect on Reis’s revenues, expenses, operating results or cash flows, such as: • periods of economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or locally; • inflation; • flows of capital into or out of real estate investment in the U.S. or various regions of the U.S.; • changes in levels of rent or appreciation of asset values; • changing interest rates; • tax and accounting policies; • the cost of capital; • costs of construction; • increased unemployment; • lower consumer confidence; • lower wage and salary levels; • war, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; or • the public perception that any of these conditions may occur. If Reis’s customers choose not to use Reis SE because of economic conditions, and Reis is not successful at attracting new customers, its revenues, expenses, operating results, cash flows or stock price could be negatively affected. A primary source of new customers for Reis is the commercial real estate professional community, which may be reluctant to adopt Reis’s products and services. Reis’s success has depended on its ability to convince commercial real estate professionals that Reis SE is superior to other traditional methods of conducting commercial real estate market research and valuation. Many commercial real estate professionals are used to conducting market research and valuation through the traditional means of relying on a network of contacts in a local market. Commercial real estate professionals may prefer to continue to use traditional methods or may be slow to adopt Reis’s products and services. If Reis is unable to continue to persuade commercial real estate professionals that Reis SE is a superior alternative to traditional means of conducting market research and valuation, operating results and profitability may be negatively affected. 25 Table of Contents Reis’s success depends on its ability to introduce new or upgraded services or products. To continue to attract new customers to Reis SE, Reis may need to introduce new products or services. Reis may choose to develop new products and services independently or choose to license or otherwise integrate content and data from third parties. The introduction of new products and services could impose costs on Reis’s business and require the use of resources, and there is no guarantee that it will continue to be able to access new content and technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If customers or potential customers do not recognize the value of Reis’s new services or enhancements to existing services, operating results could be negatively affected. Reis may incur significant costs and experience difficulties in developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products. Efforts to enhance and improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of Reis’s existing products and services have inherent risks, and it may not be able to manage these product developments and enhancements successfully or in a cost effective manner. If Reis is unable to continue to develop new or upgraded services or products, then customers may choose not to use its products and services. Reis’s growth would be negatively impacted if it is unable to successfully market and sell any new services or upgrades. If Reis fails to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if customers are reluctant to use products because of privacy concerns, Reis might experience a loss in profitability. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of use on Reis’s website, as part of its customer registration process, Reis collects and uses personally identifiable information. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to Reis’s websites, including theft, alteration, deletion or misappropriation of information, security breaches, computer hackers, viruses or anything else manifesting contaminating or destructive properties, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or Reis’s website to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm its business. Under the laws of certain jurisdictions, if there is a breach of Reis’s computer systems and it knows or suspects that unencrypted personal customer data has been stolen, Reis is required to inform any customers whose data was stolen, which could harm its reputation and business. Reis’s business could be harmed if it is unable to maintain the integrity and reliability of its data. Reis’s success depends on its customers’ confidence in the comprehensiveness, accuracy, and reliability of the data it provides. Reis believes that it takes adequate precautions to safeguard the completeness and accuracy of its data and that the information is generally current, comprehensive and accurate. Nevertheless, data is susceptible to electronic malfeasance including, theft, alteration, deletion, viruses and computer hackers. If Reis cannot maintain the quality of its data, demand for its services could diminish and Reis may be exposed to lawsuits claiming damages resulting from inaccurate data. Reis may be unable to enforce or defend its ownership or use of intellectual property. Reis’s business depends in large measure on the intellectual property utilized in its methodologies, software and database. Reis relies on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, a Federal trademark registration, registered domain names, contracts which include non-disclosure provisions, work-for-hire provisions, and technical security measures to protect its intellectual property rights. However, Reis does not own Federal registrations covering all of its trademarks and copyrightable materials. Reis also does not own any U.S. patents or patent applications. Reis’s business could be significantly harmed if it does not continue to protect its intellectual property. The same would be true if claims are made against Reis alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle, and could require substantial amounts of time and expenditures. 26 Table of Contents If Reis’s website or other services experience system failures or malicious attacks, its customers may be dissatisfied and its operations could be impaired. Reis’s business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of its website. Problems with the website could result in reduced demand for Reis’s services. Furthermore, the software underlying Reis’s services is complex and may contain undetected errors. Despite testing, Reis cannot be certain that errors will not be found in its software. Any errors could result in adverse publicity, impaired use of Reis’s services, loss of revenues, cost increases or legal claims by customers. Additionally, Reis’s services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom it has little control. Interruptions in service could result from the failure of data providers, telecommunications providers, or other third parties, including computer hackers. Reis depends on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. Reis also depends on Internet service providers that provide access to its services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm Reis’s business. Reis’s internal network infrastructure could be disrupted or penetrated, which could materially impact both its ability to provide services and customers’ confidence in services. Reis’s operations depend upon its ability to maintain and protect its computer systems, most of which are redundant and independent systems in separate locations. While Reis believes that its systems are adequate to support operations, its systems may be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, computer viruses, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, acts of war, and other similar events. Although Reis maintains insurance against fires, floods, and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, any damage or disruption could materially impair or prohibit Reis’s ability to provide services, which could significantly impact its business. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate Reis’s network security from time to time. Although it has not experienced any security breaches to date and Reis maintains a firewall, a hacker who penetrates network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in services. Reis might be required to further expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. Reis also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate its network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or anything else manifesting contaminating or destructive properties could expose Reis to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Any of these incidents could materially impact Reis’s ability to provide services as well as materially impact the confidence of its customers in its services, either of which could significantly and adversely impact its business. Reis may be subject to regulation of advertising and customer solicitation or other newly-adopted laws and regulations. As part of Reis’s customer registration process, its customers agree to receive emails and other communications from Reis. However, Reis may be subject to restrictions on its ability to communicate with customers through email and phone calls. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or spam. These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations. In addition, laws or regulations that could harm Reis’s business could be adopted, or reinterpreted so as to affect its activities, by the government of the U.S., state governments, regulatory agencies or by foreign governments or agencies. This could include, for example, laws regulating the source, content or form of information provided on Reis’s website, the information or services it provides or its transmissions over the Internet. Violations or new interpretations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties or damage Reis’s reputation or could increase its costs or make its services less attractive. 27 Table of Contents Reis may be subject to tax audits or other procedures concerning its tax collection policies. Reis does not collect sales or other similar taxes in states other than New York. However, one or more states (other than New York) may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, such as Reis, which engage in online commerce. A successful assertion that Reis should collect sales, use or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services into these states could harm its business. Reis’s revenue, expenses, operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations. Reis’s revenues, expenses, operating results and cash flows have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could negatively affect Reis’s results of operations during that period and future periods. Reis’s revenues, expenses, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors including, among others, those described below: • obtaining new customers and retaining existing customers; • changes in Reis’s marketing or other corporate strategies; • Reis’s introduction of new products and services or changes to existing products and services; • the amount and timing of Reis’s operating expenses and capital expenditures; • costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies; and • other factors outside of Reis’s control. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 