Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in shares of our common stock involves certain risks. The following risks and other information in this report or incorporated in this report by reference, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” should be carefully considered before investing in shares of our common stock. These risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Many of these risks are out of our direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing financial results. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operation. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by all these risk factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our profitability is dependent on our banking activities. Because we are a bank holding company, our profitability is directly attributable to the success of our bank subsidiary. Our banking activities compete with other banking institutions on the basis of service, convenience and price. Due in part to both regulatory changes and consumer demands, banks have experienced increased competition from other entities offering similar products and services. We rely on the profitability of our bank subsidiary and dividends received from our bank subsidiary for payment of our operating expenses, satisfaction of our obligations and payment of dividends. As is the case with other similarly situated financial institutions, our profitability will be subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of funds, changes in the prime lending rate and other interest rates, changes in economic conditions in general and, because of the location of our banking offices, changes in economic conditions in the Southeastern and South Central United States in particular. 20 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel for our success. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan and lease losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our current executive officers and other key personnel. We have an experienced management team that our board of directors believes is capable of managing and growing our business. We do not have employment contracts with our executive officers and, except in limited cases pursuant to recent acquisitions, key personnel. Losses of or changes in our current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt our business and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, our ability to retain our current executive officers and other key personnel may be further impacted by existing and proposed legislation and regulations regarding incentive compensation that is affecting the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our current executive officers or other key personnel, or hiring additional key personnel to assist in executing our growth strategy. Our operations are significantly affected by interest rate levels. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans, leases and investment securities and interest expense paid on deposits, other borrowings and subordinated debentures. Our business is affected by changes in general interest rate levels and changes in the differential between short-term and long-term interest rates, both of which are beyond our control. An increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following an increase in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to increase our loan offering rates, replace loan maturities with new originations, minimize increases on our deposit rates, and maintain an acceptable level and mix of funding. Although we have implemented procedures we believe will reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, these procedures may not always be successful. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest margin, asset quality, loan origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which may affect our net interest income and net interest margin. Changes in the supply of money and credit can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. The FRB’s policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans and leases. Changes in such policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Our business depends on the condition of the local and regional economies where we operate. A large number of our banking offices are located in Arkansas, Texas and other southeastern states. As a result our financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by changes in the Arkansas and Texas economies as well as the economies of other southeastern states. Slowdown in economic activity, deterioration in housing markets or increases in unemployment and under-employment in these areas may have a significant and disproportionate impact on consumer and business confidence and the demand for our products and services, result in an increase in non-payment of loans and leases and a decrease in collateral value, and significantly impact our deposit funding sources. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our business may suffer if there are significant declines in the value of real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for our loan and lease portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, we may not be able to realize the value of security anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our provision for loan and lease losses and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 21 Table of Contents Most of our foreclosed assets are comprised of real estate properties. We carry these properties at their estimated fair values less estimated selling costs. While we believe the carrying values for such assets are reasonable and appropriately reflect current market conditions, there can be no assurance that the values of such assets will not further decline prior to sale or that the amount of proceeds realized upon disposition of foreclosed assets will approximate the carrying value of such assets. If the proceeds from any such dispositions are less than the carrying value of foreclosed assets, we will record a loss on the disposition of such assets, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to environmental liability risks. A significant portion of our loan and lease portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to real properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. Additionally, we have acquired a number of retail banking facilities and other real properties as a result of acquisitions, any of which may contain hazardous or toxic substances. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. We have policies and procedures that require either formal or informal evaluation of environmental risks and liabilities on real property (i) before originating any loan or foreclosure action, except for (a) loans originated for sale in the secondary market secured by 1-4 family residential properties and (b) certain loans where the real estate collateral is second lien collateral or (ii) prior to the completion of any acquisition when we are acquiring retail banking facilities or any other real property. These policies, procedures and evaluations may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we do not properly manage our credit risk, our business could be seriously harmed. There are substantial risks inherent in making any loan or lease, including, but not limited to – • risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions; • risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers; • risks inherent from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral; and • the risk of non-payment of loans and leases. Although we attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan and lease underwriting procedures and by monitoring concentrations of our loans and leases, there can be no assurance that these underwriting and monitoring procedures will reduce these risks. Moreover, as we expand into new markets, credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures may need to be adapted to local conditions. The inability to properly manage our credit risk or appropriately adapt our credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures to local market conditions or changing economic circumstances could have an adverse impact on our provision for loan and lease losses and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We make and hold a significant number of construction/land development, non-farm/non-residential and other real estate loans in our non-purchased loan and lease portfolio. Our non-purchased loan and lease portfolio is comprised of a significant amount of real estate loans, including a large number of construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans. Our real estate loans comprised 86.9% of our total non-purchased loans and leases at December 31, 2014. In addition, our construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, which are a subset of our real estate loans, comprised 35.5% and 37.8%, respectively, of our total non-purchased loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2014. Real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, pose different risks than do other types of loan and lease categories. In particular, real estate construction, acquisition and development loans have certain risks not present in other types of loans, including risks associated with construction cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk and risks associated with the ultimate sale or use of the completed construction. If a decline in economic conditions or other issues 22 Table of Contents cause difficulties for our borrowers of these types of loans, if we fail to evaluate the credit of these loans accurately when we underwrite them or if we do not continue to monitor adequately the performance of these loans, our lending portfolio could experience delinquencies, defaults and credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We believe we have established appropriate underwriting procedures for our real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, and have established appropriate allowances to cover the credit risk associated with such loans. However, there can be no assurance that such underwriting procedures are, or will continue to be, appropriate or that losses on real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, will not require additions to our allowance for loan and lease losses, and could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We could experience deficiencies in our allowance for loan and lease losses. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents our best estimate of probable losses inherent in our existing loan and lease portfolio. Although we believe that we maintain our allowance for loan and lease losses at a level adequate to absorb losses in our loan and lease portfolio, estimates of loan and lease losses are subjective and their accuracy may depend on the outcome of future events. Experience in the banking industry indicates that some portion of our loans and leases may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. Loan and lease losses occur for many reasons beyond our control. Accordingly, we may be required to make significant and unanticipated increases in our allowance for loan and lease losses during future periods which could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, bank regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. These regulatory authorities may require adjustments to the allowance for loan and lease losses or may require recognition of additional loan and lease losses or charge-offs based upon their judgment. Any increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses or charge-offs required by bank regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The performance of our investment securities portfolio is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and market conditions, including credit deterioration of the issuers of individual securities. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investment securities. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or increase unrealized losses in our portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political issues, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates can materially affect both the returns on and market value of our investment securities. Additionally, actual investment income and cash flows from investment securities that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed securities and callable securities, may materially differ from those anticipated at the time of investment or subsequently as a result of changes in interest rates and market conditions. Our investment securities portfolio consists of a number of securities whose trading markets are “not active.” As a result, we utilize alternative methodologies for pricing these securities that include various estimates and assumptions. There can be no assurance that we can sell these investment securities at the price derived by these methodologies, or that we can sell these investment securities at all, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation or liquidity. We monitor the financial position of the various issues of investment securities in our portfolio, including each of the state and local governments and other political subdivisions where we have exposure. To the extent we have securities in our portfolio from issuers who have experienced a deterioration of financial condition, or who may experience future deterioration of financial condition, the value of such securities may decline and could result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to grow our business at the same rate of growth achieved in recent years or even grow our business at all. Additionally, in the future we may not have the benefit of several factors that have been favorable to our business in past years, such as an interest rate environment where changes in rates occur at a relatively orderly and modest pace, the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities, or otherwise to capitalize on opportunities presented by economic turbulence, or other factors and conditions. Numerous factors, such as weakening or deteriorating economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition may impede or restrict our ability to expand our market presence and could adversely impact our future operating results. 23 Table of Contents Our FDIC insurance premiums may increase. The FDIC has increased premiums charged to all financial institutions for FDIC insurance protection during recent years and such premiums may increase further in future years. We have historically paid at or near the lowest applicable premium rate under the FDIC’s insurance premium rate structure due to our sound financial position. However, should bank failures increase in the future, FDIC insurance premiums may also increase. Additionally, in the event we exceed $10 billion in assets, the method for calculating our FDIC assessments will change, and we expect our FDIC assessments will increase as a result. Future increases of FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. To successfully implement our growth strategy, we must expand our operations in both new and existing markets. We intend to continue the expansion and development of our business by pursuing our growth and de novo branching strategy. Accordingly, our growth prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by banking companies pursuing growth strategies. In order to successfully execute our growth strategy, we must, among other things: • identify and expand into suitable markets; • obtain regulatory and other approvals; • identify and acquire suitable sites for new banking offices; • attract and retain qualified bank management and staff; • build a substantial customer base; • expand our loan portfolio while maintaining credit quality; • attract sufficient deposits and capital to fund anticipated loan and lease growth; • maintain adequate common equity and regulatory capital; and • maintain sufficient qualified staffing and infrastructure to support growth and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. In addition to the foregoing factors, there are considerable costs involved in opening banking offices, and such new offices generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for some time. Therefore, any new banking offices we open can be expected to negatively affect our operating results until those offices reach a size at which they become profitable. We could also experience an increase in expenses if we encounter delays in opening any new banking offices. Moreover, we cannot give any assurances that any new banking offices we open will be successful, even after they have become established, or that we can hire and retain qualified bank management and staff to achieve our growth and profitability goals. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our business, future prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors or the cash needs for expansion and other corporate activities. Liquidity represents an institution’s ability to provide funds to satisfy demands from depositors, borrowers and other creditors by either converting assets into cash or accessing new or existing sources of incremental funds. Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that we may be unable to satisfy current or future funding requirements and needs. Our ALCO and Investments Committee (“ALCO”), which reports to the board of directors, has primary responsibility for oversight of our liquidity, funds management, asset/liability (interest rate risk) position and investment portfolio functions. The objective of managing liquidity risk is to ensure that our cash flow requirements resulting from depositor, borrower and other creditor demands are met, as well as our operating cash needs, and that our cost of funding such requirements and needs is reasonable. We maintain a comprehensive interest rate risk, liquidity and funds management policy and a contingency funding plan that, among other things, include policies and procedures for managing liquidity risk. Generally we rely on deposits, repayments of loans and leases and purchased loans, and repayments of our investment securities as our primary sources of funds. Our principal deposit sources include consumer, commercial and public funds customers in our markets. We have used these funds, together with wholesale deposit sources such as brokered deposits, along with Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas (“FHLB-Dallas”) advances, FRB borrowings, federal funds purchased and 24 Table of Contents other sources of short-term borrowings, to make loans and leases, acquire investment securities and other assets and to fund continuing operations. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments, general economic and market conditions and other factors. Repayments of loans and leases and purchased loans are a relatively stable source of funds but are subject to the borrowers’ and lessees’ ability to repay such loans and leases, which can be adversely affected by a number of factors including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups or specific businesses, declines in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and other factors. Furthermore, loans and leases and purchased loans generally are not readily convertible to cash. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet our loan, lease and deposit withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such secondary sources include FHLB-Dallas advances, brokered deposits, secured and unsecured federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, FRB borrowings and/or accessing the capital markets. We anticipate we will continue to rely primarily on deposits, repayments of loans and leases, and repayments of our investment securities to provide liquidity. Additionally, where necessary, the secondary sources of borrowed funds described above will be used to augment our primary funding sources. If we are unable to access any of these secondary funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet our customers’ or creditors’ needs, which would adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to grow, but that capital may not be available when needed. Federal and state bank regulators require us, and our bank subsidiary, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. At December 31, 2014, our bank holding company and our bank subsidiary regulatory capital ratios were at “well-capitalized” levels under regulatory guidelines. However, our business strategy calls for continued growth in our existing banking markets (internally, through opening additional offices and by making additional acquisitions) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. Growth in assets at rates in excess of the rate at which our capital is increased through retained earnings will reduce our capital ratios unless we continue to increase capital. If our capital ratios fell below “well-capitalized” levels, the FDIC insurance assessment rate would increase until capital is restored and maintained at a “well-capitalized” level. Additionally, should our capital ratios fall below “well-capitalized” levels, certain funding sources could become more costly or could cease to be available to us until such time as capital is restored and maintained at a “well-capitalized” level. A higher assessment rate resulting in an increase in FDIC insurance assessments, increased cost of funding or loss of funding sources could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. As a publicly traded company, a likely source of additional funds is the capital markets, accomplished generally through the issuance of equity, both common and preferred stock, and the issuance of subordinated debentures. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that access to such capital and liquidity will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank subsidiary or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand through internal growth or acquisitions or to continue operations could be impaired. We may be adversely affected by risks associated with completed and potential acquisitions. We plan to continue to grow our business organically. However, we have pursued and expect to pursue additional acquisition opportunities that we believe support our business strategy and may enhance our profitability. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; 25 Table of Contents • the risk that the acquired business will not perform to our expectations; • difficulties, inefficiencies or cost overruns in integrating and assimilating the organizational cultures, operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired business with ours; • the risk of key vendors not fulfilling our expectations or not accurately converting data; • entering geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees, customers and deposits of acquired banks; • the potential for liabilities and claims arising out of the acquired businesses; and • the risk of not receiving required regulatory approvals or such approvals being restrictively conditional. Acquisitions of financial institutions also involve operational risks and uncertainties, and acquired companies may have unknown or contingent liabilities with no corresponding accounting allowance, exposure to unexpected asset quality problems that require writedowns or write-offs (as well as restructuring and impairment or other charges), difficulty retaining key employees and customers and other issues that could negatively affect our business. We may not be able to realize any projected cost savings, synergies or other benefits associated with any such acquisition we complete. Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations could increase our operating costs significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions prior to completing any acquisition, including, in certain cases, federal and state regulatory approval. Bank regulators consider a number of factors when determining whether to approve a proposed transaction, including the effect of the transaction on financial stability and the ratings and compliance history of all institutions involved, including the CRA, examination results and anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance records of all institutions involved. The process for obtaining required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult as a result of the recent financial crisis, which could affect our future business. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant business opportunities as a result of our inability, or our perceived inability, to obtain any required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we face significant competition from numerous other financial services institutions, many of which will have greater financial resources than we do, when considering acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any future acquisitions. We may engage in additional FDIC-assisted acquisitions, which could present additional risks to our business. During 2010 and 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the deposits and certain other liabilities of seven failed financial institutions in FDIC-assisted acquisitions. At December 31, 2014, the loss share agreements for all seven of the FDIC-assisted acquisitions had been terminated. Although the pace of FDIC-assisted acquisitions across the U.S. has dramatically slowed in the past several years, we may be presented with additional opportunities to acquire the assets and assume liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted acquisitions in the future. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks such as sharing in loan losses and losses on other covered assets and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are for failed banks and are structured in a manner that does not allow the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition (including preparing for integration of an acquired institution), we may face additional risks when engaging in FDIC-assisted acquisitions. The assets we would acquire in such transactions are generally more troubled than in a typical acquisition and the deposits are generally higher priced than in a typical acquisition and therefore are subject to higher rates of attrition. Integration of operations also may be more difficult in an FDIC-assisted acquisition than in a typical acquisition since key staff may have departed. Any inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives and maintain our market value and profitability. Additionally, we can only participate in the bid process for an FDIC-assisted transaction if we receive approval from bank regulators. There can be no assurance that we will be allowed to participate in the bid process, or what the terms of any such transaction might be or whether we would be successful in acquiring any bank or targeted assets. We may be 26 Table of Contents required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in certain FDIC-assisted acquisitions. Any such transactions and related issuances of capital may have a dilutive effect on earnings per common share and share ownership. Furthermore, to the extent we are allowed to, and choose to participate in future FDIC-assisted acquisitions, we may face competition from other financial institutions. To the extent that other competitors participate, our ability to make acquisitions on favorable terms may be adversely affected. Additionally, if we acquire bank assets and operations through future FDIC-assisted acquisitions, we could encounter difficulties in achieving profitability of those operations. If we acquire bank assets and operations through future FDIC-assisted acquisitions and enter into loss share agreements with respect to such transactions, any failure to comply with the terms of such loss share agreements, or to properly service the loans and foreclosed assets covered by loss share agreements, may cause individual loans, large pools of loans or other assets covered by loss share to lose eligibility for reimbursement from the FDIC. Systems conversions of acquired banks may be difficult. Subsequent to the acquisition of a financial institution, the various operating systems must be converted, in most cases, to our operating systems. These systems conversions require personnel with unique and specialized skills and require a significant amount of planning, coordination and effort of internal resources and third-party vendors. Our inability to hire or retain individuals with the appropriate skills or to effectively plan, coordinate and manage these systems conversions or any failure to effectively implement these systems conversions could have serious negative customer impact, exposing us to reputational risk and adversely impacting our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We face strong competition in our markets. Competition in many of our banking markets is intense. We compete with other financial and bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerages, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, leasing companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders and other financial institutions and intermediaries, as well as non-financial institutions offering payroll, debit card and other services. Many of these competitors have an advantage over us through substantially greater financial resources, lending limits and larger distribution networks, and are able to offer a broader range of products and services. Other competitors, many of which are smaller, are privately-held and thus benefit from greater flexibility in adopting or modifying growth or operational strategies than we do. If we fail to compete effectively for deposits, loans, leases and other banking customers in our markets, we could lose substantial market share, suffer a slower growth rate or no growth and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial stability of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to various counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial and correspondent banks, and others. As a result, defaults by, or rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may result in market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by such other institutions. Such occurrences could expose us to credit risk in the event of default of one or more counterparties and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into certain transactions, we rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of our business practices and/or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices and/or financial 27 Table of Contents health could damage our reputation, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments or other external perceptions regarding the practices of competitors, or the industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse impacts on our reputation, or the reputation of the industry, may also result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products we offer. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase litigation risk. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives and/or results of operations. We may be subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time as part of our normal course of business, customers may make claims and take legal action against us based on actions or inactions related to the fiduciary responsibilities of our bank subsidiary’s Trust and Wealth Management Division. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect our market perception or our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims and litigation asserting lender liability. From time to time, and particularly during periods of economic stress, customers, including real estate developers, may make claims or otherwise take legal action pertaining to performance of our responsibilities. These claims are often referred to as “lender liability” claims and are sometimes brought in an effort to produce or increase leverage against us in workout negotiations or debt collection proceedings. Lender liability claims frequently assert one or more of the following: breach of fiduciary duties, fraud, economic duress, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and similar claims. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of our responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a favorable manner, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect our market perception, products and services, as well as potentially impacting customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies and greater privacy and security protection for customers and their personal information. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could impair our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to a variety of systems failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our internal operations are subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to, information system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts, data piracy or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls and security to mitigate the risks of many of these occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for certain risks. However, should an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, and is uninsured against or in excess of applicable insurance limits, such occurrence could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon the ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, severe storm, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network 28 Table of Contents infrastructure that causes an interruption in operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by Internet users or other users. Computer break-ins and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network, which may result in significant liability and reputation risk to us, and may deter potential customers. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to actively monitor and, where necessary, implement improved security technology and develop additional operational procedures to prevent damage or unauthorized access to our computer systems and network, there can be no assurance that these security measures or operational procedures will be successful. In addition, new developments or advances in computer capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography could enable hackers or data pirates to compromise or breach the security measures we use to protect customer data. Any failure to maintain adequate security over our customers’ personal and transactional information could expose us to reputational risk or consumer litigation, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our risk and exposure to cyber attacks and other information security breaches remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that customers use to access our products and services, could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, including litigation expense and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We rely on certain external vendors. We are reliant upon certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements. We maintain a system of policies and procedures designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition and (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or the service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial condition and results of operations. Reductions in interchange fees would reduce our non-interest income. An interchange fee is a fee merchants pay to the interchange network in exchange for the use of the network’s infrastructure and payment facilitation, and which is paid to debit, credit and prepaid card issuers to compensate them for the costs associated with card issuance and operation. In the case of credit cards, this includes the risk associated with lending money to customers. We earn interchange fees on these card transactions, including approximately $10.5 million in fees during 2014. Merchants, trying to decrease their operating expenses, have sought to, and have had some success at, lowering interchange rates. In particular, the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act limited the amount of interchange fees that may be charged for debit and prepaid card transactions. Several recent events and actions indicate a continuing focus on interchange fees by both regulators and merchants. Beyond pursuing litigation, legislation and regulation, merchants are also pursuing alternate payment platforms as a means to lower payment processing costs. To the extent interchange fees are further reduced, our non-interest income from those fees will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the payment card industry is subject to the operating regulations and procedures set forth by payment card networks, and our failure to comply with these operating regulations, which may change from time to time, could subject us to various penalties or fees or the termination of our license to use the payment card networks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Natural disasters may adversely affect us. Our operations and customer base are located in markets where natural disasters, including tornadoes, severe storms, fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes often occur. Such natural disasters could significantly impact the local population and economies and our business, and could pose physical risks to our properties. Although our business is geographically dispersed primarily throughout Arkansas, Texas and the southeastern United States, a significant natural disaster in or near one or more of our markets could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INDUSTRY We are subject to extensive government regulation that limits or restricts our activities and could adversely impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, interest rates charged for loans and leases, interest rates paid on deposits, locations of banking offices and various other activities and aspects of our operations. We are also subject to capital guidelines established by regulators which require maintenance of adequate capital. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC’s DIF rather than shareholders. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and NASDAQ, as well as numerous other recently enacted statutes and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations promulgated thereunder, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance and reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our external audit and maintaining our internal controls. Government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, and increases our costs of complying with regulatory requirements. Additionally, the failure to comply with these various rules and regulations could subject us to monetary penalties or sanctions or otherwise expose us to reputational risk and could adversely affect our results of operations. Newly enacted and proposed legislation and regulations may affect our operations and growth. To address the recent turbulence in the U.S. economy and the banking and financial markets, the U.S. government has enacted a series of laws, regulations, guidelines and programs, many of which are discussed under the section “Item 1-Business-Supervision and Regulation” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, may include, among others: • a reduction in our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; • an increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; • the limitation on our ability to raise qualifying regulatory capital through the use of trust preferred securities as these securities may no longer be included in Tier 1 capital going forward; and • the limitations on our ability to offer certain consumer products and services due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. Examples of these provisions include, but are not limited to: • creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council that may recommend to the FRB increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity; 30 Table of Contents • application of the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies; • changes to the assessment base used by the FDIC to assess insurance premiums from insured depository institutions and increases to the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF from 1.15% to not less than 1.35% with provisions to require institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more to bear a greater portion of the costs associated with increasing the DIF’s reserve ratio; • repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; • establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; • implementation of risk retention rules for loans (excluding qualified residential mortgages) that are sold by a bank; and • amendment of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to, among other things, give the FRB the authority to issue rules limiting debit card interchange fees. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act as we continue to grow and approach $10 billion in total assets. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent CFPB within the FRB. The CFPB is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank consumers. For banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, the CFPB has exclusive rulemaking and examination authority, and primary enforcement authority for most federal consumer financial laws. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB. Compliance with any such new regulations would increase our cost of operations. Failure to comply with these new requirements, among others, may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in the routine course of regulatory oversight, proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of, and federal insurance premiums paid by, banks and other financial institutions and companies that control financial institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of significant changes in laws and regulations in the future and the impact that such changes might have on our operations are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting, financial reporting requirements applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies and other authorities. Further, federal intervention in financial markets and the commensurate impact on financial institutions may adversely affect our rights under contracts with such other institutions and the way in which we conduct business in certain markets. The likelihood and impact of any future changes in these accounting and financial reporting requirements and the impact these changes might have on our business and operations are also impossible to determine at this time. We will be subject to heightened regulatory requirements if we exceed $10 billion in assets. Based on our historic organic growth rates, we expect that our total assets could exceed $10 billion over the next two to three years, or sooner if we engage in any acquisitions. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the FRB’s enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements. In addition, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations. Currently, our bank subsidiary is subject to regulations adopted by the CFPB, but the FDIC is primarily responsible for examining our compliance with consumer protection laws and those CFPB regulations. As a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is uncertainty as to how the CFPB’s examination and regulatory authority might impact our business. Compliance with these requirements may necessitate that we hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls, or incur other significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, 31 Table of Contents part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or our customers and, as a result, may adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities. To ensure compliance with these heightened requirements when effective, our regulators may require us to fully comply with these requirements or take actions to prepare for compliance even before our or our bank subsidiary’s total assets equal or exceed $10 billion. As a result, we may incur compliance-related costs before we might otherwise be required, including if we do not continue to grow at the rate we expect or at all. Our regulators may also consider our preparation for compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval we may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters. Consumers may decide not to use community banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete, through alternative methods, financial transactions that historically have involved community banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as local bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds with an Internet-only bank, or with virtually any bank in the country through online banking. Consumers can also complete transactions such as purchasing goods and services, paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower-cost deposits as a source of funds could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock is affected by a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock at times and prices they find attractive. Our common stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace about us and/or our competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; and • changes in governmental regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events such as economic slowdowns, expected or incurred interest rate changes, credit loss trends and various other factors and events could adversely impact the price of our common stock. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to common shareholders in the future. Our shareholders are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in Arkansas law, by our federal regulator, and by certain covenants contained in the indentures governing the trust preferred securities issued by us or entities we have acquired or may acquire in the future. Our principal business operations are conducted through our bank subsidiary. Cash available to pay dividends to our common shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid by our bank subsidiary. The ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our common shareholders, will continue to 32 Table of Contents be subject to and limited by the results of operations of our bank subsidiary and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than regulatory requirements with respect to our payment of dividends to common shareholders. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends to our common shareholders in the future. Certain state and/or federal laws may deter potential acquirors and may depress our stock price. Certain provisions of federal and state laws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Under certain federal and state laws, a person, entity, or group must give notice to applicable regulatory authorities before acquiring a significant amount, as defined by such laws, of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including shares of our common stock. Regulatory authorities review the potential acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The applicable regulatory authorities will then act on the notice, taking into account the resources of the potential acquiror, the potential antitrust effects of the proposed acquisition and numerous other factors. As a result, these statutory provisions may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in such shareholder’s best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders and any future debt we may offer may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate of $64.9 million of floating rate subordinated debentures and related trust preferred securities outstanding. In addition, we acquired an aggregate outstanding amount of $56.7 million of subordinated debentures and related trust preferred securities in connection with our Intervest acquisition which closed on February 10, 2015. We guarantee payment of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities, and the subordinated debentures are senior to shares of our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on shares of our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures would receive a distribution from our available assets before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our subordinated debentures and the related trust preferred securities for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock. We may from time to time issue debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, borrow money through other means, or issue preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of our shareholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding-up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our stock. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned 10.3% of our common stock as of February 13, 2015. As a result of their aggregate beneficial ownership, directors and executive officers have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of our directors. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Although shares of our common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or, as we have in recent years, to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options, grant restricted stock awards or other stock grants to retain, compensate and/or motivate our employees and directors. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of existing shareholders. Our common stock is not an insured deposit. Shares of our common stock are not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in shares of our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 