Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of the risk factors that Reis’s management believes are material to Reis at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing Reis and there may be additional matters that Reis is unaware of or that Reis currently considers immaterial. All of these could adversely affect Reis’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our commercial real estate information services business is our primary business segment. However, our residential development and sales activities significantly impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Reis Generally Our common stock is thinly traded and there may continue to be little or no liquidity for shares of our common stock. Historically, our common stock has been thinly traded and an active trading market for our common stock may not develop. In the absence of an active public trading market, investors trying to sell their shares may find it difficult to find buyers for their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Our Board may effect a transaction such as a reverse stock split, or an odd lot or other share repurchase program, with respect to our common stock. Wellsford effected an odd lot share repurchase program in 1999, strategically repurchased shares between 1999 and 2001, and executed a reverse stock split in 2000. All decisions regarding any such transaction will be at the discretion of our Board and will be evaluated from time to time by the Board in light of the price per share of our common stock, the number of shares of our common stock outstanding, applicable NASDAQ rules, applicable law and other factors that our Board deems relevant. If we effect any such transaction, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares that would be outstanding after the transaction. In addition, effecting a share repurchase program would cause a reduction in our total market capitalization and would require the payment of cash by Reis to stockholders, which could adversely impact our liquidity. If we effect a reverse stock split, there can be no assurance that the market price per share of our common stock after the reverse stock split will rise or remain constant in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding before the reverse stock split. Our executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock and have significant control of our management and affairs, and they may take actions which may not be in the best interest of other stockholders. The executive officers and directors of Reis beneficially owned approximately 24.2% of Reis’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. Of this total, Lloyd Lynford (7.0%), Jonathan Garfield (6.7%) and Jeffrey Lynford (5.2%) beneficially owned an aggregate of 18.9%. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies where management holds a significant percentage of the voting power. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving Reis, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a change of control would benefit Reis’s stockholders other than the group of directors and officers described above. Our success depends on retaining key executive officers and personnel and attracting and retaining capable management and operating personnel. Reis’s business plan with respect to its commercial real estate information services business was developed, in large part, by Reis’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Lloyd Lynford, Reis’s Executive Vice President, Jonathan Garfield, and Reis Services’ Chief Operating Officer, William Sander. The continued implementation and development of Reis’s business plan, and our business generally, requires their skills and knowledge. Reis may not be able to offset the impact of the loss of the services of Lloyd Lynford, Mr. Garfield, Mr. Sander or other key officers or employees because its business requires skilled management, as well as technical, product and technology, and sales and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in the information industry, and the loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees could have a material adverse impact on Reis. Our real estate operations depend greatly on the services of Jeffrey H. Lynford, our Executive Chairman. Jeffrey Lynford was Chairman of Wellsford’s Board since Wellsford’s formation in 1997 through the May 2007 merger, and was Wellsford’s President and Chief Executive Officer from April 2002 through the May 2007 merger. In addition, our real estate operations rely on David M. Strong, our Senior Vice President — Development, specifically with respect to the Gold Peak project. The loss of the services of either Jeffrey Lynford or Mr. Strong could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and financial condition, including the terms and conditions 10 Table of Contents under which we conduct our residential development and sales activities related to our assets and continued availability of construction loans. Furthermore, Jeffrey Lynford’s contract provides that he is no longer required to devote substantially all of his time, attention and energies during business hours to our business activities. He may now perform services for and engage in business activities with other persons so long as such services and activities do not prevent him from fulfilling his fiduciary responsibilities to Reis. Reis’s business operations could be negatively impacted if we are unable to retain the services of Jeffrey Lynford and Mr. Strong, as well as other key personnel, or hire suitable replacements. Although Reis uses various incentive programs to retain and attract key personnel, these measures may not be sufficient to either attract or retain, as applicable, the personnel required to ensure our success. Our existing equity incentive compensation plan expired in March 2008. If our stockholders do not approve a new equity incentive plan at Reis’s 2008 annual stockholders meeting, our ability to attract and retain key personnel may be adversely impacted. If a new equity incentive plan is adopted, issuances pursuant to that plan would result in dilution to Reis stockholders. We may be subject to litigation as a result of our termination of the Plan. Historically, extraordinary corporate actions, such as terminating the Plan, have occasionally led to securities class action lawsuits being filed against a company. In addition, as a consequence of terminating the Plan, it was necessary to recharacterize $1.15 of the December 14, 2005 cash distribution of $14.00 per share from what may have been characterized at that time as a return of capital for our stockholders to taxable dividend income. This recharacterization may cause some of our stockholders to be subject to additional taxation and/or regulatory action if they fail to report it properly. We are not currently aware of any pending or threatened lawsuits relating to the Plan or its termination. However, if such litigation should occur, it is likely to be expensive and, even if we ultimately prevail, the process will be time consuming and will divert management’s attention from operating our business. We cannot predict the outcome or the amount of expenses and damages, but the amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our governing documents and Maryland law contain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Reis’s articles of amendment and restatement contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of Reis by merger, tender offer, proxy contest, or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our Board. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of Reis even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of its stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of Reis’s common stock. Reis’s governing documents: • provide for a classified board of directors, which could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control; and • authorize the issuance of blank check stock that could be issued by Reis’s Board to thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares or an affiliate thereof are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Reis’s Board has exempted from the Maryland statute any business combinations with Jeffrey Lynford or Edward Lowenthal or any of their affiliates or any other person acting in concert or as a group with any of such persons and, consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between such persons and Reis. Increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $37,633,000 of variable rate debt outstanding. We may incur additional variable rate indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, 11 Table of Contents which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have limited our exposure to significant interest rate increases on some of our existing variable rate debt by purchasing interest rate caps. In purchasing interest rate caps, we attempt to protect against significant increases in interest rates, weighing the cost of such caps against the protection afforded. Based on the December 31, 2007 debt balances and the notional amount of the interest rate caps, a 1% increase in the base interest rates of our variable rate debt would result in approximately $324,000 of additional interest being incurred on an annualized basis. The effect of a 1% increase in the base interest rates of our variable rate debt, without considering the interest rate caps, would result in approximately $376,000 of additional interest being incurred on an annualized basis. Our ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards of the historic Wellsford business will be subject to limitation and, under certain circumstances, may be eliminated. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code. In general, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on a corporation’s ability to use its net operating losses, or NOLs, from taxable years or periods ending on or before the date of an ownership change to offset U.S. Federal taxable income in any post-change year. The historic Wellsford business experienced such an ownership change as a result of the May 2007 merger; as a result, we are subject to the limitation under Section 382 with respect to pre-change NOLs of the historic Wellsford business. Section 382 imposes significant limitations on the use of historic Wellsford’s NOL carryforwards. The annual limitation on our use of NOLs through 2027, as a result of the ownership change, is approximately $2,779,000 per year. Moreover, if a corporation experiences an ownership change and does not satisfy the “continuity of business enterprise” requirement (which generally requires that the corporation continue its historic business or use a significant portion of its historic business assets in a business for the two-year period beginning on the date of the ownership change), it cannot, subject to certain exceptions, use any NOL from a pre-change period to offset taxable income in post-change years. Although there can be no assurance that this requirement will be met with respect to the ownership change effected by the May 2007 merger, our management believes that we will satisfy this requirement. We have NOL carryforwards, for Federal income tax purposes, resulting from Wellsford’s merger with Value Property Trust in 1998 and operating losses in 2004, 2006 and 2007 (prior to the Merger). Assuming we are able to satisfy the continuity of business enterprise requirement described above, we expect that we could only potentially utilize $38,100,000 of the remaining NOLs existing at December 31, 2007, based on the new $2,779,000 annual limitation and expirations. Approximately $9,958,000 of this amount expires in 2008 and 2010. The actual ability to utilize the tax benefit of any existing NOLs will be subject to future facts and circumstances with respect to meeting the above described “continuity of business enterprise” requirements at the time NOLs are being utilized on a tax return and when there are realized losses on sales of assets. Reis Services has existing NOLs, expiring in the years 2019 through 2026, aggregating approximately $11,800,000. These losses may be utilized against consolidated taxable income, subject to a $5,300,000 annual limitation. Risk Factors Relating to Our Commercial Real Estate Information Services Business A failure to attract and retain customers, and any failure to increase the number of customers, could harm our business. Our customers include subscribers to our flagship product, Reis Subscriber Edition, or Reis SE. In addition to subscribers who typically pay for their annual service in advance, customers also include those who purchase our service on an ad hoc and pay as you go basis. Either category of customer may decide not to continue to use Reis SE because of budget or other competitive reasons. If subscribers choose not to renew their contracts or decrease their use of our information, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. To grow the business, we must convince prospective subscribers and existing customers to expand their use of Reis SE and our other products. Prospective customers may not be familiar with our service and may be accustomed to using other methods of conducting commercial real estate market research and property valuations. There can be no 12 Table of Contents assurance that we will be successful in continuing to acquire additional customers. Moreover, it is difficult to estimate the total number of active, prospective customers in the U.S. during any given period. If we reach the point at which we have attempted to sell our services to a significant majority of commercial real estate professionals in the U.S., the ability to increase our customer base could be limited. Our revenues are concentrated among certain key customers. Our commercial real estate information services business has approximately 730 customers at December 31, 2007, but derives approximately 33% of its revenues from 25 customers. If we were to experience a reduction or loss of business from a number of these 25 largest customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, depending on the significance of the loss, our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. In addition, although we generally impose contractual restrictions limiting our immediate exposure to revenue reductions due to mergers and consolidations and our pricing model is based on projected usage, we may be impacted by consolidation among our customers and potential customers, as a result of their reduced usage or greater bargaining power. The largest customer accounted for 2.4% of Reis Services revenues for the period June 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. We have competition from both local companies that prepare commercial real estate research with respect to their specific geographic areas and national companies that prepare national commercial real estate research. Specifically, certain of our products compete with those of Torto Wheaton Research, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CB Richard Ellis, Property and Portfolio Research, a subsidiary of the Daily Mail Group, and Costar Group, Inc. Some of our competitors, either alone or with affiliated entities, may have greater access to resources than we do. Competition could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to sustain revenue growth in our commercial real estate information services business and future financial performance may be difficult to assess. Although our commercial real estate information services business was formed it 1980, it first offered services online in 1996. Although profitable since fiscal 2004, our commercial real estate information services business experienced losses in 1996 through fiscal 2003 from the introduction of online services. We may incur additional expenses, such as marketing and product development expenses, with the expectation that revenues will grow in the future. However, such expectations may not be realized. We must continue to obtain information from multiple sources. The quality of Reis SE depends substantially on information provided by a large number of commercial real estate brokers, agents, and property owners. If a significant number of these sources choose not to continue providing information to us, our product could be negatively affected, potentially resulting in an increase in customer cancellations and a failure to acquire new customers. Our revenues, expenses and operating results could be affected by general economic conditions or by changes in commercial real estate markets, which are cyclical. Our business is sensitive to trends in the general economy and trends in local, regional and national commercial real estate markets, which are unpredictable. Therefore, operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader commercial real estate industry, may be subject to significant fluctuations. A number of factors could have an effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results or cash flows, such as: • periods of economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. or locally; • inflation; • flows of capital into or out of real estate investment in the U.S. or various regions of the U.S.; • changes in levels of rent or appreciation of asset values; • changing interest rates; 13 Table of Contents • tax and accounting policies; • the cost of capital; • costs of construction; • increased unemployment; • lower consumer confidence; • lower wage and salary levels; • war, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; or • the public perception that any of these conditions may occur. If our customers choose not to use Reis SE because of economic conditions, and we are not successful in attracting new customers, our revenues, expenses, operating results, cash flows or stock price could be negatively affected. A primary source of new customers for us is the commercial real estate professional community, which may be reluctant to adopt our products and services. Our success has depended on our ability to convince commercial real estate professionals that Reis SE is superior to other traditional methods of conducting commercial real estate market research and valuation. Many commercial real estate professionals are used to conducting market research and valuation through the traditional means of relying on a network of contacts in a local market. Commercial real estate professionals may prefer to continue to use traditional methods or may be slow to adopt our products and services. If we are unable to continue to persuade commercial real estate professionals that Reis SE is a superior alternative to traditional means of conducting market research and valuation, our operating results and profitability may be negatively affected. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new or upgraded services or products. To continue to attract new customers to Reis SE, we may need to introduce new products or services. We may choose to develop new products and services independently or choose to license or otherwise integrate content and data from third parties. The introduction of new products and services could impose costs on our business and require the use of resources, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to access new content and technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If customers or potential customers do not recognize the value of our new services or enhancements to existing services, operating results could be negatively affected. We may incur significant costs and experience difficulties in developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products. Efforts to enhance and improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing products and services have inherent risks, and we may not be able to manage these product developments and enhancements successfully or in a cost effective manner. If we are unable to continue to develop new or upgraded services or products, then customers may choose not to use our products and services. Our growth would be negatively impacted if we were unable to successfully market and sell any new services or upgrades. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if customers are reluctant to use products because of privacy concerns, we might experience a loss in profitability. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of use on our web site, as part of our customer registration process, we collect and use personally identifiable information. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our web sites, including theft, alteration, deletion or misappropriation of information, security breaches, computer hackers, viruses or anything else manifesting contaminating or destructive properties, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our web site to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. Under the laws of certain jurisdictions, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal customer data has been stolen, we may be required to inform any customers whose data was stolen, which could harm our reputation and business. 14 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if we are unable to maintain the integrity and reliability of our data. Our success depends on our customers’ confidence in the comprehensiveness, accuracy, and reliability of the data we provide. We believe that we take adequate precautions to safeguard the completeness and accuracy of our data and that the information is generally current, comprehensive and accurate. Nevertheless, data is susceptible to electronic malfeasance including, theft, alteration, deletion, viruses and computer hackers. If we cannot maintain the quality of our data, demand for our services could diminish and we may be exposed to lawsuits claiming damages resulting from inaccurate data. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership or use of intellectual property. Our business depends in large measure on the intellectual property utilized in our methodologies, software and database. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, registered domain names, contracts which include non-disclosure provisions, work-for-hire provisions, and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. However, we do not hold Federal registrations covering all of our trademarks and copyrightable materials. We also do not own any patents or patent applications. Our business could be significantly harmed if we do not continue to protect our intellectual property. The same would be true if claims are made against us alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle, and could require substantial amounts of time and expenditures. If our web site or other services experience system failures or malicious attacks, our customers may be dissatisfied and our operations could be impaired. Our business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our web site. Problems with the web site could result in reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, the software underlying our services is complex and may contain undetected errors. Despite testing, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in our software. Any errors could result in adverse publicity, impaired use of our services, loss of revenues, cost increases or legal claims by customers. Additionally, our services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. Interruptions in service could result from the failure of data providers, telecommunications providers, or other third parties, including computer hackers. We depend on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our internal network infrastructure could be disrupted or penetrated, which could materially impact both our ability to provide services and customers’ confidence in our services. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are redundant and independent systems in separate locations. While we believe that our systems are adequate to support our operations, our systems may be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, computer viruses, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, acts of war, and other similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, floods, and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, any damage or disruption could materially impair or block our ability to provide services, which could significantly impact our business. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Although we have not experienced any security breaches to date and we maintain a firewall, a hacker who penetrates network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to further expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or anything else manifesting contaminating or destructive properties could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. 15 Table of Contents Any of these incidents could materially impact our ability to provide services as well as materially impact the confidence of our customers in our services, either of which could significantly and adversely impact our business. We may be subject to regulation of advertising and customer solicitation or other newly-adopted laws and regulations. As part of our customer registration process, our customers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. However, we may be subject to restrictions on our ability to communicate with customers through email and phone calls. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or spam. These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations. In addition, laws or regulations that could harm our business could be adopted, or reinterpreted so as to affect our activities, by the government of the U.S., state governments, regulatory agencies or by foreign governments or agencies. This could include, for example, laws regulating the source, content or form of information provided on our web site, the information or services we provide or our transmissions over the Internet. Violations or new interpretations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties or damage our reputation or could increase our costs or make our services less attractive. Our revenue, expenses, operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations. Our revenues, expenses, operating results and cash flows have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could negatively affect our results of operations during that period and future periods. Our revenues, expenses, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors including, among others, those described below: • obtaining new customers and retaining existing customers; • changes in our marketing or other corporate strategies; • our introduction of new products and services or changes to existing products and services; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies; and • other factors outside of our control. The Bank Loan documents contain financial and operating restrictions that limit Reis Services’s access to credit. If Reis Services fails to comply with the covenants in the Bank Loan documents, Reis Services may be required to repay the indebtedness on an accelerated basis. Provisions in the Bank Loan impose restrictions on Reis Services’s ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • amend its organizational documents; • pay dividends and make distributions; • redeem or repurchase outstanding equity; • make certain investments; • create certain liens; • enter into transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • undergo a change of control; and • make certain fundamental changes, including engaging in a merger or consolidation. The credit agreement also contains other customary covenants, including covenants which require Reis Services to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. If Reis Services were not able to comply with these covenants in 16 Table of Contents the future, the failure to do so may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause Reis Services to be unable to borrow on the $2,000,000 undrawn portion of the Bank Loan. Furthermore, certain events, such as the delisting of our common stock from a national stock exchange or the voluntary or involuntary filing by Reis under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law (which is not stayed or dismissed within certain time periods), will cause an event of default. In addition, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, which would require Reis Services to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, Reis Services may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of this indebtedness is accelerated, Reis Services or Reis may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, the Bank Loan is secured by Reis Services’s assets and, therefore, these assets will not be available to secure additional credit. We may be subject to tax audits or other procedures concerning our tax collection policies. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in states other than New York. However, one or more states (other than New York) may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, such as Reis, which engage in online commerce. A successful assertion that we should collect sales, use or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services into these states could harm our business. If we are not able to successfully identify or integrate future acquisitions, our business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and future acquisitions may divert our management’s attention and consume significant resources. We may in the future attempt to further expand our markets and services in part through acquisitions of other complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that future acquisitions, if any, will be successful. The successful execution of any future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Any such acquired businesses would generally be subject to the risks described in “Risk Factors Relating to Our Commercial Real Estate Information Services Business” in this section. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. In addition, if we finance or otherwise complete acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders’ ownership may be diluted. Risk Factors Relating to Our Residential Development Activities We are subject to the risks that generally affect real estate investors and developers. The value of our real estate assets is subject to certain risks applicable to our assets and inherent in the real estate industry. In fact, in recent months, real estate values across the United States have declined rapidly. In addition, the availability of credit for both developers and buyers has significantly decreased. Deteriorating market conditions, among other factors, have resulted in Reis recording impairment charges of approximately $3,149,000 in December 2007 with respect to the historic Wellsford real estate assets, and future events could cause further impairment charges to be recorded. These factors, which, if they persist, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, include: • downturns in the national, regional and local economies where our properties are located; • macroeconomic, as well as specific regional and local market conditions; • decreases in the availability of debt or other financing, for Reis or for potential purchasers of Reis’s real estate assets; • competition from other for-sale housing developments; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduction in demand for, residential homes and condominium units; 17 Table of Contents • increased operating and construction costs, including insurance premiums, utilities, building materials, labor and real estate taxes; • increases in interest rates; and • the cost of complying with environmental, zoning, and other laws. The market for construction and development of real estate is highly competitive. Developers and builders compete for, among other things, desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. We compete with large homebuilding companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, and sales resources than we do and with smaller local builders. The consolidation of some homebuilding companies may create additional competitors that have greater financial, marketing, and sales resources than we do and thus are able to compete more effectively against us. In addition, there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently conduct business. Our development and construction activities expose us to risks associated with the sale of residential units. We are subject to risks associated with the sale of residential properties, including the sale of condominium units, single family homes or lots; some of these risks currently exist. These risk factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if they materialize or persist, include: • a lack of demand by prospective buyers; • the inability to find qualified buyers; • the inability of buyers to obtain satisfactory financing; • the inability to close on sales of properties under contract; • dissatisfaction by purchasers with the homes purchased from us, which may result in litigation costs, remediation costs or warranty expenses; • the failure to sell a number of units or homes at any particular project which is sufficient to provide for full funding of homeowners’ association dues; • dissatisfaction by homeowners and homeowners’ associations with the construction of condominiums, homes and amenities by us in a condominium and/or subdivision development, which may result in litigation costs, remediation costs or warranty expenses; and • reduced sales or sales of lower priced condominium units, single family homes or lots, due to increases in interest rates, which makes it more expensive for buyers to obtain financing. We currently intend to continue to develop our residential projects at East Lyme and Claverack through the subdivision, construction and sale of single family homes or lots, and to complete the sale of condominium units at our Gold Peak project (where we have substantially completed construction). However, if a determination were made by our Board to accelerate the sale of the East Lyme project or the Claverack project in a bulk disposition, as a result of a prolonged period of negative market factors related to construction, development, financing or the inability to sell residential units (as described above), that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to risks associated with construction and development. We currently intend to continue to develop our residential projects at East Lyme and Claverack through the subdivision, construction and sale of single family homes or lots, and to complete the sale of condominium units at our Gold Peak project (where we have substantially completed construction). Alternatively, or in combination, we may sell the East Lyme project or the Claverack project to another developer, thus foregoing potential development profits associated with these properties. Our development and construction activities give rise to additional risks, 18 Table of Contents which, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and include: • the possibility that we may discontinue development opportunities after expending significant resources to determine feasibility, to perform infrastructure construction, or to build, in certain instances; • the possibility that we may not obtain construction financing on reasonable terms and conditions, or be able to refinance or extend existing financing on similar terms or at all; • the possibility that development, construction, and the sale of our projects, may not be completed on schedule resulting in increased interest expense, construction costs and general and administrative expenses; • the inability to obtain, or costly delays in obtaining, zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could delay or prevent commencement of development activities or delay completion of such activities; • the fact that properties under development or acquired for development usually generate little or no cash flow until completion of development and sale of a significant number of homes, condominium units or lots and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion and until such homes or condominium units are sold; • increases in the cost of construction materials; and • the inability to obtain proceeds from borrowings on terms financially advantageous to us or to raise alternate equity capital. Current increasingly restrictive credit market conditions, along with the downturn in residential home sales, have made it more difficult to obtain bank financing for our residential development and construction activities. We cannot make any assurances as to our ability to obtain financing for our Claverack project or to extend our existing financing with respect to our East Lyme project. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations related to our residential development activities. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on our indebtedness obligations related to our residential development activities will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, political, business, and other factors. We believe that cash on hand and cash generated by our business will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. However, if the sales of condominium units, single family homes or lots do not generate sufficient cash flow, or if future borrowings are not available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs, we may not be able to fulfill our debt service obligations. Neither our organizational documents nor those of our subsidiaries contain any limitation on the amount of debt that may be incurred. Accordingly, we and such subsidiaries could incur significant amounts of debt, resulting in increases in debt service payments which could increase the risk of default on indebtedness. Some of our development projects have incurred, and may incur, debt, in which case a third party lender would be entitled to cash flow generated by such investments until that debt is repaid. As a result of our borrowings, we are subject to certain risks normally associated with debt financing which, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including the risk that cash flow from sales of condominium units, single family homes or lots will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that existing debt will not be able to be refinanced, and the risk that the terms of such refinancings will not be as favorable to us. In addition, we may not be able to obtain modifications to extend the terms of existing financing and/or increase borrowing capacity on existing construction loans. Such borrowings will increase the risk of loss on an investment which utilizes borrowings. If we default on secured indebtedness, the lender may foreclose and we could lose our entire investment in the security for such loan. 19 Table of Contents In addition, a lender may choose to offset a portion of the loan balance with the cash we have on deposit with the lender. The restrictive covenants associated with our outstanding indebtedness under construction and development loans may limit our ability to operate our business. Our debt obligations require us to comply with a number of financial and other covenants on an ongoing basis. Some of those obligations may restrict our ability to incur additional debt or take other actions. In other cases, failure to comply with covenants may limit our ability to borrow funds or cause a default under one or more of our then existing loans, possibly requiring us to either prepay a portion of the outstanding principal or provide additional cash collateral. Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverage may affect our results of operations and increase our potential exposure to liability. Partially as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, the cost of insurance has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased, and the availability of insurance has diminished. Significant increases in our cost of insurance coverage or significant limitations on coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations from such increased costs or from liability for significant uninsurable or underinsured claims. In addition, there are some risks of loss for which we may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes, and other geologic events may not be insurable, and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism, wars, or acts of God may not be economically insurable. A material uninsured loss to any of our properties or assets could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and we may nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to that property or asset. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and our properties may have environmental or other contamination. We are subject to various Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning protection of public health and the environment. These laws may impose liability on property owners or operators for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on real property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, such substances may adversely affect the value of a property, as well as our ability to sell the property or individual condominium units or apartments, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral. Costs associated with the foregoing could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. Environmental claims are generally not covered by our insurance programs. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site’s location, its environmental condition, and the present and former uses of the site, as well as those of adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. The one environmental condition affecting our properties of which we are aware relates to a portion of the East Lyme project. This land requires remediation of pesticides used on the property when it was an apple orchard at a cost of approximately $1,000,000. Remediation costs were considered in the value of the property and is recognized as a liability at December 31, 2007. 20 Table of Contents Our properties are subject to various Federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements and the Americans with Disabilities Act. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we could incur fines or be subject to private damage awards. Compliance with requirements may require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. Such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 