RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood that the Company May Incur Additional Losses. Jet fuel costs are subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world that Ryanair can neither control nor accurately predict, including increases in demand, sudden disruptions in supply and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. Fuel prices increased substantially in fiscal years 2008 and 2009, peaking at $147 per barrel of Brent crude oil in July 2008. These increases had a significant impact on Ryanair’s costs, and in turn, on its financial results—contributing to the net loss recorded in fiscal year 2009 (the first such loss since the Company’s public flotation), which reflected a 59% increase in fuel costs between fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009, in addition to a €223.0 million write-down of the Company’s investment in Aer Lingus and accelerated depreciation of €51.7 million. As international prices for jet fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, Ryanair’s fuel costs are also subject to certain exchange rate risks. Substantial price increases, adverse exchange rates, or the unavailability of adequate supplies, including, without limitation, any such events resulting from prolonged hostilities in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions or the suspension of production by any significant producer, may adversely affect Ryanair’s profitability. In the event of a fuel shortage resulting from a disruption of oil imports or otherwise, additional increases in fuel prices or a curtailment of scheduled services could result. Ryanair has historically entered into arrangements providing for substantial protection against fluctuations in fuel prices, generally through forward contracts covering periods of up to 18 months of anticipated jet fuel requirements. Ryanair (like many other airlines) has, in more recent periods, entered into hedging arrangements on a much more selective basis. Ryanair has entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 90% of its estimated requirements for the period from April to December 2009 at prices equivalent to approximately $620 per metric ton. In addition, Ryanair has entered into forward jet fuel (jet kerosene) contracts covering approximately 60% of its estimated requirements for the period from January 2010 to March 2010 at prices equivalent to $610 per metric ton. The Company expects—depending on oil price movements over the coming months—to hedge a further portion of its fuel requirements for the fourth quarter of its 2010 fiscal year. Other than the foregoing, Ryanair has not entered into material agreements to seek to fix the price of any material quantity of fuel, and the Company is therefore exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the price of fuel, especially in light of the recent volatility. Any new increase in fuel costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See “—The Company May Not Be Successful in Raising Fares to Offset Increased Business Costs” below. No assurances whatsoever can be given about trends in fuel prices, and average fuel prices for the 2010 fiscal year or for future years may be significantly higher than current prices. Management estimates that every $1.00 movement in the price of a metric ton of jet fuel will impact Ryanair’s net income by approximately €0.18 million, taking into account Ryanair’s hedging program for the 2010 fiscal year. There can be no assurance, however, in this regard, and the impact of fuel prices on Ryanair’s operating results may be more pronounced. There also cannot be any assurance that Ryanair’s current or any future arrangements will be adequate to protect Ryanair from further increases in the price of fuel, that Ryanair will not incur losses due to high fuel prices alone or in combination with other factors, or that fuel prices will ever decline from their current levels. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Fuel Price Exposure and Hedging.” Because of Ryanair’s low fares and its no-fuel-surcharges policy, as well as the Company’s significant expansion plans, which will tend to have a negative impact on yields, its ability to pass on increased fuel costs to passengers through increased fares or otherwise is limited. Moreover, the anticipated expansion of Ryanair’s fleet will result in an increase, in absolute terms, in Ryanair’s aggregate fuel costs. Based upon Ryanair’s fuel consumption for the 2009 fiscal year, a change of $1.00 in the average annual price per metric ton of jet fuel would have caused a change of approximately €1.1 million in the Company’s annual fuel costs. Ryanair’s fuel costs in the 2009 fiscal year, after giving effect to the Company’s fuel hedging activities, increased by 59% over the comparable period ended March 31, 2008, to €1,257.1 million, primarily due to the significant increase in the cost of jet fuel and an increase in the number of sectors flown as a result of the expansion of Ryanair’s fleet and route network, offset in part by the positive impact on fuel costs of the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. Ryanair estimates that its fuel costs would have been approximately €1,154.5 million in the 2009 fiscal year, as compared to €915.8 million in the 2008 fiscal year, had Ryanair not had any fuel hedging arrangements in place in either fiscal year. Fuel costs were a significant 6 Table of Contents component in the significant increase in Ryanair’s cost base during fiscal year 2009, as its Cost per Available Seat Mile (“CASM”) increased from 0.051 Euro cents to 0.058 Euro cents, and its Break-Even Load Factor increased from 79% to 98%. Ryanair Has Decided to Freeze its Development in the U.K. Market and Curtail Certain U.K. Operations. Ryanair informed its U.K.-based pilots on June 16, 2009 that it had completed a review of its U.K. growth plans. The review was prompted by the recessionary environment in the U.K. and the impact it had on Ryanair’s business, coupled with the negative impact of the U.K.’s £10 Air Passenger Duty (“APD”), described in more detail below. As a secondary issue, Ryanair also noted that the campaign conducted by the British Airline Pilots Association (“BALPA”) for union recognition had made Ryanair’s position in the U.K. more uncertain. See “—Risks Related to the Airline Industry—The Airline Industry Is Particularly Sensitive to Changes in Economic Conditions; A Continued Recessionary Environment Would Negatively Impact Ryanair’s Result of Operations” below. As a result of the review, Ryanair announced its decision to temporarily freeze all growth at its existing U.K. bases from June 16, 2009 onwards. Ryanair plans to review the freeze of U.K. bases at the end of 2009; any changes in the announced policy will be dependent upon the recovery of the U.K. economy, the status of the U.K.’s APD tourist tax and any other relevant factors (such as airport growth incentives). Furthermore, Ryanair announced on July 21, 2009 that, as a result of the U.K. government’s £10 APD tourist tax (as well as the planned increase in APD from £10 to £11 in November 2009) and the high costs of operating at its London (Stansted) base, it would implement a 40% reduction in capacity at such base between October 2009 and March 2010. In particular, the Company will reduce its London (Stansted)-based aircraft from the current 40 to 24 during the aforementioned period. This reduction in capacity will accompany a 30% reduction in the number of weekly Ryanair flights to and from the airport, and is expected to result in 2.5 million fewer passenger trips during the period. The decision to freeze the Company’s development in the U.K. and reduce flights to and from London (Stansted) presents numerous risks. In the past, the Company’s growth has been largely dependent on flights to or from the U.K. Such flights represented 28.6% of total flights in the 2009 fiscal year. A weak U.K. economy, along with the Company’s decision to freeze its U.K. bases, and reduce its London (Stansted) flights, may affect the overall growth of the Company. In addition, the abovementioned measures affecting U.K.-based pilots may affect the Company’s labor relations. Such risks could lead to negative effects on the Company’s financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company May Not Be Successful in Reducing Business Costs to Offset Reduced Fares. Ryanair operates a low-fares airline. The success of its business model depends on its ability to control costs so as to deliver low fares while at the same time earning a profit. However, the Company currently faces an environment of weakening economic demand—prompting fare reductions—as well as high fuel costs. See “—The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment” below and “—Changes in Fuel Costs and Fuel Availability Affect the Company’s Results and Increase the Likelihood that the Company May Incur Additional Losses” above. Although the Company believes fare reductions are necessary in order to retain and grow its market share, every 1% movement in average fares tends to impact Ryanair’s net income by approximately €23.5 million (based on fiscal 2009 data). As a result, Ryanair is likely to be able to generate profits only if it is able to reduce fuel and other costs. The Company has limited control over its fuel costs and already has comparatively low operating costs. If the Company is unable to reduce its operating costs, operating profits could fall. The Company cannot offer any assurances regarding its future profitability. Terrorism in the United Kingdom or Elsewhere in Europe Could Have a Material Detrimental Effect on the Company. On August 10, 2006, U.K. security authorities arrested and subsequently charged eight individuals in connection with an alleged plot to attack aircraft operating on transatlantic routes. As a result of these arrests, U.K. authorities introduced increased security measures, which resulted in all passengers being body-searched, and a ban on the transportation in carry-on baggage of certain liquids and gels. The introduction of these measures led to passengers suffering severe delays while passing through these airport security checks. As a result, Ryanair cancelled 279 flights in the days following the incident and refunded a total of €2.7 million in fares to approximately 40,000 passengers. In the days following the arrests, Ryanair also suffered reductions in bookings estimated to have resulted in the loss of approximately €1.9 million of additional revenue. As in the past, the Company reacted to these adverse events by initiating system-wide fare sales to stimulate demand for air travel. 7 Table of Contents In addition, reservations on Ryanair’s flights to London dropped materially for a number of days in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks in London on July 7, 2005. Although the terrorist attack in Glasgow on June 30, 2007 (in which a car filled with explosives was driven into the Glasgow airport) and the failed terrorist attacks in London on July 21, 2005 and June 29, 2007 had no material impact on bookings, there can be no assurance that future such attacks will not affect passenger traffic. In the 2009 fiscal year, flights into and out of London carried 18.8 million, or approximately 32%, of total passengers traveling on the Company’s network. Future acts of terrorism or significant terrorist threats, particularly in London or other markets that are significant to Ryanair, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability or financial condition should the public’s willingness to travel to and from those markets decline as a result. See also “Risks Related to the Airline Industry—The 2001 Terrorist Attacks on the United States Had a Severe Negative Impact on the International Airline Industry.” The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Alleging State Aid at Certain Airports. In December 2002, the European Commission announced the launch of an investigation into the April 2001 agreement between Ryanair and Brussels (Charleroi) airport and the airport’s owner, the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium. The agreement enabled the Company to launch new routes and base up to four aircraft at Brussels (Charleroi). In February 2004, the European Commission found that a portion of the arrangements between Ryanair, the airport, and the region constituted illegal state aid, and therefore ordered Ryanair to repay the amount of the benefit received in connection with those arrangements. In May 2004, Ryanair appealed the decision of the European Commission to the European Court of First Instance (“CFI”), requesting that the decision be annulled. The CFI heard Ryanair’s appeal in March 2008. In December 2008, the CFI annulled the European Commission’s decision and Ryanair was repaid the €4 million that the Commission had claimed was illegal state aid. Additionally, the Walloon Region withdrew a separate action for €2.3 million against the Company. On June 17, 2008, the European Commission launched a further investigation into Ryanair’s agreements at Frankfurt (Hahn) airport, which is a significant base for Ryanair. The European Commission announced in a public statement that its initial investigation had found that the airport might have acted like a private market investor but that it had insufficient evidence to reach a conclusion and therefore had elected to open a formal investigation. The formal investigation is ongoing and is expected to last approximately 18 months. Ryanair is also facing legal challenges with respect to similar agreements with certain other airports. Ryanair believes that the positive decision by the CFI in the Charleroi case will cause the Commission to rethink its policy in this area. However, adverse rulings in the Frankfurt (Hahn) or similar cases could be used as precedents by competitors to challenge Ryanair’s agreements with other publicly owned airports and could cause Ryanair to strongly reconsider its growth strategy in relation to public or state-owned airports across Europe. This could in turn lead to a scaling-back of Ryanair’s overall growth strategy due to the smaller number of privately owned airports available for development. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of legal proceedings, nor as to whether any unfavorable outcomes may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the results of operation or financial condition of the Company. For additional information, please see “Item 8. Financial Information—Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” The Company Faces Significant Price and Other Pressures in a Highly Competitive Environment. Ryanair operates in a highly competitive marketplace, with a number of new entrants, traditional airlines, and charter airlines competing throughout the route network. Airlines compete primarily with respect to fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, name recognition, passenger amenities (such as access to frequent flyer programs), and the availability and convenience of other passenger services. Unlike Ryanair, certain of Ryanair’s competitors are state-owned or state-controlled flag carriers and in some cases may have greater name recognition and resources and may have received, or may receive in the future, significant amounts of subsidies and other state aid from their respective governments. In addition, the EU-U.S. Open Skies Agreement, which was signed in April 2007 and entered into effect in March 2008, allows U.S. carriers to offer services in the intra-EU market, which should eventually result in increased competition. See “