D. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company does not currently anticipate will be material, may impair the Company’s business operations and its operating results and as a result could materially impact its business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The auditors’ report on our consolidated financial statements includes comments for U.S. readers on Canada-U.S. reporting differences and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements outlines factors that cast substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. The continuing operations of the Company are dependent upon its ability to continue to raise adequate financing and to generate profitable operations for the future. Management is continuing to target sources of additional financing as well as other business and financial transactions to assume continuance of the Company’s operations. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in raising additional cash to finance operations or that the continued support of creditors and shareholders will be available. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. We may be delisted from the American Stock Exchange (AMEX). On February 10, 2004, we had received notice from AMEX indicating that we were in breach of AMEX’s continued listing standards of maintaining a shareholders’ equity value greater than US$2,000,000 and sustaining losses in two of our three most recent fiscal years; and in breach of maintaining a shareholders’ equity value greater than US$4,000,000 and sustaining losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three out of our four most recent fiscal years, all as set forth in Section 1003(a)(i) and Section 1003 (a)(ii), respectively, of the AMEX Company Guide. Over the past three fiscal years we have increased our shareholders’ equity through a combination of an equity issuance of both common and preferred shares. At August 31, 2006, the total of our shareholders’ equity was $21,760,000 (US$19,687,000), thereby complying with the AMEX listing standard of maintaining equity greater than US$4,000,000. There is no guarantee that we will be able to continue reporting profitability and that our shareholders’ equity will not decrease again below the AMEX threshold amount. If we incur losses and the losses are significant enough that our shareholders’ equity value declines 7 below the AMEX threshold we could, once again, be in breach of the AMEX listing requirements, which could result in our shares being delisted from the AMEX. We have had losses, and we cannot assure future profitability. We cannot assure you we will be able to operate profitably. In three of our last five years we have reported losses. We would have recognized losses in the last five fiscal years absent gains on settlement of obligations. As of August 31, 2006 we had an accumulated deficit of $8,683,000. If we continue to have losses in the future, we may not be able to generate positive cash flows sufficient to finance continuing activities. Our inability to meet those needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on factors in the motion picture and television industry. The business of producing and distributing film and television programming is highly competitive and involves a substantial degree of risk. Revenues derived from the production and distribution of film and television programming depend primarily upon acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Each film and television program is an individual artistic work, and unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. Generally, the popularity of our productions depends on many factors, including the critical acclaim they receive, the actors and other key talent, their genre and their specific subject matter. The commercial success of our productions also depends upon the quality and acceptance of productions that our competitors release into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangi ble and intangible factors, many of which we do not control and all of which may change. We cannot predict the future effects of these factors with certainty, any of which factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some or all of our proprietary film and television programs may not be commercially successful, resulting in our failure to recoup its investment or realize its anticipated profits. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly. Results of operations for any period depend on a number of factors such as on the number of film and television programs that are delivered, the price at which we are able to sell them and when the cost of the productions are within budget. Consequently, results may vary from period to period, and the results of any one period may not indicate results for future periods. In particular, results of operations in any period depend to a large extent upon our production and delivery schedule for television programs and motion pictures. As a result of the production cycle, our revenues are not recognized evenly throughout any given year. Cash flows may also fluctuate and may not directly correspond with revenue recognition. Our business requires a substantial investment of capital. Our ability to maintain and expand our development, production and distribution of proprietary programming and to cover our general and administrative expenses depends upon our ability to obtain financing through equity financing, debt financing (including credit facilities) or the sale or syndication of some or all of our interests in certain projects or other assets. If our access to existing credit facilities is not available, and if other funding does not become available to replace existing credit facilities should they not be available, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to risks associated with possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures. From time to time we engage in discussions and activities with respect to possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our business. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Regardless of whether we consummate any such transaction as well as the integration of the acquired business could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. Events and circumstances subsequent to such transaction could also result in impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 We may be unable to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the assessment by us of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our assessment may identify material weaknesses and may result in an attestation with an adverse opinion from our auditors, each of which could adversely affect our reputation and share price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and related regulations presently requires that for the year ended December 15, 2008, we will be required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our auditors attest to such evaluations on an annual basis. We have been and still are evaluating our internal control systems to allow our management to report on, and our auditors to attest to our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses in fiscal 2006 and a diversion of our management’s time. There can be no assurance that we will complete the necessary work to comply with all aspects of Section 404 and related regulations in a timely manner. Weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting may cause us to be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements in a timely manner. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting identifies material weaknesses that must be disclosed, we may receive an attestation with an adverse opinion from our auditors as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, potential acquisitions of businesses that are currently not in compliance with Section 404 requirements could lead to disclosures on currently unforeseen deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. This could adversely affect our ability to comply with business combinations accounting procedures in preparing our consolidated f inancial results. Each of these consequences could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and negatively affect the price of our shares. While we believe that we will be able to meet the required deadlines, no assurance can be given that this will be the case. If we fail to complete this evaluation within the required time frame, or fail to remedy any identified material weakness or if our auditors render an adverse attestation, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence in our internal controls. All of these factors may cause our stock price to decline. The potential for budget overruns and other production risks are difficult to predict. Actual production costs may exceed budget, perhaps significantly, due to factors within or beyond our control. These factors may delay or prevent completion of a production. If there are significant cost overruns, we may have to seek additional financing to complete the production. Financing on terms acceptable to us may not be available. We may be unable to recoup the additional costs, which could have a material adverse impact on operating results and liquidity. Productions are bonded and, if necessary, calling upon the bonder to complete can mitigate any significant cost overrun or risk of completion. We rely on a few key customers. Our revenue is generated in part due to production activities in numerous countries. We have several primary customers who purchase distribution rights to the filmed product we sell. We also have several large customers through which we distribute our home entertainment product. In the year ended August 31, 2006, one customer represented approximately 25% of total revenues, a second customer represented approximately 9% of total revenues and a third customer represented approximately 5% of total revenues and two customers collectively represented approximately 8% of total revenues. Sales of outstanding shares may hurt our stock price. Our current shareholders hold a substantial number of shares. We filed a registration statement which was declared effective on November 2, 2006 on Form F-3 to register an aggregate of 36,061,540 shares of common shares on behalf 9 of certain shareholders of the Company. The sale of these shares could cause the trading price of our stock to substantially decline. In addition, such sales may create the perception by the public of difficulties or problems with our products and services or management. Sales of these shares could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. The Preference Shares have priority over the Common Shares of the Company The Company has 4,347,807 Series I and 2,661,929 Series II Preference Shares outstanding as of August 31, 2006 and the Company has the ability to issue additional Preference Shares. The Preference Shares shall be entitled to priority over the Common Shares and over any other shares of the Company ranking junior to the Preference Shares with respect to the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, or any other distribution of the assets of the Company among its shareholders for the purpose of winding up its affairs. Management’s forecasts for future revenues supporting film book values may not be achieved. Investments in film and television programming are amortized against revenues in the ratio that current revenues bear to management’s estimate of ultimate revenues for each program pursuant to the Statement of Position (“SOP-002”) issued by the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. As a result of our policy we typically amortize a minimum of 80% of the costs over a three-year period. Management periodically reviews its estimates and adjusts the amortization of our programming accordingly. In the event that management should determine that the capitalized costs for a program exceed its fair value, capitalized costs would be written down in the current period, resulting in a corresponding decrease in earnings. We could lose certain benefits by failing to meet certain government incentive programs We currently finance a portion of our production budgets through Canadian and United States government agencies and incentive programs, including federal and provincial tax credits, as well as through similar international arrangements in the case of our international co-productions. These tax credits combined can represent approximately 20% of an individual production budget. We will continue to qualify for these tax credits if, among other things, Canadians beneficially own or control a majority of the voting rights of the Company. If Canadians fail to beneficially own or control a majority of our voting rights at any time, we could lose such tax incentives and the costs of our productions would increase substantially. Canadian law requires Canadian conventional, specialty, pay and pay-per-view television services to devote a certain amount of their programming schedules, including prime time, to Canadian productions. If we fail to qualify as a Canadian producer, it would be more difficult to obtain time slots in Canada for our programming, a "slot" being a broadcast time period for a program. We believe we will continue to qualify as a Canadian producer for this purpose as long as, among other things, Canadians beneficially own or control a majority of our voting rights. These incentive programs, including federal and provincial tax credit programs, may be amended or eliminated in the future, which could result in a material increase in the effective cost of our productions. The loss or elimination of these tax and business incentives would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are smaller and less diversified than many of our competitors. Although we are an independent distributor and producer, we compete with major U.S. and international studios. Most of the major U.S. studios are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both means of distributing their products and stable sources of earnings that may allow them better to offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their film and television operations. In addition, the major studios have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, directors and other personnel required for production. The resources of the major studios may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we 10 might also be interested in acquiring. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues and results of operations are vulnerable to currency fluctuations. The Company receives a portion of its revenues from U.S. and international sources in U.S. dollars while its operating costs and production costs of film and television programming is primarily denominated in Canadian dollars. Accordingly, results of operations can be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar exchange rate. The results of these fluctuations may be material. To date, we have not entered into any material currency hedging instruments. In addition, the Company has not maintained significant amounts of U.S. dollar balances in order to reduce the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to interest rate fluctuations. The Company borrows funds from banks and other financial institutions to finance the production costs of its film and television programming that is generally incurred in advance of contracted receipts and revenues from these programs. These loans usually bear interest at rates that change as market interest rates fluctuate. A rise in interest rates would cause an increase in costs to produce film and television programs and an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the services of certain key personnel, particularly Gary Howsam, our Chief Executive Officer. Because we are a relatively small company, these members of management are involved in many aspects of the production process and virtually all significant decisions are made or significantly influenced by these individuals. The loss of the services of any one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have obtained and intend to maintain "key man" life insurance coverage with respect to these personnel, there is no assurance that the proceeds would be sufficient to compensate fully for the loss of the services of any of these individuals if they were to die. The loss of services of any of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. The film and television programming produced by us generally employ actors, writers and directors who are members of the Screen Actors Guild, Writers Guild of America and Directors Guild of America, respectively, pursuant to industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement with the Writers Guild of America was successfully renegotiated and became effective as of November 1, 2004 for a term of three years. The collective bargaining agreements with the Screen Actors Guild and Directors Guild of America were each successfully renegotiated and became effective as of July 1, 2005 for a term of three years. Many productions also employ members of a number of other unions, including, without limitation, the International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees, the Teamsters and the Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio Artists. A strike by one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of motion pictures or television programs could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. Such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in our release of new motion pictures and television programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Piracy of motion pictures, including digital and internet piracy may reduce the gross receipts from the exploitation of our films. Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world, including South America, Asia, the countries of the former Soviet Union and other former Eastern bloc countries. Additionally, as motion pictures begin to be digitally distributed using emerging technologies such as the Internet and online services, piracy could become more prevalent, including in the U.S., because digital formats are easier to copy. As a result, users can download and distribute 11 unauthorized copies of copyrighted motion pictures over the Internet. In addition, there could be increased use of devices capable of making unauthorized copies of motion pictures. As long as pirated content is available to download digitally, many consumers may choose to download such pirated motion pictures rather than pay for motion pictures. Piracy of our films may adversely impact the gross receipts received from the exploitation of these films, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We face additional risks from doing business internationally. We distribute our film and television programming outside the United States and Canada through third party licensees and derive revenues from these sources. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the currency fluctuation risks described above, these additional risks include: changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content; changes in the laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes (including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and to withholding taxes); differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; instability of foreign economies and governments; cultural barriers; and wars and acts of terrorism. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Protecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property. We do not have the financial resources to protect our rights to the same extent as major studios. We attempt to protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries. We also distribute our products in other countries in which there is no copyright and trademark protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or certain portions or applications of our intended productions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of op erations or financial condition. Litigation may also be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot assure you that infringement or invalidity claims will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of these claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because we are a Canadian corporation, it may be difficult to sue us or to enforce a judgment against us We are a Canadian corporation with our principal place of business in Toronto, Ontario. Substantially all of our directors and executive officers and some of the experts named in this report are not residents of the U.S. and virtually all of the assets of these persons and substantially all of our assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible for you to serve summons and complaints within the U.S. upon these persons or upon us. Similarly, it may not be possible to enforce in U.S. courts, against such persons or against us, judgments of U.S. courts based upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult in Canadian courts for you, in original suits or in suits for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, to enforce civil liabilities based upon U.S. federal or state securities laws against us or our directors or executiv e officers, or our experts. We have appointed National Registered Agents, Inc. of Washington, D.C., to act as agent for service of process in any action in any U.S. federal or state court brought against us under the securities laws of the U.S. 12 