D. Risk Factors - Regulatory changes or enforcement initiatives could adversely affect our business.” Focus areas In 2006 Group Compliance has explicitly focused on the following areas: Compliance Risk Assessment & Monitoring The global implementation of Compliance Risk Assessment & Monitoring is an ambitious and challenging undertaking for ABN AMRO. All jurisdictions worldwide face heightened levels of compliance risk, as the regulatory framework and burden continues to grow in both volume and complexity. Compliance Risk Management will assist the bank’s BUs in identifying, assessing and managing their respective compliance risks. Mindset Programme Wave II: ‘Our values in action: acting with integrity’ The focus of our ‘Mindset’ programme has continued to raise awareness and strengthen the global compliance mindset throughout the bank. Senior management’s involvement in setting the right tone from the top and communicating the importance of compliance to all staff is paying off. Client acceptance and anti-money laundering The Client Acceptance and Anti-Money Laundering (CAAML) policy contains the philosophy and approach to our Know Your Client (KYC) controls, with which we combat money laundering and terrorist financing. ABN AMRO aims to be at the forefront of anti-money laundering efforts around the world. Our highly-developed transaction monitoring system enables the bank to monitor and test transactions for their compliance with anti-money laundering legislation in over 50 countries. The implementation of the global Anti-Money Laundering Oversight Committee puts in place a solid governance structure to steer ABN AMRO’s anti-money laundering agenda. A bank-wide client risk reassessment project was conducted in 2006 to ensure that, on a risk-based approach, all the bank’s clients comply with the relevant client due diligence requirements. 38 Group Security Group Security contributes to a secure environment across ABN AMRO by developing global policies and standards for promoting physical security and preventing financial crime, delivering input and operational services to support the business’ commercial and strategic decisions, and investigating serious security incidents and compliance breaches. By acting in partnership with the business, Group Security provides a security framework and related services that enable the business to take ownership of its security responsibilities. Sustainable development To create sustainable value for all our stakeholders, we run our business responsibly. This means behaving with integrity and openness, and taking environmental, social and ethical issues into account. This approach helps us to build and sustain the trust that underpins our license to operate, and enables us to be a valued business partner for our clients. In 2006 we intensified our sustainability-related activities by focusing on providing responsible financial services, building employee engagement, protecting our assets, being accountable and transparent, minimizing our direct impact and supporting local communities. We discuss our approach to sustainability in our Sustainability Report, which is published alongside the Annual Report, or at www.abnamro.com. General Competition In each of our markets we operate in a highly competitive environment. Many large financial services groups offer sophisticated banking or investment banking services to corporate and institutional customers on a global basis. In addition, in the national markets in which we operate, we compete with local banks and other financial services companies. We also compete with other banks, money market funds and mutual funds for deposits and other sources of funds. In certain jurisdictions, many of our competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions to which we are subject. See also “Item 3. Key Information - D. Risk factors - Our performance is subject to substantial competitive pressures that could adversely affect our results of operations.” Our Employees As at 31 December 2006, we had 106,999 full-time equivalent employees (excluding the consolidation impact of private equity investments under IFRS), an increase of 14,473 since 31 December 2005. Approximately 10% of these employees hold managerial and executive positions. A breakdown of employees by business unit as of 31 December 2006, 2005 and 2004 is set forth in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - A. Operating results”. All of our employees in the Netherlands, other than senior management, are covered by one collective labor agreement which is periodically renegotiated. We have not experienced any significant strike, work stoppage or labor dispute in recent years. Our management considers our relations with our employees to be good. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION Regulation in the Netherlands General Holding and its subsidiaries, on a worldwide basis, are regulated in the Netherlands by the Dutch Central Bank and the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets, or “AFM”. The bank regulatory system in the Netherlands is a comprehensive system based on the provisions of the new Financial Supervision Act, the “FSA”, which came into effect per January 1, 2007. The FSA has replaced, among others, the Act on the Supervision of the Credit System 1992 without affecting the existing supervisory system. The FSA gives rules regarding prudential supervision (by the Dutch Central Bank) and supervision of conduct (by the 39 AFM). Prudential supervision focuses on the solidity of financial undertakings and contributes to the stability of the financial sector. Supervision of conduct focuses on orderly and transparent financial market processes, clear relations between market parties and due care in the treatment of clients (amongst which supervision of the securities and investment businesses). The Bank is a “universal bank” under the terms of the FSA because it is engaged in the banking business as well as the securities business. Certain provisions of the FSA may restrict the Bank’s ability to make capital contributions or loans to its subsidiaries and to make dividends and distributions to Holding. Supervision of credit institutions In general, under the FSA, credit institutions are supervised by the Dutch Central Bank. No enterprise or institution established in the Netherlands may pursue the business of a credit institution unless it has obtained prior authorization from the Dutch Central Bank. Its supervisory activities under the FSA focus on supervision of solvency, liquidity and administrative organization, including internal control and risk management. If, in the opinion of the Dutch Central Bank, a credit institution fails to comply with the rules and regulations concerning solvency, liquidity or administrative organization, the Dutch Central Bank will so notify the credit institution, and it may instruct the credit institution to behave in a certain manner. If the credit institution does not respond to any such instructions to the satisfaction of the Dutch Central Bank, the Dutch Central Bank may exercise additional supervisory measures, which may include the imposition of fines. The FSA provides that each supervised credit institution must submit periodic reports to the Dutch Central Bank. In accordance therewith the Bank files monthly reports with the Dutch Central Bank. At least one monthly report for each given year must be certified by a registered accountant. The report to be certified is selected by the registered accountant in his or her discretion. Solvency supervision The solvency rules require that we maintain a minimum level of total capital to support the risk-weighted total value of balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet items, the latter of which includes guarantees, documentary credits, certain interest and currency-related contracts, unused portions of committed credit facilities with an original maturity of over one year, note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities, as well as the market risk for financial instruments in the trading book. This minimum level of total capital is the Capital Adequacy Ratio. The risk-weighting considers the debtor’s risk, which depends on the debtor’s classification, whether or not security is provided, and the country of origin of the debtor. The legally required minimum Capital Adequacy Ratio currently is 8.00%, however, in practice a minimum ratio of 10% is agreed with the Dutch Central Bank. The solvency rules are applied to the world-wide assets of Dutch credit institutions. For our company, total capital consists of core capital (also referred to as Tier 1 capital) and secondary capital (also referred to as Tier 2 capital). We also are permitted to maintain an additional form of regulatory capital, Tier 3 capital, to support the market risks of financial instruments in our trading book and foreign exchange risk of all business activities. Tier 1 capital consists of those parts of shareholders’ equity and minority interests that qualify as Tier 1 capital and subordinated liabilities that qualify as Tier 1 capital. Secondary or Tier 2 capital is divided into upper Tier 2 capital and lower Tier 2 capital. Upper Tier 2 capital consists of revaluation reserves and perpetual subordinated liabilities; lower Tier 2 capital consists mainly of long-term subordinated liabilities. Tier 3 capital consists of subordinated liabilities that have a minimum original maturity of at least two years, are not subject to redemption prior to maturity without the prior written consent of the Dutch Central Bank (other than in the event of a winding-up of the Bank) and are subject to a provision which provides that neither interest nor principal may be paid if, prior to or as a result of such payment, our Capital Adequacy Ratio would be less than the required minimum. The amount of lower Tier 2 capital may not exceed 50% of the amount of Tier 1 capital, and the amount of Tier 2 capital included in total capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. In addition, Tier 3 capital may not exceed 250% of the amount of Tier 1 capital that is necessary to support market and foreign exchange risks and the sum of Tier 2 and Tier 3 capital may not exceed Tier 1 capital. Goodwill and interests of more than 10% in non-consolidated banking and financial subsidiaries must be deducted from Tier 1 capital and total capital, respectively. 40 See “Item 3. Key Information - Selected financial data - Selected ratios” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - B. Liquidity and capital resources” for information concerning the Bank’s capital ratios. Capital adequacy framework (Basel II) On 26 June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision endorsed the publication of the ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: a Revised Framework’, commonly referred to as Basel II. The Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), representing the translation of Basel II to EU legislation and replacing the Capital Adequacy Directive (CAD), was approved by the European Parliament in September 2005. This acceptance by the European Parliament cleared the way in Europe for the implementation of the CRD, with a published compliance date of 1 January 2008. The implementation process of Basel II into Dutch legislation and regulations was completed on 22 December 2006 when the Dutch Central Bank published its Supervisory rules. Basel II allows for several different approaches to implement requirements for Credit, Market and Operational Risk. ABN AMRO aims to implement the most advanced approaches, for all risk types, at the earliest opportunity. In setting up our Basel II programme, the teams across Risk, Finance, Services and the BUs have evolved as the implementation ramped up. Our key focus areas in 2006 included: · validation of risk models; · integration of granular risk and finance information relating the bank’s portfolios; and · development of tools for calculating credit risk-weighted assets. At the heart of Basel II is a series of best practice risk and capital management techniques that are the embodiment of ABN AMRO’s existing approach to risk and capital management. Exposure supervision The Dutch Central Bank has issued specific rules with respect to large exposures to a single borrower or group of interconnected borrowers or in relation to certain other businesses that involve a concentration of risk. Large exposures generally include all assets and off-balance sheet items of a credit institution with respect to a single borrower or a group of connected borrowers which exceed 10% of a credit institution’s total capital. Large exposures must be reported once every quarter to the Dutch Central Bank. There is a limit of 25% of total capital for a single large exposure being part of the banking book. Trading book positions may exceed this limit subject to additional solvency requirements. The aggregate amount of all large exposures of a credit institution may not exceed 800% of its total capital. In 2006, there were no exposures exceeding these thresholds. In addition, under the Solvency rules, certain other exposures are limited as a percentage of total capital as follows: exposures to the Dutch central government, the Dutch local government and other central governments of the so-called “Zone A” countries1 , which include the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries, have no limit; exposures to local governments of Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development countries are weighted at 50%; exposures to banks with a remaining maturity of up to or less than one year or more than one year are weighted at 20% and 50%, respectively; and exposures to others are weighted at 100%. Equity participations in insurance companies are exempt up to a level of 40% of total capital of the credit institution. Facilities and loans to, and investments in, non-banks by credit institutions of 1% or more of total capital must be registered with the Dutch Central Bank. For banks, the threshold is 3% of total capital. Regulations of the Dutch Central Bank also bar a credit institution from lending (on either a secured or an unsecured basis) more than the lesser of 5% of its total capital and, if the loan is unsecured, five times the monthly salary for the borrower to any director or member of senior management of the credit institution without the prior approval of the Dutch Central Bank. Liquidity supervision The bank submits reports on its liquidity position on a monthly basis to the Dutch Central Bank, based on its liquidity supervision directive. The liquidity directive seeks to ensure that banks are in a position to cope with an 1 The Member States of the European Community and all other countries which are full members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the countries which have concluded special borrowing arrangements with the International Monetary Fund associated with the International Monetary Fund’s General Arrangements to Borrow are considered “Zone A” countries. However, a country in the process of rescheduling its official external debt is excluded from this group for a period of five years. The “Zone A” countries currently comprise: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cyprus,Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United States and the United Kingdom. 41 acute short-term liquidity shortage under the assumption that banks would remain solvent. The bank is required to report the group’s liquidity position at consolidated level. In principle, the Dutch Central Bank liquidity directive covers all direct domestic and foreign establishments (subsidiaries/branches), including majority participations. Liquidity effects from off-balance sheet items, such as derivatives and irrevocable commitments, are measured in the liquidity report. The directive places great emphasis on the short term in testing the liquidity position over a period of up to one month with a separate test of the liquidity position in the first week. For observation purposes, several additional maturity bands are included in the liquidity report (one to three months, three to six months and six months to one year). The available liquidity must always exceed required liquidity. Available liquidity and required liquidity are calculated by applying weighting factors to the relevant on- and off-balance sheet items. The liquidity test includes all currencies. Compliance reports concerning liquidity requirements of foreign subsidiaries are submitted to appropriate foreign regulatory authorities as required. At consolidated level and in every country in which we operate, the Group adheres to the liquidity standards imposed by the applicable regulatory authorities. Structural supervision A declaration of no-objection from the Dutch Central Bank (or in certain specified cases from the Dutch Minister of Finance), is required for certain changes in the structure of credit institutions, such as mergers, certain investments, the addition of a managing partner to the credit institution, repayments of capital or distribution of reserves of the credit institution and financial reorganization. Approval will be denied if, among other things, the Dutch Central Bank determines that sound banking policy may be jeopardized, that an undesirable development in the financial sector might result or that a conflict might arise in respect of certain solvency directives. Pursuant to the FSA, a declaration of no-objection is required for a participation by a credit institution of at least 10% in the issued share capital or the related voting rights (each, a “Qualifying Participation”), or the increase thereof, of a financial institution, such as a credit institution, or a non-financial institution, and, either (i) in case of a financial institution, if the total capital of such financial institution would exceed 1% of the credit institution’s consolidated balance sheet total or (ii) in case of a non-financial institution, if the consideration for the Qualifying Participations exceeds 1% of the credit institution’s consolidated equity. The Dutch Central Bank or the Dutch Minister of Finance can, on request, grant so-called bandwidths, umbrella and group-declarations of no-objection in respect of Qualifying Participations. The declaration of no-objection is not required in case of a Qualifying Participation by a credit institution in a company whose assets consist of more than 90% liquid assets. Furthermore, the FSA provides that a declaration of no-objection is required in case of a Qualifying Participation by a natural person or legal entity in a credit institution. The Dutch Central Bank together with the Dutch Minister of Finance has developed a “structural policy” for equity participations by credit institutions in non-financial institutions. Under this policy an equity participation is not allowed if the value of the participation would exceed 15% of a credit institution’s total capital or if the participation would cause the value of the credit institution’s aggregate Qualifying Participations in non-financial institutions to exceed 60% of its total capital. Certain types of participations will be approved in principle, although in certain circumstances a declaration of no-objection will have a limited period of validity, such as, in the case of a debt rescheduling or rescue operation or when the participation is acquired and held as part of an issue underwriting operation. The approval generally will be given where the value of the non-financial institution concerned or the value of the participation does not exceed certain threshold amounts. Supervision of the securities and investment businesses The Bank is also subject to supervision of its activities in the securities business. The FSA, which has replaced the Act on the Supervision of the Securities Trade 1995 together with the decrees and regulations promulgated thereunder, provides a comprehensive framework for the conduct of securities trading in or from the Netherlands. The AFM is charged by the Dutch Minister of Finance with supervision of the securities industry. The Bank and/or certain subsidiaries of the Bank are also active as managers and/or custodians of collective investment plans, which comprise both investment funds and investment companies. Collective investment plans are subject to supervision by the Dutch Central Bank and the AFM. 42 Regulation in the European Union The Financial Services Action Plan 1999-2005 laid the foundations for a single financial market in the EU and has already brought about many changes with 42 legislative and non-legislative measures adopted by the EU Institutions. In its future strategy on Financial Services for 2005-2010, the European Commission set out its objectives to achieve an integrated, and competitive EU financial market by removing any remaining barriers so that financial services can be provided and capital can circulate freely throughout the EU at the lowest possible cost, resulting in high levels of financial stability, consumer benefits and consumer protection. The financial services sector includes three major areas for which European regulatory policies apply: banking, capital markets, and asset management. EU initiatives also deal with a number of issues related to company and corporate governance. The Codified Banking Directive (2006/48/EC) for credit institutions and banking services governs the free provision of banking services. Under this Directive, the Bank can offer banking on the basis of a single banking license (“European passport”) through the establishment of a branch or cross-border in all the EU countries. In September 2006 the European Commission proposed a review of one specific article of the Codified Banking Directive with regards to procedural rules and evaluation criteria for the prudential assessment of acquisitions and increase of shareholding in the financial sector (the so-called prudential carve out of article 16). It aims at tightening the procedures that the supervisory authorities have to follow when assessing proposed M&A in the banking, insurance and securities sectors. In particular, it clarifies the criteria against which supervisors should assess possible M&A operations. The Directive 2006/48 is also the legal vehicle which implements the Basel II framework into EU Law (the Capital Requirements Directive). The Capital Requirements Directive is based on a three pillars structure (minimum capital requirements, a supervisory review process and market discipline) with the aim of creating a better risk-sensitive regime than the current system. Financial Institutions are to apply the capital requirements with adopting the most advanced approaches with a published compliance deadline of 1 January 2008. In the area of securities legislation, the Market Abuse Directive prohibits market manipulation and insider dealing in all securities admitted to trading on an EU regulated market. The Prospectus Directive regulates the process and the disclosure requirements for public offerings in and admissions to trading on an EU regulated market of securities, and allows European public offerings with one single prospectus. The Transparency Directive harmonizes the transparency requirements for information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on an EU regulated market. The other important piece of legislation in this area is the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), which has to be implemented by financial institutions as of November 1, 2007. It regulates the cross-border provision of investment services and regulated markets and replaces the 1993 Investment Services Directive which established the single passport for investment firms. It streamlines supervision on the basis of home country control and enhances the transparency of markets. It harmonizes conduct of business rules, including best execution, conflicts of interests and client order handling rules. The Directive abolishes the concentration rule, which leads towards a more competitive regime between order execution venues. It also regulates market transparency rules for investment firms, regulated markets and alternative trading systems and both pre and post-trade but only for shares. In the post-trading field, the European Commission has pushed the industry to agree on a clearing and settlement Code of Conduct, signed by the stock exchanges on November 2006. The Code aims at enhancing transparency and increasing competition in the post-trading sector. Likewise, political initiatives in the area of retail financial services and payment services have been launched. Currently, the revised proposal for a Directive on Consumer Credit (latest proposal published in October 2006) is being discussed in the EU. The proposed Directive introduces consumer protection provisions and at the same time aims at the creation of a single market for consumer credit in the EU. In December 2005, a Directive was proposed on a new legal framework for payment services, which will harmonize rules with regard to payments licensing, transparency conditions, information requirements and rights and obligations linked to the provision and use of payment services. 43 In the area of asset management, the EU has enacted legislation on pension and investment products. On investment funds, there are two ‘UCITS Directives’, the first regulating the product (e.g., types of assets in which to invest) and the second one giving management companies a “European passport” to operate throughout the EU. The Commission will come up with proposals for legislative amendments in autumn 2007 to do targeted changes to the current EU framework for investment funds. In the field of supplementary pensions, a Directive has liberalized the market for supplementary pension schemes by allowing pension providers to operate on an EU-wide basis and establishing “prudent person principles” for asset allocation. By December 2007, Member States will have to implement the third Money Laundering Directive into national law. The aim of the Directive is to transpose the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF) forty recommendations. It follows a risk-based approach by which all measures aimed at preventing money laundering must be applied on a proportionate basis, depending on the type of customer, business and other considerations. As of January 1, 2007, the Regulation which transposes the FATF Special Recommendation VII (SR VII) on “wire transfers” into EU legislation has come into force. It lays down rules on information on the payer accompanying transfers of funds, in order to allow basic information to be immediately available to the authorities responsible for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Applicable from September 2007, the Data Retention Directive will require electronic communications providers to store data on phone-calls, e-mails and Internet use for a period between 6 and 24 months to help track down terrorism and organized crime. In the field of Company Law and Corporate Governance, the two main guiding principles for EU legislative actions are to improve transparency and empower shareholders. Soft law instruments have been used to promote good corporate governance (e.g. corporate governance codes). To improve transparency in company accounts, the European Commission adopted recommendations on Directors’ Remuneration and role of non-executive or supervisory directors with a view to improving the on-going disclosure requirements for listed companies. In order to restore credibility of financial reporting and to enhance protection against the type of scandals involving Parmalat and Ahold, the Directive on statutory audit (2006/43) designed to strengthen corporate governance and auditor responsibilities was adopted and should be implemented into national law by June 2008. It aims at reinforcing and harmonizing the statutory audit function throughout the EU by setting out principles for public supervision in all Member States. It also introduces a requirement for external quality assurance and clarifies the duties of statutory auditors. In June 2006, the EU adopted a Directive (2006/46) which amends existing Accounting Directives to ensure collective board members responsibility and more disclosure on related-parties transactions, off-balance sheet vehicles and corporate governance. The Second Company Law Directive (2006/68) covering the formation, maintenance and alteration of capital was amended in September 2006 in order for public limited companies to take certain measures affecting the size, structure and ownership of their capital. Finally, the European Commission has presented in January 2006 a proposal on the exercise of shareholders’ rights, which mainly seeks to abolish share blocking, improve the flow and transparency of the information and remove all legal obstacles to electronic participation in general meetings. This new Directive on shareholders rights is expected to be adopted by the European Council in the second quarter of 2007. Regulation in the United States The Bank’s operations in the United States are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by both federal and state banking authorities. The Bank is a bank holding company within the meaning of the US Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, which restricts its non-banking activities in the United States. However, Holding elected to become a financial holding company on 11 March 2000. See also “- Legal and regulatory proceedings,” below, and “Item 3. Key Information - D. Risk factors - Regulatory changes or enforcement initiatives could adversely affect our business” and “—We are subject to legal risk, which may have an adverse impact on our results.” Regulation in the rest of the world Our operations elsewhere in the world are subject to regulation and control by local supervisory authorities, and our offices, branches and subsidiaries in such jurisdictions are subject to certain reserve, reporting and control and other requirements imposed by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities. 44 Legal and regulatory proceedings We are involved in a number of legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. Some of these proceedings involve the risk of a material adverse impact on our financial performance or stockholders’ equity. In presenting our consolidated financial statements, management makes estimates regarding the outcome of legal, regulatory and arbitration matters, and takes a charge to income when losses with respect to such matters are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Charges, other than those taken periodically for costs of defense, are not established for matters when losses cannot be reasonably estimated. We cannot guarantee that these proceedings will be concluded in a manner favorable to us and should our assessment of the risk change, our view on changes to income will also change. See also “Item 3. Key Information - D. Risk factors - Regulatory changes or enforcement initiatives could adversely affect our business” and “—We are subject to legal risk, which may have an adverse impact on our results.” Regulatory sanctions As previously reported, in July 2004 we signed a Written Agreement with the US regulatory authorities concerning our dollar clearing activities in the New York branch. In December 2005, we agreed to a Cease and Desist Order with the Dutch Central Bank, theReserve Board, the US Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and the Financial Crime Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”), the State of Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation and the New York State Banking Department. This involved an agreement to pay an aggregate civil penalty of USD 75 million (approximately EUR 62.5 million). In addition, ABN AMRO agreed to make a voluntary endowment of USD 5 million (approximately EUR 4 million) to the Illinois Bank Examiners’ Education Foundation, bringing the total amount related to this sanction to USD 80 million (approximately EUR 66.5 million). Furthermore, the Bank committed to continue to implement improvements in its oversight and compliance programs. See “